ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] (a) in the draft Budget expenditure of the Parliament for the financial year 2020, (b) in Parliament's Expenditure Report, financial year 2018. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure presents its report to the proposal of the President of the Greek Parliament "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Part II and Part Parliament". The Standing Committees on Economic Affairs and Social Affairs present their report on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring (a) from 25.9.2019 B.N.P. ‘Urgent provision for exemption from the obligation to pay the residence tax’ (A'142), (b) of 30-9-2019 P.N.A. (c) from 4-10-2019 B.N. ‘Urgent arrangements of responsibility of the Ministry of Health (A150) and other provisions’. I also have the honour to announce to the House the Thursday's topical and urgent question, 14-11-2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Cycle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies) 1. The 193/11-11-2019 topical question of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodorou Dricas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The abolition of the Unified Administrative Sector (EDF) of the Ministry of Defence". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Evangelia Lykoulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The bureaucratic strangles, an obstacle to the brown production of Kissavos." 3. The Question No 211/12-11-2019 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Releases of five workers from the group "Selonda Fish farms S.A.". 4. The 188/6-11-2019 topical question by the MEP of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos Villardou to the Minister of National Defence, on "ELBO re-enactment". 5. The 189/7-11-2019 topical question by H' Vice-Chairman of Parliament of the South Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafa to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Deathly working accident in LARCO'. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies) 1. The 202/11-11-2019 topical question by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Announcement of a document 2016 on the employment of pensioners of NAT in AEN". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 213/12-11-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Reimbursement of oil producers and setting up a Scientific Committee". 3. The 212-12-11-2019 topical question by MP B3 South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Illegal operation of the PHARMALINE S.A. warehouse" based in Koropi, 2° Km. Markopoulos Avenue (industrial zone)’. 4. The 203/12-11-2019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for the Interior, on the subject: "Financing the City of Petroupolis". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Amendments to Criminal Code, Code of Criminal Procedure and related provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 7 November 2019 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform, in principle, of articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th Primary School of Brussels. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The registration will be done electronically. The registration time will be opened as soon as Mr. Constantinidis comes to Step and close as soon as Mr. Spyridon Lappas comes down from Step. I should like to ask the Bureau if any of the Members of Parliament have a roll-call vote in mind, in a way that we should know in time for the service to be prepared, that all Members of this House be prepared, particularly because of the time being.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u4	Before calling Mr Constantinidis in Step, I will give the floor to the Minister for some legislative amendments. You have three minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, after a great effort, we come to the Plenary Assembly of the Greek Parliament in order to legislate on changes in the Criminal Code. Obviously, I do not need to repeat what we have said too many times. The previous government strongly, one day before the Greek Parliament actually closed down to lead us to the national elections, legislated on the Criminal Code, creating many ambiguities, many concerns and, of course, giving the opportunity to produce results that were largely discussed by a large part of Greek society. The New Democracy has always been present in the dialogue during the discussion of the upcoming changes. In fact, it was in the general spirit that a modern Criminal Code should be in line with European data. Obviously, it must be directed towards a reasonable reduction in penalties and penalisation, particularly those that may for any reason be condemned, but at the same time it had expressed its specific objections to issues that were legislated by the previous government. However, we have all seen how the previous period has evolved, resulting in the previous period since July 1st and then, since the new Criminal Code, we have made decisions that have created many questions and great concern in the Greek society. So today we come with this legislative intervention, to deal with - almost all the issues which have arisen in question and I think are very much in response to the feeling of common law expressed daily by Greek society. I would therefore like to say, of course, that the framework for rape and child rape is stricter at the end of the debate in the Greek Parliament, and I would like to say to you that, with amendments already tabled, the framework for rape and child rape is being tightened up, the framework for traffickers of illegal immigrants and the present article - I am always referring to the changes relating to the Criminal Code - which was the subject - of the greatest confrontation with Accuracy, which concerns infidelity against banking institutions. Now under Article 399, so that there is no backward reading of the Criminal Code - and I imagine that colleagues from the legal science at least do recognize what I mean - it goes to Article 405 and is described in the general words that infidelity against a credit or financial institution now requires that it be insulted and does not operate in the sense of the own-initiative. The Code of Criminal Procedure deals with changes from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u6	That's the original one. In consultation...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u7	It didn't change anything. I'm just telling you that there's no wrong reading of the Criminal Code. I repeat that colleagues who have seen the spirit of the Criminal Code can understand that transferring from one article to another is correct. He should be there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u8	You will submit these in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u9	They have already been tabled, Mr President. I am just explaining them as quickly as possible to colleagues. For the Code of Criminal Procedure, we are essentially reintroducing the right reason for bringing an appeal. The main interrogator shall return to the interrogator. These are amendments that have been tabled. Assistant scientists can now be considered as witnesses. And, of course, in cases of a malicious nature which are either the jurisdiction of the prosecutor for financial crime or the jurisdiction of the prosecutor for corruption, any evidence obtained will be accepted. With regard to the debate that took place mainly on the part of the Association of Prosecutors for the freezing of property, which is now in line with what is already in force for the prosecutor of economic crime, that is, nine and nine months, which at the same time determines what is going on throughout Europe or presides over the eighteen-month term of detention, an amendment of the Ministry of Finance is tabled in the quarter to enable the prosecutor of corruption to pass on the case in which any competent judicial authority has now been charged. Finally, I would like to clarify this. There is one question that has been given a huge debate over recent years, and it is about the fact that we are reintroducing the disinhibition of public quiet. I would like to assure anyone interested that the government's intention is to protect essentially and to protect the interests of the ordinary working Greek citizen. Of course, we see with interest all these issues arising from the operation of the shops. The Government's intention is, of course, in cooperation with the Ministry of Civil Protection to see re-approved provision 3 of 1996, which also identifies the possibilities of operating all the stores. Obviously the intention of a government that supports the economic development of the country is not to limit the activity of business or to block or create obstacles, as they have once been in very tight working hours or in a sense that has often created problems for small and medium-sized enterprises or even for workers in these shops. On the contrary, I repeat, there is a commitment and it is expressed by us at the moment that we will ensure that there are no such problems. On the other hand, you realise that we could not leave the average Greek citizen's right to a disturbance of common peace unprotected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u10	Minister, don't speak. We have a day. I am not going to allow it to be at the expense of colleagues. And especially so I hope that before you make the ministerial decision that you will also call local government to cooperate, because the burden of application falls on the backs of local government, that is, the municipalities. As I said, we are starting with Mr Efstathios Constantinidis, the rapporteur-General of the New Democracy. Let the records be opened for the colleagues who want to speak. Here you go, Mr. Constantinidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law to be passed under the heading 'Amendments to the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the relevant provisions' comes to bring about a first set of changes to the new codes of our criminal system. Indeed, just last June, this year, the previous government voted for the two new codes which introduced significant and profound changes in our country's legal order. The amendments introduced took almost all the dimensions of the criminal phenomenon, the procedure for the award of criminal justice and the stage in the creation of sanctions. The new regulations provided for new institutions and procedures, extensive decriminalisations, changes in the types of penalties, significant reductions in the sanctions reserved, and systematic flooding in former malicious acts. In addition, a general trend towards privatization of the criminal case has been recorded by extending the number of persecuted offences by means of criminal negotiation, the satisfaction of the person concerned and other relevant regulations. As a consequence, there have been widespread suspensions of persecution, limitations of offences and the dismissal of detainees. I think it is obvious that while the extent and intensity of the changes introduced after the painful, labory and systematic work of the legislators have imposed greater political consensus, they could be difficult to achieve at the suspicious stage of the pre-election period. It is therefore the sole responsibility of SYRIZA that the time chosen to bring the Criminal Codes to a vote, thus depriving them of the suffering of a calm parliamentary process and of strong political legitimacy, since the opposition at the time had expressed several objections to the deterioration of specific offences that were evidently in a social dimension, but above all for the time they were introduced to vote, which was also legally brought about by the application of the weaker criminal law. In other words, the outgoing government then inherited the new two codes for which changes had been announced even at the stage of the election process. It was therefore a consistent policy instrument for the New Democracy in relation to its electoral commitments to this legislative initiative. As it is, I think - clearly from the scope and content of the arrangements - it was also a necessity, since, as is reasonable in the fundamental changes that have taken place, there have been misinterpretations and uncertainties. However, the draft law to be passed has been severe and a lot of unfair criticism at the stage of its processing in the committee responsible, and that is what I will try to highlight with the development of its content and quality characteristics. This draft law consists of eleven articles, most of which bring about extensive changes in the material of the two codes, while changes in relevant provisions are made to Article 9. Thus, with the nine of the eleven articles of the bill, interventions are made in a hundred nine articles of the Criminal Codes, without counting the dozens of parables. This alone shows that this is not a limited and significant change, but an extensive and necessary one. The Committee's meetings have been discussed in detail at the outset and in accordance with Article, while the representatives of the bodies involved in criminal justice have been present and presented. In the end, the criticism of the legislative initiative, particularly on the part of Officerial Responsibility, was identified mainly in the following: Firstly, it was said that the law entered timeless and hastily. "You are bringing changes" SYRIZA told us "before the ink has been dried in the new codes". But, ladies and gentlemen, who are blaming us for a rapid change? Those who, by means of legislation, only a few days after the adoption of the codes, even before their provisions enter into force, have implemented these first substantial changes? Why were these important and useful, while the present unjust and unjust ones? On the other hand, was legislative intervention has been hasty and unnecessary? As I have already noted, amendments to the bill are made to a hundred nine articles in the codes, apart from those who have sinned. How many really important or functional interventions should be to be regarded as a draft law in time and actually necessary? The second reproach given to us is that, with the amendments mentioned, we want to breast-feed our political audience. The representatives of the Officerial Representation have long been divorced consistently and are unscrupulous to any acts of government that implements its pre-election commitments. Above all, however, the Opposition accuses us that the bill is distinguished by excessive rigour. But is that true? So let us see how many of the nine amended articles are increasing the guarantees, how much is the state arbitrage restricted and how much more stringent sanctions are ultimately reserved. To answer these questions, I grouped the reforms into three categories: First, those that bring about neutral changes and not just criminalistic. For example, it is the arrangements of Article 57, Article 99, Article 104, Article 142, as well as the vast majority of the reforms in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The second category is the arrangements that broaden rights or increase control over bodies of power. Such are the replacement of subparagraph (b) of paragraph 5 of Article 80 of the Criminal Code, with three requests of different content for the defendant who is unable to pay the instalments. It is the very important regulation of Article 137a of the Criminal Code, which introduces a second paragraph into the article on torture of detainees by which the acts of the first paragraph are punished by the same penalty, even without the purpose mentioned therein, if the path is chosen for colour, origin, religion, sex. Isn't that a liberal provision, ladies and gentlemen? Doesn't it increase the guarantees for any arbitrariness at the expense of the prisoner? Even in this arrangement, however, you found, gentlemen of the counterpopulation, to confuse that replacing the term "drinkled" by the term "intrusive" - word - can cause confusion. On the basis of this provision, however, let me also be allowed the following reference which proves to be your controversy. You have strongly criticised the prolongation of penalties, even in acts of particular decency and risk, when it is dependent on the polluting element, given the probable difficulty in these assessments. "You have persecuted your mind" you told us. In this case, however, one could say that it is also difficult to see whether the choice is made for colour, religion, belief and origin. I have not seen you express the same concerns here. Perhaps because the strict treatment here concerns an employee or a military officer. The same direction is the speeches made in Articles 159 and 159A of the Criminal Code, so that the provisions on the bribery and bribery of political persons are harmonized and applied to MPs and State Secretarys in all their duties. So within the range of tensions in criminal treatment, where we would rank these arrangements, when these, while expanding the criminal phenomenon, are at the same time controlling and restricting the institutions of power and, in fact, protecting the public interest? It is therefore clear that in its own right the intensification or expansion of the rule of law does not make a regressive and authoritarian regulation, just as its relief does not make it more progressive and liberal. The best proof, however, that this legislation does not possess ideological repressive obsession is Article 187(5). Even in crimes of terrorism, the incorporation into the internal legal order of Directive 2017/541 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe is not only applied in the direction of strictness. By amending that regulation, Article 187a(5) has become a crime of purpose, as the Directive claims, since the suppression of crime requires that it be carried out with a view to carrying out or contributing to the performance of one of the crimes referred to in paragraph 1 of that Article and with a knowledge of the fact that the know-how provided is to be used for that purpose. The provision of Article 14 of the Code of Criminal Procedure also increases the guarantees of impartiality in the direction of transparency and control of State corruption. In line with the GRECO recommendations, the regulation of Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure restricting the right of the Minister of Justice with the agreement of the Ministerial Council to suspend or postpone the criminal prosecution of the offences of corruption and corruption. In the above grouping of imported provisions, the third category is the ones that tighten the criminal rule. Thus, in Article 94(4), in the case of the total measurement of more penalties, an exception is introduced for offences committed by a fraudulent prisoner during his licence and Article 110a(2)(b) to dismiss a sentenced polyisobet should have served twenty-two or twenty years in the event of a beneficial measurement. I have included in this category the standardisation of the act described in Article 168(3) and refers to the protection of the enforcement procedure and of the staff of the auction, according to which he is punished by a penalty of up to one year who is illegally entering an auction and who is thus interrupting the operation of the operation, even though it does not constitute a burden, but a relief in respect of the penalty in question, since the provision in question is covered by another standardisation in the Criminal Code. But does this act in any case have an ideological or social sign to stop an auction? Is this what representatives of an area that, as a government, has introduced electronic form and greatly increased the auction procedures? But what auctions are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen? Does the provision for auctions that are accelerating by banks or by public authorities anywhere? Does it distinguish them from those who are accelerating by individuals? To the detriment of poor or rich employees or professionals, weak or bad-payers? Nowhere does that. No ideological loads have been set. It aims to protect an official who has to carry out his duties. It's nothing more and nothing less. On the one hand, however, you tried to give her a class mark and to accuse her of stricter and, on the other, criticised her for unnecessary, claiming that the behavior is covered by another provision of the Criminal Code. So, for reasons of consistency with your criticism, you should probably vote for this arrangement as being milder. In addition, the most stringent arrangements include changes to the following provisions, such as: Article 169a for the infringement of judicial decisions. For this regulation, it is reasonable to consider that, when a case is often considered as a case, a more significant threat is required to prevent the debtor from being breached. In the same article, with the addition of a second paragraph punishing the breach of the restrictions after the ceiling for detention has been reached, an act which has been unpunished and which is not in any way indifferent. It is, and it is perfectly reasonable, that the sanctions threatened are up to three years. In Article 187, where, with the addition of a fourth paragraph, crimes relating to a criminal organisation have been committed, even if they are not linked to the execution of specific crimes, i.e. the provision of property, instructions and directions, recruitment, in line with Council of Europe Framework Decision 2008/841. In Article 187a(1) for terrorism, the reference to ‘commonly dangerous’ shall be replaced by the reference to ‘general risk crimes’. In addition, in paragraph 187A(6), the threat of terrorist acts or the stirring up of such acts is now provided for in prison for up to five years, from three years before, and a seventh paragraph is added to the same article which provides as a criminal act for a travel to contribute to the conduct of a terrorist offence. Article 187b also adds paragraph 4, so that Greece is consistent with the obligations arising from the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention. In Article 272 of the Criminal Code, for the manufacture and possession of explosives, a second paragraph is added which refers to a felony, when carried out by a perpetrator participating in a pooled crowd that commits violence against persons or things or illegally invades houses, etc., while to date a prison sentence has been provided for, since it is considered that the threat to human being is dramatically increased under the circumstances of Article 189. In addition, under Articles 290a and 291 on dangerous traffic interference in road transport, criminals are simply being punished in one of the cases of major crimes. In addition, Article 374, paragraph (d) of the malicious theft, which was uncovered by previous codes, is added to the relevant provision of the Criminal Code. Finally, the crime of infidelity, which has raised a lot of discussion and a lot of dust with the dialogue that has evolved, is in line with the regulations introduced by the previous Criminal Code, as far as economic crime is concerned. Threatening, ladies and gentlemen, an act...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Constantinidis, you see the time across the street. You're gonna have to pack it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u13	I see, Mr President. I won't use dentistry, so there's no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u14	That's not an argument. It is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u15	I'll end up very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u16	There will be a slight tolerance for the rapporteurs, but I warn you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. So threatening an act with a higher penalty is, first of all, a more unfavourable treatment. When could we call her strict? When it would be disproportionate to the gravity of the threat or harm it causes to the protected legal good. But is there a great penalty of up to ten years for a gang that has been united for the purpose of theft? Is the actual building of a 20-year sentence for a robbery, rape or other felony? Is the provision for actual creation of the entire sentence of the offence as a prisoner at his permission excessive? Is the prison sentence excessive from three to five years for taking part in a prisoner's escape? Really, if we were to feed all our criminal code offenses, would we have a more liberal criminal code? The critical size, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, lies in the relationship between the act and the penalty, so that the principles of proportionality, suitability, supplyability and efficiency are served by it. The above principles are not affected by any provision of the bill, as there are no significant rights of the defendant in the criminal proceedings and also by the parties. With these considerations, Mr President, and given that the proposed regulations amend problematic provisions of the codes, which have caused reactions and malfunctions, we are correcting uncertainties and errors, for the proper application of the criminal procedure, and that the draft law meets the government's priorities and election commitments to change the framework of penalties to individual crimes, I recommend voting in principle, on the provisions and, of course, on the amendments, which the Minister has previously developed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u18	I would like to inform you that you have to calculate that some seventy Members will be registered. Also, probably - to be sure - there will be a roll-call vote. If we keep our time - all right, the rapporteurs, as I said, will have a little tolerance - we can finish around nine. Otherwise, if you want to go at 12 o'clock, let everyone speak as much as they want. I would also like to say that there will be no further amendments. They are the only two to which the Minister referred - they have been tabled, so you can know them - and perhaps some legislative improvements. Mr. Lappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have also heard the Minister earlier, and the majority rapporteur. I am aware of the fact that I hear in a hurry the codes entered the House in June, in a hurry, and in the mute we passed serious criminal provisions and that the New Democracy participated - it says - in the whole debate and in the debate on the codes. Where? By the absence? Do you forget, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that in this House when the codes were passed, the only parties that existed - and are to their credit - were SYRIZA and the Potami?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u20	That's why it wasn't supposed to be!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u21	You think so, Minister! You think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u22	Minister, you are an old parliamentarian. Will you now have a word with the rapporteur? We'll get to 1 o'clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u23	So the story about haste and vote is about the baskets of the unusable. On that day the flaw in legal mind and science was in Parliament and was absent from the party that knocked at the door of power. And you come to tell us that you're changing them, because the codes were in haste, after a 20-year dialogue between the entire legal community, university professors, lawyers, law enforcement officers. For 20 years proposals were tabled for an article. And he was absent from the party of Officerial Response and, unfortunately, KINAL! I say this in order to clarify what you mean when you say 'You know, we have always participated in the debate on the process of drafting and voting the codes'. They're false! No falseer! You've been absent! In fact, let me not remind you of something that has been written in the darkest colours in the history of parliamentary life. On the day the codes were passed, the Chief of the then-attack officer and current Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, told the channels outside that at the moment the House is meeting illegally to make certain arrangements. This flagship, the top scientific achievement of the codes, you considered something very prudence and everyday or the issue of arrangements within Parliament. That is what I would like to say as a foreword.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u24	Let's actually go now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u25	You're too hasty, I see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u26	On 7 July the world voted. Let's actually go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Spankee, please. I'm not gonna say the name again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u28	I have no problem, Mr President. I don't mind at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u29	Go on, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Lappa, Mr. Tsiaras is a Carditian.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u31	With regard to Mr Chiara, I have publicly spoken about the feelings I have about the Minister and his relationships with him and his honesty and purity. But here are other issues that we are discussing. I have to tell you that exactly three and a half months have passed since the adoption of the codes and one and a half months since the start of the court year, namely from the day of application. I understand: you are a parliamentary majority, you are a new government and you have the right to make changes. However, do not invoke the argument that passions began to appear in the application of the Criminal Code a month and a half after the implementation of the new judicial year! As far as the Criminal Code is concerned, to say that something is distorted or is obsessed or its application is not positive for society as a whole, it takes years. It doesn't take a month, but years! So to understand what we mean, I'll tell you one thing. The Criminal Code in 1950 began to apply on January 1, 1951. Do you know what the previous criminal law was? It was the law of 1824. How many years did it take? It took a hundred and thirty years. Today we've been making the new Criminal Code - since June - how many years have it taken since 1950? It took seventy years! And you say the codes are in the House in a hurry! Was it not necessary to pass the codes? There was no need for society, no need for the legal community, no need for the country by a criminal law that responded to and paralleled to the needs of the era, the needs of society. Because the Criminal Code does not exist only for their legal minds, but it solves modern and warm social issues, because it protects or does not protect very seriously legal goods, such as property, life, personal freedom. So we are not talking about it just for the legal community. We talk about it and we choose with society. That's the one. Secondly, can the Criminal Code, the amendments you bring, Minister, go in the spirit to the legal and liberal behind and the 1950 Code? I have told you in committee, and now I am telling you, never at all! I also told you that some provisions go behind the spirit of the 1950s and that is unacceptable and unacceptable, in my view. I'm mostly speaking as a lawman. And as Parliament, however, to know: a modern code will meet the current needs of this country, so that it has criminal legislation that is acceptable at European level too? That is a big question. And don't forget that the basic principle of any intervention we're doing in the Criminal Codes is the democratic principle, for which Nikolas Horafas in 1950, proposing the general place, which was amazing in terms of a liberal perception, said, "to the peoples who believe in human personality, as of own value, the penal power of the state cannot be transformed into a therapist of this..." - the state that is - "or that of tyranny." The first committee to draw up the codes in force was the Mylonopoulos and Androylakis Commission. He then wrote the President of the Committee on Nikolas Androullakis who failed a week ago - indeed, he happened to migrate on the day of the last meeting of our committee - 'democracy is necessary in order for criminal law, the under consideration servant and expresser of state power, to be truly fair and not arbitrary'. The next committee was the late Ioannis Manoledakis, where along with Mrs Symidis - Kastanidou wrote the horrifying - unbelievable - I say that it was an incredible and amazing report that was incorporated as a explanatory statement into the applicable codes. Ioannis Manoledakis wrote: "Human dignity is an absolute rightful concept, with an absolute rightful demand for its universal respect, which thus sets an absolute limit to the exercise of any power, as a moral self-evident of the post-liberal democratic rule after World War II." I must tell you that the code of 1950 was indeed too liberal, adopting and incorporating the messages of societies after the massacre of World War II, but also of the post-war period. After the civil spasm in our country, it did in fact fully enshrine the Greek place and the legal spirit and the liberal concept. And that was up until today. We must not harm this or reduce it in any way. So now let's go down. I told you, Minister, and the committee, that I see in your provisions - in fact, you have threatened us legally - that you will also bring back malicious blasphemy. We are the only country in the forty-nine Council of Europe that maintained until June a provision on malicious blasphemy. Don't ever think about it again! I see in your amendments that you have the right as a majority to do so. I see a phenomenal phenomenon, that is, you're talking a lot about the law, and so on. Do you know what the philosophy of law says, ladies and gentlemen of legal science? It says the law is incomplete because it is human creation. That is why he can be amended, so he can be supplemented, which is why he can also be abolished. The law is indeed incomplete. But it is perhaps the only tool to approach Utopia, the law, what we say, justice. So we can agree on what the law is and not forget it. And don't forget that once in the years of the curse and cholera in the United States, in the hunt of obscene for their rights, Luther King had said when he was asked by journalists what is the law: "The law for me is this: It may not force someone to love me, but it may forbid him to lynch me and that is very - very important". And additional: "If there is injustice somewhere for some, then justice is threatened everywhere and for everyone." I quote these to agree on the liberal and legal spirit of the existing criminal codes. Now let's go to the rules. What is the case in Europe in terms of penalties? Mr President, I will present to the House an amazing report by Mrs Symsonidou and Mr Kastanidou, which she presented on the two-day day which she organised for the codes about a month and a half ago in the Union of Judges and Prosecutors. He has now presented with an online drive, on camera, a work that is amazing about what is happening in the countries of Europe for the framework of penalties, that is to say, the allocation of crimes and crimes against the crimes in question. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the Minutes the above study, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I must tell you that Mrs Symionidis-Castanidou finds that our country, while over time, is below the average level of crime for all crimes - attacks, rape, homicide, drugs - was, however, the first country of the forty-nine Council of Europe with the greatest penalties. This correspondence made our Criminal Law a problem in the sense that there was no crime and penalty ratio. And the teacher says it clearly in there. So let's see it. Get copies. It is very important that you have an opinion. In fact, I want to tell you there's a search for this. I can testify after that. Now let's go to the rules. I understand what you are saying about Directive 541, which is adopted on offences against terrorism. I get it. There are problems in Europe, especially after Bataklan's phenomena in France. I get it. However, we have some objections, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, because many times under short-term socio-economic phenomena we are enacting criminal provisions, which must have a prospect of decades. And under the juncture we adopt provisions that do not meet the needs of the real timescales of society. You are introducing - I think that there is no in the directive - the term 'general risk'. I told you in committee, I now say to you as a lawyer and as a Member that the term 'general risk' is not a term of legal or criminal. It's a forensic term, and it's only about the interpretation of criminal provisions. The concept of ‘general risk’ cannot be arranged. It does not exist in criminal science as a term of offence, i.e. it is described in the legal provision. It's a forensic term and it's only necessary for the interpretation of the provisions, not for their writing. You put this in spite of the fact that the directive invoked by 541/17 does not mention it, as the provision does not mention, and for the disruption of a common peace, in which the phenomenon of terrorism can be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u32	He doesn't mention it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u33	He doesn't mention it, Minister. I have it in front of me. He mentions the other things you say. But that's not what she's talking about. Crimes against public order, then, where there may be everything and everyone. That's our objection and we say it. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment the only country from the forty-nine Council of Europe which does not have the force of social work is our country. He may be right about the Ministry and says, "I want the institution to make him more effective, to have a base and indeed to have the concept of building as a primary penalty." But does it have to be suspended to improve the institution? That's the question. On board you have to make amendments, interventions. The institution is in place and I'm improving it. What's the problem? Why suspend the institution and be the only country that no longer applies to social work? That's a matter. We are going to Rule 110a there, Mr Minister, because you want to give a record, that you are stricter than the provisions and that you will severely penalise the prisoners already. You know that's not the case. For the home-made construction of the sentence with a bracelet, I would like to open up a parenthesis and say that it has never been implemented in our country until now, not even on a case-by-case basis. Never! The parentheses are closed. Even in one case it did not apply. In the seventeen years for home-made building with "brakes" you do twenty-two when we have cumulative sentences and sixteen make them twenty when we have life-long squats with the beneficial calculation, with cuts, etc.. I'm trying to find the recital why you're doing it. I can't find it. Because you're doing this for the new prisoners from now on. I heard one of your colleagues who went on television and said, "We are doing this to prevent early release of prisoners already in prison for terrorism", ignoring a basic law in criminal law: once a criminal provision is in force for an hour, and the other one is in prison, the most important provision will be applied. So we're not talking about the already prisoners. Apparently, he meant Kufondina, terrorism, and so forth. It cannot be applied to him, unfortunately. We're talking about the new prisoners. Why are you making this raise? There is nothing in the explanatory statement to justify this. And I'd expect to hear it from you at the close. Why do you do it from seven to twenty two and from six to twenty? Imagine that the current Code has sixteen years, the prestige, the old '50s had fourteen years of continuous construction. The code of the '50s had fourteen years of creation, the current code has sixteen and you make them twenty in three and a half months. Let's see how it works. Let us see what issues we have with the penitentiary code, where the vicious circle is created, long stay. The European Commission has many and a thousand ways in which we have had two things to do: to reduce the penalty framework and to shorten the detention time in the penitentiary. That is why the country is being punished, because we have no longer worked out appropriate ways and methods of dealing with the huge problem with the penitentiary system, and now we are blooding it instead of triggering the opposite version, to dismantle it. Anyway. We're going to torture "running", because time is running. As far as torture is concerned, Minister, we have no disagreement that the torturer must be punished strictly. Our objections to "the torturer who follows in an orderly manner or intentionally...", differentiates our attitude, because we fear and imagine that if we go to deliberately, who is subjective, the torturer will benefit, and the intention of all of us is to be punished heavierly. I told you that as a lawman I would like to have one of my clients and say "the deliberate", to "play" within the subjective element. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The drunkenness, followed by the Criminal Code in many other provisions, considers it to be the preparation of a structure, so that the unprepared one is relieved, as the report says. Anyway. As far as terrorism is concerned - and I have told you in committee, Minister - you put in place the concept of a disturbance in public silence, which can be punished in the context of terrorist acts. So, what do we do now? I think of a proverb that says "we were hunting mosquitoes with a shotgun". In other words, even in the context of the disruption of public silence, terrorist acts may be carried out. I don't understand. I think it is a provision which concerns all protesters, students and workers. Anyone who is demonstrating and disturbing the common order and who finds a journey or preparation or “download” from a site, etc., can be persecuted for terrorism through exterminating sentences horizontally. And see where this case ends. I don't have much more time, so I'm going to close up with the infidelity thing. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I say one to you: we have had three meetings in committee. Neither one body - nor one! - he didn't leave this provision unavoidable. In fact, you are still saying today, "the felony infidelity is excluded and insulted only for bank managers". Apart from the general issue of constitutionality, it is also unfair to a large group of people who will be subjected to self-determination. On the other hand, it is an excellent provision, favourable and privileged, for bank executives. This is a huge issue and a very serious one. Is the order brought by the previous government not satisfying you with L.4472/2017? You are invoking 390 for infidelity with an argument. You say, "Will the employee make loan arrangements or debt arrangements and go indicted?" But the bank officer is explicitly relieved of this act. There is an explicit discharge when it comes to arrangements. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] When the clerk settles and makes debt arrangements, I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u34	The time will be as much as the rapporteur in the New Democracy. I don't need any hints.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u35	I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, what does this provision say? Who will decide whether to prosecute bank executives? There is a three-seat committee in the Athens Court of Appeal, senior judges, i.e., presided over by the oldest appeal of the Athens Court, orders expertise to the supervisory body of the Bank of Greece, takes the expertise, investigates the investigation and only then if they discover actions or omissions which do not concern the settlements and arrangements of loans and debts, and if there is an infringement of other credit rules, the prosecutor shall order the prosecution of criminal proceedings. All institutional, constitutional and criminal guarantees and safeguards exist in this provision and you do not want it. And you don't want it, because you want to do a favor to the bankers and bank executives. Mr President, we will be voting against the Code of Criminal Procedure the return of the Monomelehem Court of Appeal, so that a judge can impose sentences on him within five to fifteen years. It is a great penalty, it is a heavy burden and it is a huge conscientious issue for the judge to be able to impose a 15-year sentence on his own. We also do not agree with the existence of all the investigations in the context of the preliminary examination, because there the suspect is merely a suspect and not a accused person. I shall close, Mr President, with one phrase. It has been said to the committees and has been left to suggest that, in all the provisions you bring, we may also have issues of morality. Criminal law must say, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it does not concern anyone's morality at all. It does not defend moral code rules, criminal law, and it is icyly indifferent to the moral thought and mind of everyone. It provides for and punishes acts specific, as described in the relevant penalty framework. Otherwise, we're going to a judiciary of criminal law, which means a few centuries back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of the House twenty-one students and students and one of their educational sessions from the 6th Primary School of Painters. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would ask that we close the list of speakers. The reason is the Special Rapporteur from the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the change in the new codes brought about by the previous government is still fresh. In a way that showed incomprehensible rush, does she wish to resolve some issues that she obviously only had in mind - to facilitate friends or to prevent potential risks for her executives? - the previous government voted immediately - for the codes. The SYRIZA government was unrealisticly exposed, as all this was done one day before the closure of the parliament for the national elections. In this way he has wronged the very serious work that has been done in recent years by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and it seemed, in fact, as if he wanted to do a massive rupture to various privileged audiences. In defining, ladies and gentlemen, entry into force on 1 July, i.e. with a broken parliament and therefore, at a time when there was virtually no legitimacy of the Ministerial Council to intervene in the structure of the independence of justice and the separation of powers, it has actually shown that it is not counting anything. He did above - down to justice, led to releases, postponements to trials. Even Mr. Kontonis, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, had taken a position to start the validity of the codes later. Mr. Tsipras was in a hurry. He'd know more than that. What happened at the time is an institutional abstraction. It could be postponed, ladies and gentlemen, for this debate to be held shortly afterwards, with the new political connections that have been established. This lack of democratic sensitivity therefore makes it absolutely necessary to see these arrangements again. After all, we see it all these days, days of concern, in view of the celebration of the Polytechnic Insurrection anniversary. Who was he helping? Mr. Lappa, you know how much I appreciate you. What perception did the transfer of molotov serve to be a flood? We all understand that, especially in the days that we have been following all this transgression of violence and an open support of the SYRIZA, who has rediscovered his activist self, his other self, before 2015, after, of course, four and a half years of exercise of power. However, regardless of this political choice, the whole legal world expressed its positive attitude to the need to modernise the codes, because it was necessary - absolutely necessary! - in the context of modern European legal culture. We all consented, ladies and gentlemen, that this should have been done a long time ago, under political consensus and not under pressure, as the role of justice and its implementation through the codes cannot, in any case, become a political controversy. We want a criminal law that is just and not punishable. We must realise that because social conditions change, so do the codes, very logically, must be adapted to the new social data. While, Minister, we have seen legislative intervention - which is positive at the outset - on the need to rationalise the legal framework for terrorism, on the subject of the dismissal of polyisovious detainees, which, among other things, are included in this bill, we have finally reached a point where we have come to introduce and have provisions which, in fact, are against the rule of law, against, possibly, in the Constitution and even in the logic itself. And with the amendments you have tabled last minute, in the end, you are actually in the opposite direction to the very spirit of the Legislative Committee, which, otherwise, you praised throughout the whole debate in the committees. Minister, I'm sorry, but you're disappointing us! In principle, you have not taken into account any of the changes we have put before you. Unfortunately, you have been on your own because, instead of listening to your colleagues' legal misgivings, you have again preferred communication policy - at the moment, of course, it has been smelling since the 1950s - and to mock conservative ears by reintroducing the provisions on blasphemy, which you have withdrawn at the end - so we are told - because of the general outcry. I imagine, Minister, that that cannot be said to be a liberal policy. On the other hand, I cannot fail to point out the fact that you preferred to concentrate only on ten amendments of too many provisions of both the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which, once again, does not surprise us! - it's a typical example of a misdemeanor. In particular, with Article 7, Minister, with the changes you bring to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which concerns more than sixty articles, you have really finished it. Why are you doing this? Why are you doing this? Definitely not random. You incorporate into the same articles necessary modifications or if you want to incorporate European directives that no one can disagree with, together with provisions that are legally affected, but also demonstrate the very conservative approach to the issues with which you see and deal with the law. As long as we condemn this tactic, however, Minister, again, in view of the modernisation of our Criminal Law, we will stand positively on its positive points, but we will stick to the very important provisions that you are bringing and which are in conflict with the social project, which the codes must have in the application of justice. Most changes to the stricter criminal code have to do and are related to terrorism. These provisions, as I have said, find us positive, since in any case they are part of European law, European rules and European directives. One very serious point, however, which shows what is the logic of today's government and, unfortunately, once again brings our country into conflict with what is happening in all the other countries of the civilised world is that you are effectively abolishing or - if you want to speak on your own terms - prolong the suspension of the provisions on the provision of social services as a primary penalty. The provision of socially beneficial work is not a graceful metro. It is a global practice that has led to spectacular results. And you, with all the provisions you have brought since summer, have actually thrown it into the Greek bells. We invite you, Minister, to immediately set a specific timetable for when to restore the institution of socially beneficial work to Greek law. Why, as long as you are delaying and providing for the conversion of social work into a financial penalty, what are you doing, Minister? Basically, you are setting strict class criteria, mainly affecting people's layers and those who cannot pay for their sentence. Of course, the excuses that the administration cannot serve the socially beneficial job, I'm sorry, but they are the least funny. If the administration cannot do so, then the administration must be forced to do so, not to abolish such a serious institution. Furthermore, another extremely problematic point, which we kept talking to you in the committees, has to do with the new provisions - it was in the previous Criminal Code - continues to have them and, in fact, not to turn them into them - which concern dangerous driving by creating, as we have said, extremely strict penalties frameworks. We have told you again that the provisions of Articles 290 and 290a are extremely problematic and may lead to the imposition of multi-annual wheelsets which do not involve a serious subjective responsibility of the driver, for example, if a car has not passed through the CTEO or if it has a very small excess of the limits of alcohol. We have also asked you to list dangerous driving operations restrictively and to put in other dangerous acts, such as speeding up. And that's what you're deaf of.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u38	Madam President, I apologise, but I will interrupt you for thirty seconds to make a brief announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory of forty students and students and two of their training attendants from the private High School Diamantopoulou, first section, from Attica. The House welcomes you. Keep going, Mrs. Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u39	At the same time, special provisions regulate the criminal treatment of those who use or manufacture explosives. There has also been much public debate on molotovs in the past few days. To be honest, here right from the outset there has been quite a communication approach on the part of the government on a very serious issue, that the molotov crisis is not a felony. The use of molotov, the dropping molotov, was and is a felony, to say things the way they are. The possession of molotovs, of explosives, up to 30-6-2019 was a felony, which SYRIZA turned into a flood from 1-7-2019 and then - aiming, of course, at its audience, Mr Lappa - and you come here today and restore the previous regulation, namely that the possession of molotov recovers its malicious status, but limited within the limits of a demonstration. Mr Lappa, however, it is unthinkable - and I say this because you are a very sensible man and a cool voice to SYRIZA - to ask yourself what a crime one commits when carrying a molotov in protests. It's a pity, because no one can forget Marfin's dead and that they've gone from a molotov dropping. So we must be very careful. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr SYRIZA, I will speak now and for what you are saying, that you will bring a roll-call vote, but we will talk a little bit about the serious things. The provision for the indictment of infidelity against banking institutions - we have told you in committee too - is problematic. It is problematic, certainly legal, possible and constitutional. We as a Change Movement have tabled an amendment which we sincerely believe is the best way of dealing with the issue, on a proposal from Haris Kastanides, and in which we say that, in fact, prior to the exercise of criminal prosecution for the self-determination referred to in Article 390(1) B of the Penal Code, "prosecuted crime of infidelity" - that is, the self-prosecuting prosecution to an extent of a felony - against the property of a bank, the prosecutor asks the Bank of Greece in its supervisory role to ascertain the breach of the rules of sound and diligent management, the damage caused by the bank's property. We are putting the particular condition that we believe will best resolve this issue. Obviously, also from the provisions you have tabled in your amendment, it is not acceptable. However, I, and now, even at the last moment and within the House, ask you to accept the amendment to the Change Movement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Gentlemen of SYRIZA, do not shed crocodile tears especially on this matter. Because you are the first to bring in a similar provision to Article 65 of Law 4472/2017, in stricter terms - yes, to recognise it - but on the basis of which those with criminal and civil liability for the management of the property of a credit institution can, in essence, be governed by specific frameworks. In relation to the new Code of Criminal Procedure, we have seen the danger that the re-expansion of the jurisdiction of the Prosecutor of Corruption is expected to further increase the operational problem, which this agency has, in any case, also has a very large volume of pending procedural proceedings and is, in fact, under the specific provision you bring, Mr Minister, you are canceling the essential role of the Prosecutor of Corruption, namely, the control of political persons. What will this corruption prosecutor do first? Check the civil servants, check the civilians? You need to see it again. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, it is understood to all of us that the modernisation of the codes was and is absolutely necessary, after seventy years of their adoption. The principle of proportionality, the principle of leniency are pillars of this culture and it is inconceivable that it should not apply to a modern rule of law. We in the Change Movement said from the outset that we were positive at the outset in amending the provisions of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, after the very serious work done by the Legislative Committee. Besides, the reform of criminal law was an initiative of the PASOK under the Ministry of Justice of Haris Kastanides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u40	Ms. Yanakopoulou, look across the clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u41	You ate me a minute, Mr. President, when you interrupted me. And please, I need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u42	I ate you 23 seconds, not a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u43	So please, I have the 19 minutes that the previous ones have had. You interrupted my sarcophagus. Do you understand, Mr. President? But, Minister, as much as we have pointed out the need for the necessary corrections to be made at the first moment, we need very much attention and wisdom, in order not to get from one end to another, from the ideological slackness of the SYRIZA, to the anachronistic conservativeism of the New Democracy. And here, in your proposals, there are essentially in many cases - as we have mentioned - a back-up to the rule of law. With the changes that you do not bring with the last minute's amendments, in fact - to say things by their name - you have done yourself with your partners the work of a second legislative committee which, in many cases, abolishes the work of the first, the normal legislative committee. So do not praise the Legislative Committee when you actually take your proposals back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u44	Mrs. Yanakopoulou, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u45	Yes, I come to something last, Mr President. And you tell us about good legalization, and before 'the elite speaks three times' you bring us proposals that have not been passed by a legislature, which have not been passed by consultation, which are backwards in the work that has been done for so many years and which smell of scientific and dogmatic molds. The country, however, needs substantial changes especially in the well-qualified area of justice, which is the most basic pillar of our democracy and which, in the end, ladies and gentlemen, is the most basic tool for realising equality between citizens and especially the weaker ones. But in the way that you bring these changes, unfortunately, this is not a perfect state, as you say, but you are actually saying to establish an old Balkan right! We are therefore voting in favour of the bill in principle. We are, however, voting against the provisions in which we disagree and contradict the principles of the rule of law and the proper administration of justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u46	Mrs. Yanakopoulou, please. That is what you will say at the time of the vote. Let's move on. You should know that sixty-eight colleagues have been written. With a clipboard calculation, you will calculate that we will go not earlier than 22.00 p.m. to 23.00 p.m. if there is a roll-call vote - there you will calculate it - and provided that so far no political leader has declared himself to speak. Because if he talks to a political leader, you know where we're going. Let's go to my colleague Maria Konnaka - I think I should like to highlight the name - from the Communist Party of Greece. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. The debate on the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure is certainly not a matter of scientific interest which concerns only those involved in the field of justice. When we talk about Criminal Law, we are essentially talking about a system of rules that is primarily repressive and deprived of personal freedom in the hands of the ruling class. It is the most powerful means of maintaining and enforcing the sovereign policy that does not hesitate, when necessary, to baptise as criminal acts the struggles of the working class and of the people, against which it is attempting to shield itself with recent amendments. The measures adopted by the government are in the eye not in today, but in tomorrow, in the armouring of the capitalist system by a new deeper economic crisis, in the shocks that will be particularly caused by the reactions of the labour and folk movement. That's why you're trying to put it deeper into the plaster. How else could it be justified that despite the general spirit which prevailed in modifying the codes for a general reduction in the penalties threatened, the limits for the offence that has been used over time by governments to criminalise popular mobilisation have been increased? A characteristic example is the disruption of the common peace, which SYRIZA has increased the price ceiling from two to three years, and you are today maintaining it. You also retain the unacceptable addition made by SYRIZA to criminalise even a total peaceful mobilisation when it seeks to eliminate a legitimate collective procedure, as you say. Now, of course, by saying 'legal procedure' you mean - let's say - conferences with legal representatives and braces? Who's gonna judge this again? Whoever has the knife has the melon. You take other measures to prevent the world's equitable indignation from the results of your policy, which you know will come. That is why you are turning the mobilizations against auctions into a specific offence, even criminalising the entry and stay at the place where the auction is conducted, even if it is not conducted at that time. The same possibility, of course, was maintained by SYRIZA with the previous legal framework as long as the auctions were not exclusively electronically. That is why the whole criticism of the Change Movement is exhausted in judging the provision, because the penalty is possible also with the existing legal framework, and even with stricter penalties. But do you ultimately disagree with the substance? With these provisions, unlock hands to the banks to massage the people's housing hammer and threaten with prison sentences anyone who dares to react. You are serving, in other words, one of the main Memorandum promises that you have all voted together. Who do you think, then, are you mocking using as a pretext for the unacceptable and provocative protection of bankers the supposed desire to facilitate the deletion of red loans? Why don't you do that, but instead you take a series of measures that tighten the terms and make it easier to auction first home? When you even expand protection for infidelity that exceeds EUR 120,000, what debtors are you ultimately protecting? However, it is also dangerous that the New Democracy Government further strengthens and broadens the so-called 'anti-terrorist legislation', Article 187A and Article B of the Criminal Code. In time and on the basis of international experience, under the pretext of the threat of terrorism, a number of measures are being taken that extend the repression and are being used to dress up with the context of the need to curb people's rights and freedoms. These provisions had already been widened by the last amendments made by SYRIZA, who, of course, declared opposition to abolishing the terrorist, but which extended it instead. Now the New Democracy is going one step further, extending the criminal offence to all offences of general risk and those against public order, thereby seeking not to remain outside a criminal offence which cannot be subject to the crime of terrorism. It goes on to criminalize the realisation of a journey, when it is assumed that it is being conducted for the purpose of training for the conduct of terrorist acts. At the same time, a new provision is added to Article 187B whereby the Greek courts are required, when measuring the penalty for the corresponding offences, to take as prejudicial circumstances any sentences by judgments of courts of other European countries, given that the institutions of the European Union under the term ‘terrorism’ are trying to incorporate any radically progressive thinking into any ideology challenging this system. They do not hesitate for many European Union countries to put out of law even communist parties. From this point of view, we consider it absolutely disorientative that all these days it is intended to focus controversy on the issue of molotovs. You did the same as your opposition. You left to the unavoidable all the reactionary changes that went through with the new codes and restricted the debate on molotovs. The increase in the limits of the penalty, by which we disagree - when there is today a legal framework that punishes the occupation as a flood, as is the case with the possession of any other weapon - remains indiscriminate and opens dangerous paths. You know well that we do not agree with instruments and groups that use such instruments and can ultimately turn against the people's movement. However, the introduction of another peculiar offence opens dangerous roads, can be exploited in a way specifically linked to the offence of the common peace in order to be dragged into a felony by those taking part in demonstrations by planting them into allegedly possession of explosives. Such explosives serve to hide the deafening New Democracy and SYRIZA agreement in a number of other reactive measures that you keep intact with the last amendments. And this is also evident in maintaining the American inspiring institutions of criminal negotiation, conciliation and order, which are directly contradicted even by the fundamental principles of criminal law. How can the search for the essential truth be ensured when the social question of investigating the execution of a criminal act is turned into a bazaar for the height of the sentence between a prosecutor and accused behind closed doors? Can it really, in these circumstances, prevent the defendant from directly or indirectly compelling the defendant, even end up in a confession of a crime that he has not committed in fear of a heavier penalty and in order to avoid any costs that he has often been unable to cover? By the provision of criminal conciliation on the other hand, you are actually donating those who have been involved in even scandalous economic crimes, since they can achieve a symbolic penalty with the satisfaction of the passion. The perpetrator, not only in this case, is not prevented from committing such offences, but is actually encouraged to take the risk, since he can ultimately avoid the penalty. A problem is also the institution of the criminal order which circumvents any concept of rights of the defendant, who, in addition to that automatic procedure for the adoption of a judgment, loses on substance one of the two degrees of examination of his case. Dangerous routes to the rights of the accused also open up with the provision you have brought last minute with last night's amendment allowing the use of illegally acquired evidence to economic crimes. How far, indeed, is it from extending such instruments illegally acquired, such as illegal hearings that we have seen in the past, to the entire extent of personal life? A number of measures are in the same direction, particularly in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which are taken in the name of the acceleration and decongestion of the courts, ultimately sacrificing any minimum guarantees of proper administration of justice. From this point of view, the reintroduction of the Single Court of Appeal is negative. It is not possible to investigate serious crimes, such as robbery, distinguished theft, felonies, drugs, against the transport of immigrants, who are rightly punished by severe penalties, which often have serious proving difficulties, to be entrusted to the judgement of a single person. But even a number of changes that obviously run counter to even constitutionally-established principles are proposed as a medicine in the ongoing subsidization of all levels of justice. Such is the removal of the exception of the prosecutor who has contributed to the extradition of the petition and to the first degree, so that he can participate in the composition of the judiciary. Even this horizontal reduction in penalties essentially serves to decongest prisons. The progressiveness or non-existence of changes shall not be judged solely by increasing or reducing penalties, especially when the limits and measures against the people are increased in spite of the general reduction. The wording of the article on torture, the most inconvenient of crimes, is presented as progressive, but not only are you actually reducing the sentence to 10 years, since before the last amendments made to the codes it was possible to impose up to 20 years in prison, but you are also blocking the possibility of a stricter penalty for those who take these actions by opting for racist motives or even because of their political convictions, which would have been possible if the cumulative use of Article 82A were maintained. The progressiveity of the changes is therefore judged by whether they are part of a comprehensive anti-crime policy, starting with the formulation of conditions to reduce criminal behaviour, continue through a penitentiary procedure that really disciplines the proven fault of committing a criminal act and completing it with its effective reintegration and support in social life. The problems of crime are, of course, not tackled, in our view, by the new codes, nor by the last amendments adopted by SYRIZA, since, among other things, poverty, unemployment, organised crime, arms trafficking, drugs, laundering, human trafficking, fornication are apparent to be inherent to capitalism, and they stem from the way in which the law is produced where the profits for monopolistic groups are hunted. Eradicating crime is purely for the sake of achieving a higher social system in socialism, where there will be no objective basis for its appearance, namely the exploitation of human beings by people, where people will be trained in the values of selflessness and social solidarity. However, today for the JRC, the reactive institutions of the criminal negotiation, the criminal conciliation and the order that substantially favours the most economically powerful and violates the rights of the accused with this presumption of innocence, the abolition of the terrorist and all the criminal provisions conducive to popular rights and freedoms, the safeguarding of the defendant's rights when taking a DNA sample, as we had as a party an relevant amendment rejected by the previous SYRIZA government. It is necessary to ensure modern and dignified detention conditions by guaranteeing and extending the rights of the accused, in order to tackle the outbreak of crime within prisons and finally to stop its recycling. Improving logistics and serving courts, prisons, public services, social prevention and reintegration with the necessary, appropriate and qualified staff, so that there is effective prevention, speeding up the criminal trial, but also effective social reintegration of those who are serving their sentence. This is, of course, far from the provisions and amendments that are currently introduced into the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. On the basis of the overall criticism we have developed, and during the debate on the committees, we believe that the draft law with the proposed amendments is in a reactionary direction about it and we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u48	Thank you for the complete respect of time. Before giving Mr Mylonakis the floor, the Minister wants to make a legislative improvement. After Mr Mylonakis, she is Mrs Adamopoulou and closes the list of rapporteurs. Will you then take the floor for your speech or, after the procedure has proceeded, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u49	After the procedure has come to an end, Mr President. I'm going to talk about the legislative improvements we're making. The first concerns the fact that Article 5(2) is deleted. The second improvement is that the title of Article 5 is replaced by the following: ‘Amendment to Article 374 of the Criminal Code’. The third is that Article 8(12) is deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u50	I would ask that it be tabled in the Minutes and that it be distributed to the rapporteurs. The first six who are interchangeable colleagues are Mr Vartzopoulos, Mr Giannoulis, Mr Kastanides, Mrs Kanellis, Mr Heitas and Mr Arsenis. I've been saying that since now, although you're almost all in the Chamber. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in five months' time, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure are the second time in plenary. In July, Law 283/1985 was amended, which became Law 4619. And now you're going to change some articles that we have to admit that others have brought them in the right direction, but they have remained unchanged and others want to change. But, Minister, and I would like you to explain it to us - we really couldn't believe it in the Greek Solution when you changed your track in forty-eight hours. You know, what made us most sad is that you come on Monday - and I'm talking about blasphemy crime - go up to the Step and say that the amendments we promised on Friday were made. Are they? We would say 'Let even one minister who observes what he says'. What happened from Thursday to Monday? Why do I say until Monday? Why do you remember well, Minister, that when you gave a dilemma with legislative regulations and amendments I asked you about the blasphemy regulation and told me that 'we did not have time for it to happen, there are problems'. But I did not accept it within myself, and I also discussed it with the President of our parliamentary group, Mr Velopoulos, and with our colleagues and with the Group as a whole, and I could not believe that the Minister of Justice, Mr Tsiaras, whom I appreciate - and you know very well - could make us laugh. What kind of fairy tale is that we ate? Not us, the Greek people. Are you laughing? It's a fairy tale. But is it possible to say that the crime of blasphemy will be punished? Can I tell you something else? Because of work exalting is blasphemy. Yes, Minister, because when it burns the Holy Bank, what is the Holy Bank? But, you know, I admired Mr. Lappa's ability. He tore up his jacket. In fact, when I told him in committee, 'watch out, don't slit your jacket', he said 'I just bought it'. Finally, Mr. Lappas and your left-wing philosophy forced you to get it back - which you shouldn't have done - or your parliamentary group. Something is wrong unless the Party President and Prime Minister himself forced you to take this back, as did the others. Don't think it's more positive, because SYRIZA in July had done all wrong. You know, listening to the agencies, the Deputy Prosecutor, Mr. Panagopoulos, remember what he said and remember very well. "We founded when we saw the Criminal Code and the amendments in July. We sat at night in the summers and worked so that we could figure out what he says here." Am I wrong? A Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure should be understood only by prosecutors or approved lawyers? Shouldn't the Greek citizen understand him? Isn't that why we came here? Or if we get out of here, there's no point in fighting. What for? For the Greek citizen, we're fighting. The Greek citizen wants peace and quiet. The Minister for Civil Protection has not heard us, and you have seen what is happening these days: the molotovs are raining. If you think that the crime of possession and the beginning of the construction of molotov, which remains a misdemeanor, and the crime that goes toward the felony, if it is carried...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u52	What do you think? It's a felony.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u53	Molotov is being transferred. And when I get the molotov out of the bag just before the interrogation, and I deliver it, I'm innocent? If you catch anyone on the air to fly molotov, you'll see me hanging in the Constitution, because no one will ever be arrested while the molotov is throwing away. Never! So no one is going to be punished maliciously. Minister, we in three - four points fought too much. Firstly, in our programme there were the changes and the amendments we have proposed and not just. Life in heinous crimes, rape of children's souls, young children. Is there a man around here that doesn't move? From five to fifteen you did it at least ten. Life and when we call life...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u54	You didn't read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u55	Why read it again? We read it ten times, Minister. We read it and come and tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Mylonakis, please address this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u57	I am addressing this House. The Minister belongs to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u58	You have so far said 'Mr Minister' ten times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, we are all together in this House, a soul, a body.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u60	Leave the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u61	We are together, Minister, embraced, permanently, but here we have to see you. This thing can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u62	He has a weakness for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u63	We'll see it in the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u64	Life in bad crimes, mostly rape. Life in poachers. Indeed, you have made an effort and there are several years of imprisonment for the person who is carrying. But you did it escalating, although life is 15 years with Law4619...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u65	For every transporter, a hundred years will arrive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u66	We agree. That's what I'm saying now, that's good. I'm saying positive ones too. She's gonna have a hundred years, a hundred eighty years. But I don't know how long she's staying. Tell us, Minister, life is 15 years. Mr. 283 had 20.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u67	Twenty-two.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u68	Listen to me! So why would I kill one, I'll kill forty. I'm going crazy out here! I'll come and kill forty and take twenty-two years in jail. I'm sixty-two and twenty-two, I'll be out at eighty-four. I'll be fine, and I'll eat them, and I'll drink for free. So we have said strict sentences for molotovs. But I'll see you in detail. Let's go see some articles. Article 59, the subsequent sentences, in which Law 283/1985 provided that life sentences resulted automatically and automatically in the permanent deprivation of civil rights. This July has been abolished and there is no one here that you enter. Article 74, expulsion of an alien. With the old man there was the possibility for the judge, after the alien was punished for any offence, their crime, by imprisonment, and his expulsion. This was abolished by Law 4619 of July and does not come back. With regard to Article 191a - we have told you again - and the insulting of national symbols and religious symbols. They've changed these, they've entered undersecretaries, they're not like autonomous articles, they're downsizing, but there are. Articles 168 and 169 Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, too much prerogative for auctions. Of course, I'll see you with Article 390. What's going on? Because mass auctions are coming in accordance with the ‘HRAKLES’ plan, you must protect the electronic auctions that are made in notarial notices, so also with Articles 168 and 169 whoever is interrupted or whoever is hitting his foot in a notary from which they are approved to make the auctions, is punished? We don't understand that thing. Very great precursor and this must be abolished. Four articles 202, 203, 204 and 205 relating to military service, the enforcement of discipline, first of all, 202 and 203 and 204 with the impotence. Refugee has now taken large proportions and is thirty - five thousand to forty thousand subordinates. So we have to do something. It's not possible for everyone to take off themselves and say that I'm not capable of serving for alpha or beta speech. So at least the two must come back, not to say that there must be three years of imprisonment for those who under Articles 202 and 203 of discipline mean it as an indiscipline and say that they have gone well and those who put themselves out of armed forces. Let us go to Article 272, in conjunction with Article 187, paragraph 3, which must be deleted, which I referred to earlier. Look, I've got a bag of molotovs on my back, Minister. Right now, I've thrown eight molotovs, I've got ten and there's two left and I've been arrested sometime. On the run upstairs, I can't run much, I'm old enough, there's a cop coming in and he's arresting me. He's taking me to the interrogator. At that time, I deliver, I say, "Take up, I have, I have no more," but I have burned a police officer, I burned two cars, I have done what I had to do as an anarchist, as an anti-determinationist, as I don't know what else, and I automatically take the way to my house. I'm fine after I handed it over. But that's what we need to see. Well, if you ever catch a man throwing molotov on your face and condemning him, I told you what I'm going to do. I said not to explode. At some point, however, the Greek people cannot hear these things, they want peace. Here they go into the universities, do whatever they want, break the chains, come the other one and says "good you did and broke the chain and cut it with a chainsaw".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u69	We're on the back. You should have said "bravo".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u70	All right, we'll tell you "bravo", when we have to, but at the moment I don't see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u71	You don't see that either.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u72	Article 374: Distinguished theft. Why EUR 120,000 the value of stealing? As it was, at 60,000 euros. Let's see that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u73	Because it's horizontal in all configurations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u74	Well, Mr. Lappa, you're the counsel of the Minister now, we know that, since you're together. Yeah, you're laughing. You're tearing up your jackets, you earn what you want, you're passing what you want, you're fond of him. Everything's fine!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Mylonakis, then you tell me that time is not enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u76	Yes, Mr. President, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Lappa's trap was that to eat you time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u78	I know, that's why I'm telling you. Look, I'm talking 12 minutes and sixteen seconds and I'm going to be consistent in time. Seventeen minutes I've spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u79	Don't worry, you'll have the same treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u80	Let's go to the bank's infidelity. Now you're done here, you're done. Such love for these people who have given loans - the so-called sea loans - EUR 1.8 billion with interest, please! More than a hundred people are in the interrogator's process. What about these people? In other words, the story "we do it for the Greek people" again! What Greek people? For those who have received loans! Slowly not the banker sits down and discusses with Mylonakis who has taken a loan for his home to make him a better price and will tell him "Come, pay them!" And can I tell you something else? You admitted a few days ago that with 1% sold to foreign funds, the "brows". With 1%! So why didn't the banks call these people who have received a loan from that bank? And I don't want to say it. With 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, up to 5% sold 40 billion euros and we have another 80 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen, which are ready to be sold, in accordance with the plan 'HERAKLIS'. The banks must clean up, but together with the banks, the bankers and the senior executives, who have given the whole of their hearts to the parties the loans with one -- says -- logo, "What are you? New Republic’. Since it's a New Democracy, he'll always get the grant. Come on, let's go that New Democracy's 30% down to 10% in 2013 and then rejoined and the grant was reduced! Come on, let's see if SYRIZA was 40%, 33%, 35%, 37%, and soon he'll be down to 4%, and he won't have the tickets to come here. What's going on? But the bank executives have been acquitted, no one pays it, sea-loving will be erased and the Greek people will pay it all. Cheers! Thank you so much! We'll pay for it, we don't have a problem. You have protected hundreds of big businessmen, parties and so on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have left at the end - and I conclude - Article 110 on conditional dismissal. From seventeen years to twenty-two. Okay, the maximum is twenty-two. I told you again, either you kill one or ten kill ten times, ten times life, twenty-two years, you'll be comfortable and nice in your home. Our proposal for dismissal under conditions is that those who are serving isovirus or more than twenty years should not be made redundant. What's that supposed to mean? So you destroy a man, you kill him, or you rob him, and you leave him disabled, you eat twenty-five years and you go out? Never! You're gonna sit in there! That's the philosophy of the code, otherwise you don't have to. And to finish, we believe an effort has been made. The truth is that, because L.4619 of July was a mess. Even now at the last minute we tell you to bring back the crime of blasphemy, malicious blasphemy. When you curse the Aunt, Jesus Christ, you should be punished when you burn the Holy Bank with a devotion work, you should be severely punished, and you should not be punished only when you curse Muhammad and Allah. And there, of course, is a crime, but this is where we have become racist against the Greeks. That is the point now, that we have distinguished things here. On other points, Minister, as you have been told, he wants even more boldness. We dared. The Greek solution at first says yes, on the articles we have said, we will vote against some others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u81	Me too, Mr. Mylonakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theory of thirty-nine students and students and two attendants of the Private Gymnasium Diamantopoulou from Aigaleo (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are closing the motions with Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou from Mera25. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said so far by the Ministry and by the forces of Opposition for the amendments. It is a lot and a lot of serious issues. Let me begin by reminding the Minister's position at the committee meeting last week. So you said, among other things, that the biggest problem in general parliamentary debates is that the reality is one and each of us is trying to approach it either through an ideological reference in general or through the interpretation he gives to this reality. Nevertheless, reality does not change. The concern about this is not self-evident, namely that the reality is transforming it into its personal truth or belief, using tools either ideologically or idiosyncratically, the major issue is that the pluralist interpretation of reality is rather the biggest problem in parliamentary debates, according to the statement by the Minister. However, if they are not expressed, if there are no different views, proposals, prospects, and indeed in Parliament, we are all aware of what we will have at the end and where this criticism leads. Do we have an authentic performer of everything, an official performer of everything, and we don't know about it? What we describe as the biggest problem is, in fact, the quintusia and the blessing of democracy, multifactorial analysis, composition, osmosis of ideas and approaches, weighting for balance at the ideal point. All disputes and consents are salt, quintuosity of parliamentaryism. You have wondered about the fact that we are seeing a tightening up of the draft law, of the amendments. The reality is, therefore, that the majority of the provisions of the draft law relating to the Criminal Code provide for either an extension of sentences or a widening of deportation to behaviours which, until now, were criminally indifferent. It is, therefore, undeniable that stricter standards are being promoted in general. That is what the empirical observation and comparison tells us, not the ideological or the same interpretation of reality. In some cases stricterisation is indeed justified and proportionate. We are talking about the equation of criminal treatment between passive and active bribery of officials, judges, politicians, the inclusion of the State Secretarys and Article 173 on the prisoner's escape. In other cases, however, tightening is legally and legally unjustly unjustified. The lawyers are aware of a fundamental principle, self-evident about the theory and action of criminal law. We already meet it in the ancient laws of Assyrians, Babylonians, Egyptians, Greeks, in the letter to the Romans of Apostle Paul, in Magna Carta of 1215, in the American and French Constitution. It is standardized in Latin even the great Johann Feuerbach, who, as a member of the lawmaker of the Bavarian Criminal Code, introduces it there in 1813 and is established in all the Criminal Codes and Constitutions, such as in our Constitution in Article 7(1). It is the famous 'nullum crimen, nulla poena sine lege' principle which requires that there be a specific law prohibiting an act, so that the perpetrator can subsequently be punished. This law cannot be as we want or as every time it is convenient. It must be clear, 'certa', that is, the saying. There is neither a crime nor a penalty is imposed without a law in force prior to the execution of the act and specifying its details. That's what our Constitution says. Let's come to the articles. Article 187a: You are setting up general risk crimes. You use a term that does not respond to our criminal law, a neologic who is unknown to us. In the recital, it states: ‘The reference to commonly dangerous crimes is replaced by the reference to general risk crimes, so that it is quite clear that it includes not only the crimes of the tenth chapter of the specific part of the Criminal Code, but all the crimes that create a risk to an indefinite number of persons’. I'm sorry, but that's not a justification. You don't exactly tell us why you're doing it, but what you're doing. It is quite clear that you are expanding the list of crimes, otherwise you would have left it or limited it. However, it is the clear thing that the principle of legality requires. Clearly it means describing exactly what these illegal acts are. Instead, you are, in a dangerous way, opening up a huge amount of crimes which poses a risk to an vague number of people. Neither what kind of danger you say to us, nor to what legal good the act will turn, nor what will there be a vague number of people. Is the general population or do two people or even one? Neither in the committee nor in the board of bodies did we resolve exactly what you want to say. When experienced, therefore, and qualified lawyers cannot end up, it is certainly impossible to speak about clarity about the average person. What is the legal certainty we guarantee for the citizen? Is what was understood by the prosecutors at the hearing, namely that they will be dealt with further and in a timely manner by the case-law? But case law is not fixed, nor is it fixed, nor can it replace the law. On the other hand, it can be followed by a later case law, which comes to overthrow the earlier case. In case of case-law, there are questions controversial for decades, and here in a vague legal sense other issues are added, and indeed in a misguided field, such as terrorism. So vague acts are suddenly standardised as crimes of terrorism. Actions that give rise to general risk, not even specific or some explanation, to understand what we are talking about. In criminal law listing acts and objective cases of criminal offences is not foreign to our legal reality. In our codes and special criminal laws very often we find lists of crimes and more ways of committing them. For example, thirty - two ways of executing mentions, for example, Article 20 of the Drugs Act on the crime of trafficking, twenty - two references to individual offences and groups of crimes had the old 187a. If we go back to Union law, we'll see that this happens all the time. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] We agree that it is not the most elegant solution to the ropes, but it is certainly better than any vagueness. There is, therefore, a way of greater clarity in which our system - and it is understood - is fully familiar. It is therefore a question of why we do not choose it in this way and instead present an anti-constitutional broom provision that runs counter to the principles of criminal law and the liberal criminal doctrine. Let us return to other commitments made by the Minister. We will not allow the criminal code to remain a punishable instrument. As good intentions exist, it is impossible to believe this promise by seeing what you propose on various issues. For example, I mention travel and apprenticeship at 187a when they relate to terrorist purposes, possession of molotov, distinguished theft, public works, violation of judicial decisions, disruption of privacy, and even unintentional and specific justification for the decisions to measure the sentence. You have therefore decided to incorporate Directive 541 in relation to terrorist acts. First of all, let's make a clarification. The directives are legislative acts which define an objective to be achieved by all the countries of the European Union. However, it is for each country to adopt its own laws to achieve these objectives. The same Article 288 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that the directive is binding on the countries to which it is addressed, but also on the result to be achieved does not touch the competence of the national authorities in terms of type and means. So what does it mean to incorporate? That the Member State is required to transpose the content of the Directive into national law, or that, in the end, there is a commitment to adapt the outcome of the directive to domestic, social and anti-crime needs? Criminal law itself must respond to the modern needs of each society, at a given historic moment. High penalties have been shown not to be dissuasive in the end to reduce crime indicators. Greece already has an extremely strict framework of special criminal laws than the strictest in Europe. This, however, has not led to a reduction in crime. So we ask: What social requirements and need in Greek reality arises from this extreme criminalisation of education or travel? You are committing education and travel when it comes to terrorist purposes, i.e. when it comes back to the future and depends respectively on other uncertain actions in the future. It is worth standing here because you are objectively criminalising conduct neutrality, such as apprenticeship in a particular subject or travel to a particular destination, which cannot in themselves cause harm, not only but not even risks to legal goods. The injustice therefore arises and is standardised only on the basis of the perpetrator's deceit, which should receive training in order to make it or worse to contribute to the execution of the terrorist offence. However, the purpose cannot be objectively or through empirically, so-called lessons of common experience that are often found in the case-law, neither in the type of teaching material, nor in the frequency of visits to electronic websites, nor in the living courses, as stated in the explanatory memorandum to the directive. It is worth pointing out here, of course, that in the same recital Member States are even called upon to criminalise self-teaching, downloading, downloading a manual for the construction of explosives, provided that they can somehow be linked to a terrorist purpose. This may not be expressly mentioned by the provision, but we know very well what it means to its ad hoc interpretation by case law. As far as travel is concerned, it is not first of all clear that you understand the word 'travel'. When does the travel process start and what does it include? Is it starting from the issue of a ticket, from the preparation of luggage, from the transfer to the transit station, from the beginning of the journey to the destination itself? Is the final destination of the trip considered part of the journey or is the operation now completed? Maybe this stay is also part of the trip, so we're talking about a quasi-permanent crime? These questions are therefore important, because they could answer key questions in relation to the attempt and the withdrawal. An air ticket issue appears to be capable, at least, of being executed and attempted by terrorist offences and possibly terrorist offences as such, if it is understood that the procedure includes all the previous necessary acts. Let us look at other examples, respectively. Let him begin moving and eventually does not reach the destination or join the terrorist group or take part in any activity for any reason. Then what logic are we going to find behind a convict for the trip? Let us also set another example. If a person plans to break into a residence, can we arrest it when he leaves his house with the gloves in his pocket and convict him of stealing or attempting to steal, without even having done more? Sparaphas would say that the purpose of the perpetrator can be conceived from objective evidence, and that, of course, is true. Is it enough, however, to get to criminalisation and, indeed, to extreme criminalisation? But then we'll be talking about an acceptable punishment for the mind. This is, of course, unheard of of a liberal and justice system of criminal law, unless you have finally chosen to move away from this system, i.e. if you think that we have the right to return to a reasonably forced law of '47 and the peculiar name of Venizelos. We have to make it clear under what regime, of course, these criminalisations have emerged. Starting with the American Act on Violent Radicalisation after 11 September, we reach Directive 541 of '17 after Bataklan, where many provisions were laid down and voted under a lack of cooling and based on the principle of feasibility 'the purpose sanctified the means'. So many criminalisation choices, already in relation to the directive, are being blamed for violations of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, since they turn into crimes that do not yet cause any unjust offence, i.e. they result in a crime without a criminal act of interest. Of course, to us, such provisions are contrary to Articles 2, 5, 7 and 25 of the Constitution, and they are totally rejected in a criminal law which punishes simply harmful or effectively dangerous action and not the mind, will and purpose. It is also known that EU law is not just directives, it is also fundamental conditions, such as the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which the directive seems to be being circumvented. I would like to refer here to the mere occupation of molotov. You are turning the simple occupation of molotov into protests or marches. We do not claim that possession of molotov should not be punished. However, the increase in the stubbornness you are promoting in terms of molotov ignores the principle of proportionality, because, firstly, the mere possession, under any circumstances, creates, at most, a risk and has not yet been transformed into a harmful act. Secondly, because under the same circumstances other possessions of much more dangerous things are punishable with much lighter penalty, for example, revolver or pistol guns are being imprisoned between six months and five years old. As far as social work is concerned, I will not go into the matter of suspension. Previous speakers have been mentioned. However, with your forecasts of working hours, you will ultimately not allow the convicted person to work at the same time as a hired worker to maintain himself. In the case of violations of judgments, you also have a very strict framework of penalties. Finally, when it comes to disturbing peace, you are promoting a heavier criminal treatment of this behaviour than what was previously the case, since you have been in prison for up to five months and a penalty of up to EUR 15 000. So we wonder how the Greek legislature evaluates this crime so differently in a few months and what changed it to justify, suddenly, its heavier treatment in relation to the seniors? I shall refer to some inquiries into the penalties in our country. Our country has twice as high an estimated penalty of over five years and about five times that of ten to twenty years between all the countries of the Council of Europe. The estimated life sentences constitute 13.1% in Greece compared with 1.7% in all the countries of the Council of Europe. We have a hundred and forty prisoners for life in Germany of ninety million and a thousand isoviites in Greece of eleven million. Since 2000, cases of temporary detention have doubled and the sentences imposed have tripled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u83	Please finish, Mrs. Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u84	I shall now conclude, Mr President. So we have a system of criminal law which is extremely strict both in the threatened penalties and, ultimately, in the imposition. I don't have time to talk about infidelity. I already spoke to the committee. The above findings therefore suggest the main communication management of crime by the Ministry of Justice and the Government. We are talking about a maximist tactic of the patterns of'shock dogma', which is trying to have a little fun in the scientific unfounded concerns of the voter's shares, that we are supposedly having a greedy crime that should be dealt with with by unreasonable and disproportionate criminalisations. Finally, a point on anti-crime policy. Faced with the punishing and repressive anti-crime policy, it has been shown that much more effective in dealing with crime, it is an organised and consistent crime prevention policy. We are talking about social prevention. It is the one whose measures, in essence, are intended to combat those forensic factors that lead to crime going through. Internationally it has proved to be the best anti-crime policy, because it requires positive measures aimed at all citizens and aimed at satisfying their basic social needs and social rights: housing, nutrition, education, work, etc. The problem, therefore, is that it is chosen to vote for a criminal provision, because this is the easiest solution that costs less, while the organisation of social policy requires more effort and more public social spending. So the question arises as follows: is there a political will for such a preventive anti-crime policy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, too. The circle of rapporteurs with Mrs Adamopoulos has been closed. We shall proceed with the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u87	Please, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u88	I see here that in the amendment to Article 5(2), paragraph 2, that is to say, the conversion, the change to Article 390, you delete it and you move the provision to Article 405. What amendment do you have to carry out?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u89	He's been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u90	They've been filed. I have them here. But what amendment? The one with the four articles? Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u91	It is an amendment that has it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u92	It is not a self-evident amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u93	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u94	I ask you to transfer it to self-interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Loverdos. So I was saying that we are moving on to the speaker's circle. In order not to make seven minutes, five and we have complaints, you will keep the seven minutes at all. They are already sixty-eight Members who have to speak again will stay outside. Please very much. To hear it, too, by the radio and watch by television.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u97	Please, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u98	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Loverdos, is absolutely right in relation to his request. I think it's a crucial issue. The right thing to do is to transfer this provision to a separate amendment so that the economy of the debate can also be organised in such a way that it is clear what is to be said on the part of the other parties in opposition. There is, of course, also the question of the possibility of a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much. Let me inform Mr. Villardos of the Greek solution that Mr. Hetas is not deleted. He'll talk this afternoon, because he's in committee. Let's go to the speaker's circle. First one is Thessaloniki from what I see here. We will start with Mr Varzopoulou from New Democracy, followed by Mr. Giannoulis and Mr. Kastanides. You've got seven minutes tight, Mr. Varzopole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u100	I will be brief, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many very important lawyers in this Chamber. Therefore, let me not refer to specific articles, but to the general spirit of this draft law and, above all, to why that was necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, this has become necessary because precisely the radical left, which has governed us in recent years, has done what he has done throughout political life in the area of criminal justice. Despite the opposite, she applied her ideology in practice to antenna. A key element of this ideology is the notion of the injustice of the civil regime. In fact, this injustice is considered so decisive that, in theory, it is only in the last stage of history. So the duty of the conscious people in this theory is the resistance against the bourgeoisie. You realise that this alone creates an immediate sense of permitability, a sense of understanding of these actions, the resistance to the urban order of things. I shall say immediately, of course, that I am praying to agree with the view that the entire Left does not agree with all forms of act, neither with the content of the acts nor with the desirability of some of them. Nevertheless, everyone agrees on the final objective. So everyone agrees to the original motive. This means that, in this theory, there is a series of acts that run counter to the civil concept of law, but which have understandable motives, but many are understandable and partly permitted. What are these actions? There are many acts that have an ideological mark. These acts are deeds against either ignorant or embodied symbols of the so-called 'principal order'. Acts against impeccable symbols are those of the reasoning, as they are said, of the 'Rubicon', for example, against the impeccable symbols of capitalism is shameful terrorism. This means that there is a perception that the motives of these acts, although we disagree with them, are, in many cases, understandable. Apart from these acts with an ideological mark, there are other acts without an obvious ideological mark. These, for example, are the violent attachment of wealth by the occupants. We are the bourgeoismen who call it 'blocked'. There are some who say that this is an act of expropriation of expropriators. What matters, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that all these acts, all this complex of acts are acts that violate the civil concept of law. In other words, they are acts which are in breach of Community law and which are at least partly criminal. Ladies and gentlemen, you realise that when there is this sense of permitting, it is perfectly logical that we have practical phenomena, such as the Act of Friday. It makes perfect sense to have practical phenomena, such as the provision of catering facilities with police patrols after attacks, if any, against the Greek Parliament and such as the facilities of the baroness penalties, and the frequent licenses even to serial killers. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a completely different approach. You want to call her idealistic? You want to call her liberal? You want to call her conservative? Tell her as you wish. But our basic view is freedom of self-determination, freedom of will, which immediately creates the concept of guilt. Anyone who harms this self-determination and, of course, the property that is an essential part of this self-determination is guilty. So the guilty one should be conscientious. Until he is contemptuous, society should be protected from this guilty man. Here, of course, the concept of resilience is immediately born. You realise that it is inversely proportional to the need to protect society. The more severe the guilt, the less the susceptibility to prison, the greater we need to protect society. That's what makes this draft law. It restores provisions that shield society from terrorism. They are reinvigorating the possession, for example, of explosives. They allow penalties to be higher for those who violate the law when they are empty. They increase the time the polyisoviers have to serve until they have the ability to leave prisons. And there are a number of other provisions. What does all this mean? Ladies and gentlemen, that means simply that the civil concept of public order comes back, at least at a legal level. As you can see, on a practical level the Greek Police already implements it and will apply it in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too, and congratulations on keeping time. Mr Christos Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes strictly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister - although you are absent - ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago we had an interview with Mr Varzopoulou...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, without a Minister for discussion, it is not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u104	What can I do, Mr. Loverdo? Can I stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u105	It is a frustration of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u106	I have no objections to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u107	The House is addressed to the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Loverdos is right. And neither is there a State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u109	Undersecretary anyway didn't exist in the first place. And it's remarkable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u110	We can interrupt, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u111	We will therefore wait until the Minister returns to continue with Mr Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u112	The adjournment of the session shall be resumed. Mr Giannoulis, you have the floor to continue your speech. I've been putting time on you all along.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u113	However, Mr. Colleague, no one spoke of a catheter. If you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u114	Please very much, Mr. Giannoulis. Please, too! Continue with your speech, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u115	But that's not things!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u116	I agree with Mrs. Canelley. No one spoke of a catheter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Giannoulis, please. Leave what they said. Continue your speech, please. It's over. The Minister's here and we're on our way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u118	I want to remind you that, first of all, we're not in a schoolroom. My speech is made up of arguments and views that I choose and are not judged by you. If it's out of time or out of order, you can lie to me. But what I'm gonna say...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u119	That conversation you said at the beginning, I didn't like it. That's why I told you. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u120	Minister, welcome, despite the slight delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u121	There's no reason to comment on what everyone said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u122	We cannot speak at the same time, Mr President. They don't even do that on TV.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u123	Yes, of course. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u124	I was saying that a few months ago with Mr Varzopoulou happened to meet us as an interviewee. I understood that, today, he confirmed something very simple, which honors him as a political attitude, but it is a little hard to hear and cynical, that there is a genuine right-wing approach to political things, and that must also be applied to the Criminal Code. I remember you told me, I'm perpendicular, I think the Left does not have a place in Greece of the "housewives" right? But you know, I grew up in a family of law. My grandfather had a lawyer's number at Katerini number two. And my father then followed legal science. They taught me or I listened to it - and it is my experience - that it is a science that serves the advances and values of a people at the same time as everything else, and it must be preceded by it and not by the needs of a society. I'll open a parentheses here. I would point it out as a political observation that a New Democracy colleague will not be able to turn it into a propaganda tool again. We are living in the government's 'law and order' account, without, of course, the security indicators for Greek citizens being improved. That's for you to do, she wants art. It's not possible with automation. In this account of "law and order" important fields are affected and affected, the field of democracy and the state's self-sufficiency in law enforcement. I shall say this in simple words: the beating of citizens, passive, minors, over-aged does not send a message of legitimacy. It sends the opposite message. When, in fact, there is a serious gap in the control procedures of these excesses, when there are no procedures to control these few, but existent, men of the police with the hacks, who turn them into torture, we may hear in the public sphere what Mr Vorides said today, "Look at seeing, it is forced wood from the police." Wood is a forced treaty for the police! And we are talking today about democracy, a modern criminal code, about the administration of justice and values that are in full conflict with the statements of government officials. Even if I forget that you are expensive in pit and cheap in flour, as our people say, when it comes to offences concerning the wonderful world of white collars - it is the other topic - I really hope that Prime Minister Mitsotakis can answer as soon as possible to the former Prime Minister and President of SYRIZA, Mr Tsipras, the timely question that has been asked about this intolerance which exists to tackle the economic crime with the same data as you are trying to tighten up the Criminal Code. You know, I like history, too. Today the second part is released from the confession of the late Constantine Mitsotakis to Alexis Papachela. It is the part where, among other things, it evaluates the mentor, the spiritual supporter of the ‘law and order’ component of the New Democracy. I'm talking about Antonis Samaras. In this second part it describes him - it is a book that has been released and there is visual material - saying that he is ruthless, a bad politician, with excellent appeal to the small-party struggle. How was it not the spiritual leader of this component “law and order”? However, the late Constantine Mitsotakis had said something else - the older ones will remember - on a visit to the Direct Action between 1990 and 1993. He told the police: 'You are the state.' So he wonders not only the part that politically supports SYRIZA, but the whole of the Greek society - because the girls who pulled it from the hair within a radius of one kilometer from ASEAN are not sure that they vote SYRIZA, they may vote New Democracy and Change Movement, there is no easy identification on it - if you will do so in the next four years. This will be the dogma that will accompany the value of justice and its function, with the "law, order and cruelty"? If you intend to make it a political tool and send a message to your party audience, I wonder how you shield Greek justice and its award. Of course, Mr. Chiara, I'll recognize something. You are in a very difficult position, because your personal political formation, as well as your course and your term as secretary of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, necessarily conflicts with the "Samaic" component that I described and which calls for the doors of the stores to be broken, that the three hundred minions of a shop fall on their knees and more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I want your tolerance for a minute. This struggle is reflected in the spirit of the Criminal Code, Minister. Of course, you're lucky, because no one in SYRIZA is going to behave or foment cannibal behaviors and monstrous lies, as you did for the Law of Paradise. In conclusion, I would like to raise two points. As far as blasphemy is concerned, I express a personal appreciation that does not bind anyone. If you really mean your intention to act as a modern and timely provision to protect the religious faith of those living permanently or temporarily in this country - and I tell you, elected in the 1st Region of Thessaloniki, where today, in glory and honour, some celebrate the desecration of historical and religious monuments of the Jewish community of Thessaloniki, which is shameful to happen - one could think that this debate deserves to be held for refugees who will remain in Greece for some years. I close, speaking of a matter of political and social importance, which at least would provoke the political, but also my social reflexes, which we need to look at. I would ask the propaganda and perversion industry not to rush to work. I pray to say that we are in front of a danger that concerns both the children and the students. We have been talking for so many days about the occupation of ASEAN, about the entry into ASEAN, of the invasion of ASEAN. Let us have the courage political - I am not saying the Criminal Code - to assess how things are done in one country. For example, a schoolteacher was arrested at the Vineyards on the grounds of sharing with the children of the sixth grade a text which concluded that the Prespes Agreement was a betrayal and result of political work by the atheists and schools in Giannitsa and Katerini raise the banners - because this has been discussed and that is why - where, in short, they say "Outside the illegal immigrants from Greece". For me to participate in a political body or in the government in the legislature, I would be much more concerned with many other matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Yannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I would like the floor for something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u127	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u128	I would ask you to do something more, Minister. In Article 405, paragraphs 2 and 3 have been removed from the Legislative Committee since June that one paragraph has been abducting the other. In other words, paragraph 2 eliminates the criminality of certain acts if the person who has committed them to 100% if this is done before his call as a suspect to explain in paragraph 3, precisely in the same articles, in the same cases, the criminal is removed until he is referred to the audience. Look at it. There's a mistake here. It's a parable and it's good that it doesn't exist. Please fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u129	You mean it's from last time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u130	Yeah, since June.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much Mr. Loverdo. I would ask Mr. Charalambos Kastanides to come to Stepma from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I fully support the request made by the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement a moment ago, that the amendment to Rule 405 be an autonomous amendment, not included in a text with more amendments relating to other articles. This request was supported by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. It is the equivalent of the arrangements you have made in Article 7 of the planned draft, in which you include sixty - please - paragraphs, which amend the Code of Criminal Procedure in force as from 1 July 2019, and in which amendments include positive regulations and other negative ones, so that the Member cannot judge them separately. I would ask you to do that, because otherwise, it will not just be a question of poor legislation, but, up to the point of saying, it is a question of legal fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, because time is relentless, I will try to summarise my remarks on some fundamental issues. I shall start with a general remark. What the Government proposes to amend the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure are distinguished into two types of arrangements. It is the arrangements of the Legislative Committee that are generally right and the proposals for amendments to the two codes at the initiative of the Minister of Justice, the Government's initiative, which are, as a rule, incorrect. I shall not go into the motions for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on crimes against bribery, corruption and terrorism, but I shall remain on the initiative of the Government. The legislator is diligent. In Article 168, the Ministry of Justice, paragraph 3, is to be added in order to protect the premises where employees carry out auctions under the law of forced execution. The arrangements introduced by the diligent legislator by adding paragraph 3 to Article 168 shall include penalties less than the penalties already in force under the provisions of 168.1 of the Criminal Code and 334(1) of the Criminal Code. In other words, if creditors are asking for heavier penalties, the Government is recommending the addition of a third paragraph, but the penalties provided for in the addition are less than those already in force in Articles 168.1 and 334.1. I did not hear the amazing legal argument during the discussions in the parliamentary committee that this is necessary because there is a distinction between civil servants and civil servants. I still learn legally. Secondly, the third case should be added, Mr Minister, to Article 290a, which concerns those 'which are, when driving the vehicle, other as dangerous to the safety of the transport'. This includes over-speeding, because in the way set out in Article 290a, a person who leads a technically insecure vehicle will be punished by imprisonment of ten to 15 years, while someone who drives over-speedly, gets on the sidewalk, kills, as happened with her grandma and her granddaughter, will be punished by imprisonment of up to five years, if the regulation that I propose to you for the speed is not included. Mr President, I now come to Rule 390, which the Government originally attempted to amend, and now transfers the amendment to Article 405 of the existing Criminal Code, to explain by a few minutes what the huge mistakes of the legal policy committed by the Government are. The government wants, especially for the members of the financial institutions, when they have a malicious infidelity against their institutions, to be prosecuted at the indictment of their own institutions and not on their own initiative, and so far all crimes of malicious infidelity have been automatically persecuted. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the exceptionally indicted persecution of malicious infidelities against the property of banking institutions is about institutions for which the Greek people pay a great deal of money for their recapitalisation. I would also remind you that, if bank officials are being prosecuted, the person concerned is only the person concerned, i.e. the person in question is the legal representative, most of the time, that is to say, the manager, who will know at the outset the execution of infidelity, so in three months' time, if the indictment is not submitted, the crime of felony in fact remains an endless crime. This is what I consider, for a people who suffered during the crisis and still pressed, to be completely legally unacceptable. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u133	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u134	That is why the Change Movement has already tabled an amendment that is correct, in my view, if we have to deal with the phenomenon of public prosecutor inflation. According to our amendment, according to our view, the prosecution of felonious infidelities against financial institutions must remain absolutely unequivocal and we put the Bank of Greece as a procedural requirement for the prosecution, as was the case with the regulations of Law 4472, to testify, within a specific deadline, that financial damage was actually caused to the bank's property in breach of the rules of sound and diligent management. In this way, it remains the general guiding criminal rule that the malicious infidelities are persecuted on their own initiative and a positive procedural requirement is laid down in order not to observe the phenomenon that I characterised as 'prosecuting inflation'. Finally, Mr President - and I would like to thank you for your tolerance - I would suggest that the Government broaden its own prosecuting, along with the malicious infidelity, for the malicious fraud, for the felonious misappropriation and for computer-based felony. I think that these are serious crimes, which must be abolished by the exception of 405 and made subject to the general rule of self-prosecuting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Castanides. Mrs Lianna Kanelle, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to be a detailed article. There have been discussions, the companions have exhibited them in detail and well. I am here to tell you what the world we are talking about every day - I imagine you too - is not easy on this step here. So people hire that you're playing a game almost cowboy with the Criminal Code, you of the SYRIZA, the previous government that was also colluding a long time, and the New Democracy Government. The KKE was up and gone when you brought the SYRIZA code. Was he gone because? For different reasons than those which are today and which could also go back on the substance? How'd you bring it? Just before the election? And what dominates it from then on? Are you going to convince us that you have substantial differences in the Criminal Code? You don't have one! You only play in the mentality, which is a bad thing for criminal law in general, using the Criminal Law and the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure to cater for part of the public's comments or - within introductory terms - 'utilized' or 'unfavourable', whose are the 'benefit' on the one hand, and whose will be the 'benefit' on the other hand from the earlier changes of the code to the present. What's he doing today with the modification? What amendment are we talking about? What progress? It has accepted 70%, 80%, 90% of the code, as you brought it before the elections. But there are some ridges, too, which are too good to put them in a debate and bring them down. Public opinion has become familiar with this concept, so it seems to be a little disagreement with the sentence on it, with the sentence down like a front-end bed, in which you have actually put the workers, the workers' reactionaries for what is happening. Can I get an example? Okay, electronic auctions have removed the world's right to go and protest. They've removed it. Didn't you have it? You didn't institutionalize it, where they're bringing it here now? What are you doing now? Because people can get "pressive" and where exactly the electronic auction takes place, don't go there either. You protected the peace courts, these here are still protecting the office. But the electronic auction runs. The people's house can come out. So what do we care? Do not move. You do not disagree not to move cards in fact. It is a reality, you cannot deny it. Can we move on a little bit further? You put the general concepts, which are relatively recent in the general concept of law and criminal law, and entered the concept of 'bazaar'. How will you now explain to the world that it is for the good of the amendment when it can be made 'bazaar'? Go on, understand a murder, go understand the confession of guilt of a murder, real and visible, almost self-proof, the way it turned out to be. When we go to economic crime, there will be people, the frontmen, as they say, who go in front and go to bargain for huge economic crimes that produce poverty, misfortune and victims who do not seem and do not relate to the narrow concept of the common criminal law. What happens then? The other one's going to negotiate and close the door from the back. Travel issue here too! The "law and order" you are trying to demonize it and you are trying to demean it by playing with the fires, the flames, the images, with this, with that, with the other one. What law? Whose law is it? What class? Whose class is this class? That's where we're going. That's where we're going. You legalize it, there's a fight here and we're playing it with a clientele approach. Right now the concept of general risk fits everything, fits breathing, can at any time criminalize anything from anyone. What have you done with the two parties when we told you to abolish the 'terror' and to discuss differently? Now who of you can say that there are procedural guarantees for someone who surfs at a terrorist level on the Internet, even out of curiosity, leaving thousands of crimes on the “dark web”, that is, on the bottom of the internet? With the unmistakable and the great capital that no one can catch, why does no one want to catch it, why does power produce it, what the colleague and psychiatrist called 'the civil order a privilege to judge what is right and what is right at times'? I received a degree in law when McGakis was a professor and the Tsagarakis sisters were tried for whoever remembers and gets in to see them, with other arson approaches and other perceptions. Then I got a degree, very back, too back. And the truth is that democracy is seen in criminal law, it appears in criminal law, it seems to be on the approach, it seems to be the prosperous way in which the threat of punishment is a guarantee of general prosperity. When general prosperity and security have made it a tip in your policy, the debate about a code with sixty sub-paragraphs, eighty interpretations, huge wide terms that come in, easily covered by a "one molotov" or "the weapon"? Is it the crime hand or isn't it? Is it a criminal instrument or isn't it? Depends. Is it a knife or not a knife? Who adjusts before and who adapts after? Where's the penalty bigger? In this? And where's the sentence down? In fact, who is the weak and who is the strong, who has the knife and who has the pin? When the trip is something based on surveillance, who travels, where it travels, why it travels, how it goes and who meets, in the era of selfies manufactured, you understand how far you can build a right that is in the order of order that wants to hide its interests, making the protector through the Criminal Law and the intimidation of the working class, which has to run away until he does not react. Do you want to go to a “long of the tomb silence”? You won't succeed. Note only that by strengthening the order of order, you arrive to ask for a policeman to abandon power. When that moment comes, you will understand what criminal law you are talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor, but for a few seconds only.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u140	An intervention has already been made in respect of Article 405 of the Criminal Code and a contradiction between paragraphs 2 and 3. I would like to say that this provision repeats the provision in Article 406 of the previous Criminal Code and in substance says that if we are satisfied with the condition before the examination as a suspect, we have eliminated the plight, which is the institution of the substantive criminal law. However, if prosecution has been carried out, there can be no extinction of the criminal and the third paragraph explains that the only one who can get rid of the sentence is either the judiciary or the court. Therefore, it is not contradictory that the provisions serve the same purpose. Just in one case we have an institution of effective criminal law, namely the elimination of expulsion, and in the second case we have a procedural provision concerning the waiver of the penalty. It's two different things that serve the same purpose.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u142	In any case, time should go before the suspect is examined.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u143	It's not a contradiction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u144	It's a contradiction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u145	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u148	It is a contradiction, but to reach agreement on what we mean 'controversy'. Minister, this is always a prerequisite for satisfaction. In one case the criminal is removed if the satisfaction of the person concerned occurs before his first call as a suspect. Clear. To the other, until his irrevocable reference to the audience.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u149	And the audience.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u150	He's getting rid of the sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Janakopoulou, let's hear Mr. Loverdo. The Minister is one of the ministers they hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u152	He's getting rid of the sentence. Contrary to the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities has ruled that the Court of First Instance has jurisdiction to hear and determine a case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. You should decide which one of the two cases covers you. We, it covers us everything that moves in a positive direction. Now, as it is - I tell you with the strength of experience - there is a problem and there will be a problem of assessment for the judge in a number of cases before him. Pick one of the two. We would have chosen comfortably - I heard my colleague - the first case. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u153	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u154	Look at it. That's a good set-up. Why would that contradiction be in the sense of explaining it? If you listen to this with sympathy, then you can see the proposal of both parties. If we go to Article 405 with an improvement, include your own amendment there for 390. It's a special subject. We ask you to do this after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u156	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u157	I think we can agree that this is not a contradiction. However, there is a classification of the conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u158	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u159	In the first, it is sufficient for the legislator and simply to declare that he has been satisfied. In the second, satisfaction must be effective, that is to say, capital, places and everything else that it entails. I, however, agree that we can improve it legally and all these conditions to include them in a single regulation. Minister, this can be seen until the end of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u160	I think the Minister will see it because, as I said before, it is one of the ministers he listens to. Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis from Mera25 has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Canelli's previous intervention was indeed excellent. I wouldn't have much to add. Perhaps I will try to give some additional information light and keep the debate on the big picture. We are talking here about a number of issues, such as the re-exploitation of public silence, the fraudulent crimes of travel and education. It could in a context of this, with a very detailed document, not divert our democracy. But when we have a police force that has political orders to work on the law in order to look at political goals, or at times because some police members have ideological concepts and distinguish citizens in left-wing or right-wing, revolutionaries or pigs etc., then all of this, unfortunately, is at the expense of democracy. The big problem is that from the previous SYRIZA government, but also over time from all governments, no one has ever put restrictions on this monopoly of violence and these superpowers for the freedom of every man given to the Greek Police. And this has to do with how the so-called SADs work or do not work. It is something that no government has touched. This impunity, which has been condemned internationally, is the one arming the hand for the democratic diversion to specific members of the police, which embarrasses the police, a possible majority of the police, but it is also the one who will use what we are voting on today. I shall refer to specific facts. Firstly, since ASE is so topical, it is the complaints that have been published and I make them available for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is the twenty-five-year-old student, Giannis Pachakis, who has not yet entered the ASAOE and simply followed the call of the student clubs - not some balakies, as it is reported - to attend outside. Being outside at some point was repulsed by a platoon. When a police officer, as Pachakis himself denounces in his interview, actually had sex with a girl, and he had a fight against him for sexual harassment, so he was targeted, his car was spotted and the same night he was held. He was arrested outside his house, like he was a dangerous terrorist. He was found in custody. Thirteen hours have passed since he was brought and more than seven hours since his arrest at three o'clock in the morning, to allow him to speak to a lawyer. Apparently, he was then accused of violence to the police, which was never recorded in all these marches that have been more complete than the television networks. This is the work of legislation. Then, in Kalpaki, in Yannina, a citizen who went to take part in the festive demonstrations of the Kalpakii battle, was asked by a police officer with politicians to come out on the grounds that he participated in demonstrations against mining last day. It was not allowed to enter women dressed in traditional uniforms and dance continentally in a mining protest, as a photographer was not allowed to record the facts. Yesterday, citizens protesting the expansion of the port of Piraeus were arrested while walking in Makrigiannis. They didn't do anything. It wasn't at a demonstration. They had a banner in their possession. They were found at the police station and really if it weren't our mobilisation, as Mera25, I think they wouldn't have been released yet. Why? Because they were holding a banner. They hadn't opened it. It was wrapped banners who had it simply in their possession. Not to mention, of course, what has happened in Skouria with a mandate from the Prime Minister at the time, Mr Samaras, this investment in destruction at all costs. The sacrifice was the citizens. The calls of the whole town of Ierissos were recorded for months. A false, targeted indictment was created, politically, that there was the establishment of a terrorist organization where someone who called it "Dimitris", had a code name "Dimitris" etc. They were, of course, acquitted by all these people, but they were hostages for too many years. The indictment fell because there was no indictment. This is the tooling, and these are the tools we are giving with these changes in the Criminal Code at the moment. It is crucial because even though this government and those who do not look at the SADs, it continues to be unpunished any abuse of power, it continues to be unpunished any violation of the democratic rights of a citizen, such as calling the lawyer, such as knowing why he is being arrested, that is what is being destroyed every day, then it is the democracy that is in danger. And if today these are directed against students, adolescents and students, tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, they may be your own children. And tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, you can see another person from the police with these abuses and impunity as citizens. Because you know, I'm afraid too many people here judge on the basis of the face of the police as officials. Get out into society. The situation is very different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr. Velopoulos has been asked to speak, but I do not see him in the Chamber. So I'll give the floor to the Minister of Justice, Mr. Chiara.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that at least in the committee responsible there has been an exhaustive debate and I think that most of the issues raised by the honourable representatives of the other parties, rapporteurs and special speakers have been answered, I am also obliged to give concrete answers to the National Delegation. I'll start by making a statement. The fact that there are both fires on both sides to reform, changes in a new Criminal Code, shows that the government with its choices really moves on the path of media, on the path of moderation. And I think that this is the basic conclusion that can be kept, when a criticism is made, I would say in a quite unfair way, in my view, it is simply being exercised for opposition logic and for opposition purposes. What are these changes that we are trying to legislate today with the new Criminal Code? These are the problems, ladies and gentlemen, which have actually been raised since the first day of implementation of the new Criminal Code, from 1-7-2019. I was very sorry to hear the rapporteur from the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs talking to us about the importance of the new Criminal Code and why the opposition was absent on the day of the debate on the Criminal Code and why we are criticising and why we are making such rapid changes. I think that, at some point, hypocrisy in this Chamber must be stopped. And it must stop for obvious reasons of logic and of course for obvious reasons which serve Greek society and Greek citizens. The creation of the new Criminal Code starts in 2010. A mockery of almost a decade ago, prominent figures of legal science - I will agree - who have participated in many different legislative committees and come to a limit - if you like - integration through which the parties are called upon to place themselves and, of course, to do so, to agree. The Criminal Code is the creation of a party? Is that what we think? Is it the creation of an ideological approach, which can symptomically have a party that is in power, to the government over a period of time? It is not the legislation that concerns all Greek society and which - rightly so - does not change from one day to the next, but takes decades? A hundred years - you mentioned - they passed for the first change, from 1823 - if I remember correctly - until 1950. So, this shouldn't have been a driver in your own jurisprudence, Honourable gentlemen of Officership? On what responsibility did you legislate one day before the House closed? What was the logic of dominating? What would really change if you would allow a month to pass even with a new parliament, with the presence of all the parties and with the agreement of all the parties - we had to find the common place obviously - we were legislating a Criminal Code which would have an overall - I would say - and at least universal parliamentary acceptance? And I had made an effort even though I'm not a legal person. I had made an appeal to colleagues, who are involved in the committee, to see better the issues described in the context of the proposed changes. Because when we come and criticise, we need to know exactly what the subject is and what the reason is for either making our point or expressing our opposition. Most changes in the Code of Criminal Procedure are verbal, verbal. The multitude of changes has to do with the fact that the previous government has legislated handy. He filed a Code of Criminal Procedure along with a Criminal Code and did not even have time to correct words, phrases, vocalisation points, all of which would make the text of the provisions clear. This on its own isn't a proof? Is it not a proof that the fall has been abolished and that administrative sanctions have not even been imposed in their place? Is it not proof that the government at that time through a reasonable ideological approach tried to legislate at a time when - which knew that the other parties were abstaining - just so that it could actually have a new Criminal Code a few days later? Is it not proof that the government is coming on June 28th to make thirteen changes to the Criminal Code and fifteen changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure with an act of legislative content 15 days later? Not all of this shows that you legislated in a way that was far away from the good legislature, far from the legalisation of a Criminal Code, which had to have a long chance of life and application in Greek law and in Greek society? That is a reality that cannot be questioned. So we come today to answer the question: why so quickly? But, ladies and gentlemen, some of my fellow Members have said so, regardless of whether you wish to serve a rhetoric dictated by the opposition parties, and I understand that - they have come to see that since the next day the Criminal Code has produced results which have been problematic. We were told by the judges during practical consultation. The judges told us when we called the agencies. That's right. They call it every day. Any of you, particularly lawyers and lawyers, have a contact with the judicial officers, I am sure that every day they are informed about the serious problems that the new implementation of the Criminal Code has caused. We didn't want a new Criminal Code? Of course we did. That's what I told you at the beginning of my position. Of course, we wanted a new Criminal Code, which will be in line with the philosophy that exists in European countries. That is why I told you, Mr Lappa, that the New Democracy took part in all stages of the debate. We participated in all stages of the debate and you resigned because we did not come to vote one day before the House closed, when there was no reason to speed up this process. Unless there was, which you know - I mean the dear colleagues who participated in the previous House on the part of the previous government - and it is understood that you should tell us that and we should know that. The main principles facing changes in the new Criminal Code are the issues of terrorism, yes, with the possession and use of molotov. It is an issue that has dealt with Greek society. I hope you've abandoned the doctrine that there's nothing wrong with someone carrying a molotov bomb in his backpack. Because reality is completely different and we know it. But I won't stay on this. It is a question of dealing with the underlying redundancies. Although you mentioned that there was essentially an increase in the limits on imprisonment, we now come to a point in satisfying the sense of common law. It was dealing with the issues that had tarnished the country's international image. Truth that Greece had become the subject of negative comments from the major international organisations in the OECD, GRECO, on the fact that you have damaged active bribery, will you say anything? Wasn't it a huge matter? You don't really think Greece was spreading too? There's been a whole conversation. I personally found myself in different places in Europe, where the permanent issue that was raised every hour and at a time was what Greece is doing with active bribery. Did you forget that then? And you come today to speak and create one - if you want - of opposition to an issue, which does not answer a logic that some want to offer to others. And of course I am talking about the fact that financial institutions will now be indicted, the decisions made by their executives, instead of the self-prosecuting that existed earlier. Do you know that in the same article you committed felony fraud and misappropriation? You know that? Do you know that? Look, I repeat. Or we will find a modus vivendi all of us that, in matters relating to justice, we have to agree - it is my view - on the logic of self-evidentness and on the logic of accepting certain rules that have always mentioned common sense or, if you want to simply oppose it, I can assure you that such arguments exist on either side, too much. So it is important to be able to achieve every time there is a legislative initiative on the part of the Ministry of Justice, to come to an end to it, and to agree that all together must establish rules, laws through which the Greek citizen will feel safe. That's the point. There is no further question of our debate. And we need to make that clear to each other. And because I have listened to Mrs Adamopoulos earlier to give up on the fact that there is a different reading from the parties in this matter, she obviously should read or take into account everything I have said in my speech in the relevant parliamentary committee. Because at the same time I said that democracy obviously accepts the different views. And this is not a reading of a unique reality, the authority or the uniqueness of which one must be credited. I just talked about the objective reality. I didn't say anything else. So it is important that this reality is seen and read throughout it and not just in the pieces that may be relevant to us. I do not know if I should go back to specific issues. Public work - I have to say it again - is not abolished. It won't be abolished. The public works are suspended, Mr. Giannakopoulos, simply so that the Greek state can be organized. At the moment we are talking, despite the fact that the new Criminal Code provides for a very large proportion of penalties with substantial fulfilment of social work, no results are produced today and we are well aware of that. They will be produced after two years possibly. So it has not been suspended on substance. What's up today? The Greek state is trying to organise both the public works and the auditing mechanisms, since we know that so far there have been phenomena which, to a large extent, have caused a great deal of doubt and question as to whether the penalty for social work is being fulfilled. I say this again in the most emphatic way: we are not abolishing public service work. On the contrary, we believe that it is a sentence, which gives the real possibility to a very large number of our fellow citizens - who, for any reason, can be condemned - to fulfil their sentence in this way and not cause any problem in their reintegration into the Greek society. Regarding the Road Traffic Code, this is not the Criminal Code. In other words, we need to make a little distinction. The Road Traffic Code still exists. It did not stop there, and it did not really stop laying down the conditions and rules of road traffic. Of course, there have been some provisions there, and I accept the speeches that have been made earlier that one might have to pay more attention to them. It is about the work of the Legislative Committee, which you have all expressed, and you have done well because we have held it, and we have used it ourselves, but on the other hand, you have criticised the articles that were amended by the Committee on Legal Affairs. That is ultimately the contradiction, Mr Loverdos, to tell you what the reality is. The real contradiction is this, and there we all have to show the necessary responsibility, if we really want no such issues. Incorporating in 2017/541 the European Union's Terrorism Directive into the changes of the Criminal Code. That is where I really wonder about the positions of the representatives of certain parties. I'm excluding the JRC. I have a contrast, but I respect that he has a firm view. But some cannot raise themselves as a defender of a European idea and a European reality and the other day say 'why you have incorporated the European directive'. You need to clarify your position. The European directive is clear. And for the criminalisation of the trips involved in terrorism and for which a great deal of criticism has been made, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, do you consider what Mr Kontonis' legislative committee was preparing for? The intention, not the realization of the journey, would be punished. We have all this in writing. So don't come and move our finger and tell us 'why you're doing this, you had to avoid it, you had to do something else'. We must, I repeat, at some point become very serious in a coherent way and in our role towards Greek citizens. There was a specific report, and I would say that the Communist Party on the criminal negotiation has insisted on it. The criminal negotiation shall be voluntary at the request of the accounting officer. It's not mandatory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u164	That doesn't change anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u165	Yeah, but be careful, I want everyone to understand that if anyone doesn't want to enter the criminal negotiation process, he's obviously not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u166	If he's got money, he's gonna get in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u167	What does that mean? Does it mean to privatise justice, as it has been heard or simply means a step taken by most European countries and we know that the result is important also in the process of an alternative way of giving justice, but much more in another direction concerning the decongestion of the volume that falls in the field of courts? These are all issues which one needs to see with due seriousness. I accept that there should be a time of maturity and acceptance of this procedure, and despite the fact that there have been too many proposals to suspend this provision, I personally believe that everyone should be encouraged in order to move forward and to make an alternative procedure within the area of justice. Finally, on the issues that you have raised to me again about torture, and these relate essentially to a European treaty. And here Greece is supposed to be essentially following all the directives given by the Council of Europe and by the Court of Human Rights, so that our legal system is in line with a reality which actually exists, we know, which applies to all European countries. I have listened with interest to Mr Mylonakis' criticism. It mainly concerned the fact that the blasphemy provision was withdrawn. Ladies and gentlemen, my approach was that we had to protect the rights of all people in Greece without exception. We also had to protect the rights of those who, for different reasons, are at some point in the Greek area, which the Greek society must take the necessary steps to accept and, of course, create a framework and protection, but much more encouragement, so that there are no phenomena as we have seen in recent years. Obviously the blasphemy term is not understandable to most colleagues. They're messing with blasphemy by exhume. It's not blasphemy to clear things up. But when there were so many reactions, my view was that this provision should actually be withdrawn. I say this because the main intention of the New Democracy government and the intention of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis is to unite the Greeks. We do not want the division some consciously attempted in a previous period of time. We want the choices of the Greek state to be accepted at least by the vast majority of Greek citizens if not by all Greek citizens. And, of course, when we talk about issues relating to the Ministry of Justice, you realise that this necessity is described to an even greater extent in an even more emphatic manner. One thing is clear: I told you earlier that there were many issues and different points of view on the subject of public silence. It is the Government's intention to modernise the 1996 police provision describing what constitutes a disguise to public silence, describes the hours of public silence and, of course, to protect small and medium-sized businessmen, who feel that by reintroducing this provision, their own business is threatened. It is something I want to make it clear and I want to make it clear to you. Ladies and gentlemen, here we will be, I will keep an eye on all my colleagues. I close with the fundamental and contentious fundamental controversy which exists between us and most of the parties in the Opposition, which concerns the fact that bank managers, the executives of financial institutions should now be indicted and not in a logic of self-government to be led to the judicial authorities. This is a very difficult time for our country, it is a moment when there is a transition. I think everyone recognizes this reality. All rating agencies say that Greece must move in two directions, if it wants to complete this polite practical course that is described in the last few years. One is to move forward with reforms, which are already under way, and the second is to regulate red loans. Haven't you associated with your microprofessional friends? Aren't they transferring their pain and their problem that they have a loan and no one's setting them up at the bank? Shouldn't we see the real need described here? When, in fact, the relevant provision is taken, the four-month period during which the inclination can be carried out is provided, and of course, all those insurance margins, as measures, are actually taken, and with the control of the Financial Stability Fund and the control of the Bank of Greece. At some point, I repeat, you have made an effort, and I would say, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, with a previous law on bankruptcy law, which did not relate to any other case, although we have seen that very few things have been done, in fact nothing has gone wrong. We must understand that, in the face of the responsibility of creating conditions of prosperity to the average Greek citizen - to enable the Greek economy to take the real steps that it deserves especially at this time and to be freed from sufferings of the past - we must all stand in front of the mirror of our personal, individual and collective responsibility. Gentlemen of the Officerate, I realized that most of the new Criminal Code changes you are voting on. I imagine, then, that your opposition simply focuses on some issues that I will ideologically believe just, for the time being, have led you to vote in favour of the new criminal code in that spurious way that you did at the beginning of June. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. Hara Kafantaris, MP SYRIZA B2 West Athens seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad on Monday 18 November and Tuesday 19 November in order to go abroad for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u169	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theory they are attending the meeting, since they participated in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd General High School Aigaleo. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I very much ask the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, to come to Step for 15 minutes and I hope he will not embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u170	Like the new Criminal Code, strictly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u171	You wanted more stricter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u172	Clearly, because these semimeters are only measures of the New Democracy. You know, Mr. Minister is from Carditsa. Isn't that right? In Cardiff, you have a proverb if I'm not mistaken: the fox in the cochineal's sleep cooks. It's yours, Thessaly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u173	Nah, I don't think it's ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u174	You, Minister, have been dreaming of amendments. That's what I'm saying. You have made amendments to how they suit you. Is it possible to bring me to the same article now an amendment to rape for the punishment and infidelity of banks? So, is our logic rushing? What does rape have to do with the poachers and the banks' infidelity? What are you talking about? To force us to vote? We're not going to vote. We in favour of bankers and banks will never vote because they are loan sharks because they have drunk the blood of the Greek people. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Rape along with poachers in an amendment? Why, my Minister? Do three amendments. After all, in the House you have done industry. For the last four months you have been doing an amendment industry. Instead of one in three, do three different things so that we can say that what you do is not part of your wickedness. Because he's one of the wicked ones, he's very wicked, I don't know the mind he thought of it from behind, you're not a lawyer, but the one who thought about it is very mean. So tell him that wicked things in the Greek Solution don't work. Either you do your things or your wicked things to your children here, the MPs who vote anyway constantly yes to whatever you bring them. I would like to make an appeal with all due respect to all the good colleagues. Order, there is the Rules of Parliament, Rule 75. Let's dress a little well in here. I can't say it every time. People come here like they're on the beach. Soon they'll be coming with snails. Is that a picture? We have televisions and people are watching us. This picture does not suit Members, and I am not referring, of course, to the people of New Democracy or to the great, small and medium-sized, I am thinking mainly of the left side, which thinks it is left-wing thinking to be laundry. Left is not whoever is with sandals and laundry. He comes up here with the jacket, the other one comes with a coat like he came from Siberia. Incredible things! Mr President, please convey to the President of this House that there is a Rules of Procedure. Let us at least apply it to him. This is where we bring a Criminal Code for citizens to apply it. But when our argument, which is the Rules of Procedure, is in breach of it, then something is wrong with our own logic. We're going to something very well said by Heraklitos many years ago, my Minister. He said "take care of our laws, as you would guard your walls". Unfortunately, what you brought here does not take care of the laws or the walls of our home. And why am I saying that? Let's go to 74 of the Criminal Code. There's no court deportation. In other words, you deprive a judge of his right to deport someone who considers that he has committed a crime which is a real crime. Why? What is the reason why the judge does not have the right to deport, say that the master will be deported, Ibrahim Hassan Oglou, etc. Because he did this. Tell me, what's the point? It's still the exception of the isobes. Let's go to 52 and 59. You have not restored the deprivation of civil rights. I mean, every villain, every outlaw, every man, every man, I know he'll be able to vote. Nice democracy! You know, because you are a knowledge of ancient Greek democracy, tell your advisors that in antiquity not all those who were evil voted did not vote, not to say that there was filtration - refining the state of Athenian democracy for who they voted. Let's be a little serious. The evil man's vote cannot be equal to yours or mine or anyone else's. The criminal can't be the same as anyone. There are terrible contradictions. The worst of all, what is it? We all say that Greece is at risk from Turkish provocation. We all agree on this, that Erdogan is unravelled. I'm passing through, he's throwing a party in the United States, Trump's been calling him a couple of fifteen times, Mr. Mitsotakis on the shoe, at the White House for five minutes. This means that Turkey is stronger in foreign policy than we are, or at least in its serious foreign policy, claiming. The Greek army has relics. I imagine there are military officers here who are well aware of the matter or of the police. There's a relic. What are you guys doing? Instead of getting out in the Criminal Code for deserters strict sanctions, you say and we are Switzerland, you say Greece is Switzerland. Let me say, of course, that in Switzerland the citizen has a gun in his home, he has a right of possession. He's got it in his house in a closet, normally ready if he needs to use it. In Greece and we do not have weapons and weapons to help the militia and the National Guard to have a ready world at any time and at any time and deserters are not punished. These are incredible things! Where's the press? Where are you going? Preventing army? It's shocking, Minister. Do you understand what you're legislating? Do you understand that? In other words, the deserter, the one who is a sprinkler, will never be punished by the state or state that needs him as an impediment to any of Turkey's challenges. I am referring specifically to Turkey. Let's go to the other thing. Why are you so afraid of the Left? Is that the uterophobia, Minister? I am referring to the whole of New Democracy. You have a fear with the Left. It has become the sacred Buddha, the sacred totem of the Greek Parliament, the Left, whatever the Left, and what the Left says is good. Why? The religious oath, my Minister, where is it? Greece is a Christian country, it is a country of orthodox, and so it will remain unwilling for the Prime Minister and the rest of you to conduct political multiculturalism, you do not want. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Put the oath on. Why didn't you do it? For what? Let's go to blasphemy. Listen, sir, I don't play with words. The anti-racist law, which you voted in here, forbids me - and well it does, to God - to be Islamophobic, to be on the racial traits of some people of colored racists and to be punished automatically. Someone could come and arrest me at that time, and it'll do well. You can't play with religious fanaticism. What about Orthodoxy? Can I curse gods and demons and not be punished? Because in the care of that legislator there is no Christianity, there is Islamophobia. I want you to understand what 'crime' you are now doing against Orthodoxy. Are you a Greek-phobic? You're a racist against the Greeks. Why don't you include this here, too, equal to racism, in the Racism Act. I can curse gods, Jesus, Holy Mary, Christ, and no one bothers me, but if I say anything about Islam, straight chains and cuffs. Why, sir? The Minister's not a lawman. His advisers? Why, gentlemen, are you doing this? Why should the Greeks be a second-class citizen and Orthodoxy fall short of other religions? I don't get it. In my own narrow mind or my perceptiveness, I cannot understand that. it's a lot of coincidences to be simple coincidences. I repeat, there are many coincidences. Maximum stay at twenty-two years. Listen, I'm clear. The man who rapes the six-year-old and five-year-old child must never be seen again, Minister, sunshine. Life, and when we say life, it's life.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u175	Life, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u176	You know what life these are, softly. Twenty-two years, it's not life. And if he's a good kid and he's doing any work there, he's gonna be 15 years old. Who? The one who raped our child. No, or the legislator will impose draconian measures and laws to end from every punk who is raping children or that's not the law. Clear things to be clear about between us. The drug dealers: Hunt there in the bars two - three drugs, two - three grams of fodder, five grams of fodder, etc. Good work on the impressions so the police can show that they did a job and change an agenda. About the drug dealers, Minister, take you to Mykonos in the summer when the dust leaves the air. Why don't you go there? You know, where many ministers go to Mykonos. Wherever you go full, tons, not to mention 'NOCR 1'. What happened? Any witnesses left, boys? Gentlemen of the New Democracy, does any of Marinaki's witnesses live on "NOCR 1"? For everyone has migrated to the Lord. They've disappeared, they've figured out how to beam the witnesses. These are unbelievable things, gentlemen, and even now you are accepting what is happening out loud. Minister, I know you personally. You are one of the serious people in New Democracy by measure and wisely, but you must come here and legislate on auctioning for bankers so that there is auctioning in peace and quiet, and I am honestly worried about it, and I am saying it straight away. Even the owner of the house to protest during the electronic auction will be punished. The one who hurts his house, who confiscated it, and you don't give him the right with the same percentage of 1%, 2%, 3%, 4% and 5% that gets the red loan, the big loan shark, the fund to get it himself. Why are you doing this? You and the other guys did it, you do it, too. So much work, son, to the bankers? I don't get it. Of course, instead of abolishing the electronic auctions that are coming from Genarris and then arguably - you will see, it will be chaos, we will be Spain, the police will enter the houses, it will make people out - we will go into extreme situations. And I'm warning you right now! The same logic - I shall say directly - will have to be arrested by the President of the New Democracy and by all your Presidents - and by PASOK - because you owe millions of euros! And none of you mind! Millions of euros in loans owe the two major parties. All right, there's a big party left. After all, half the people went to SYRIZA. Let's arrest Mr. Mitsotakis! Let's arrest Mrs. Gennamas! Let's arrest all your leaders! Loan, didn't you get? You never paid! Why does it have to save and well to pay only Greeks? Why does it save and well to forbid him to protest, protest in the auction hall and say, "Hey, guys, you get my life!" It is still forbidden - I repeat - and the protest. He'll be arrested on the spot. Is the lawmaker's care to intimidate the man who has been deprived of his right to have a roof? Why believe me, the Greek is not a cop. The Greek has lost his job. The Greeks had two jobs - his wife and him - had an income and suddenly he can't handle it and pay the loan and they'll take his home. The man has already paid a loan. He took 100,000 euros and will pay 150,000-180,000 euros. And he's got 100,000 to pay - I'm telling you the numbers, so you can understand - and take his house while you're forbidden to protest or protest! It's a disgrace! I need - I repeat - a serious policy on social automation. There are difficult times with the red loans and the "HRAKLIS" project, which will collapse in your hands. I'm telling you again. I told you here a month ago. The plan 'HERAKLIS' is a bubble. Zavvus did it. What are you waiting for? Name and thing! I'm kind of charming now. It is a serious man, in any case, but in my village, I am told 'zavos it is him, let go'. I mean, it's just a laughing matter. But the Greek will cry. That's what bothers me. It's good to laugh. I'm telling you, the HERAKLIS project is going to collapse.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u177	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Simopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u179	I won't say about retroactive immunity. Listen, I didn't understand: I'm a big banker. I've devastated the bank, and if in four months, no one's got me, I'm done. Christ and God bless you! This is happening too, son. We're a country of angels! It's all over the place. And bankers in America and Switzerland. But in four months? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u180	That was foreseeable before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u181	I don't care what the previous guys did, sir. I don't care! The bad things former people in Greece have done are scary! Correct them! That's why you got 41%, not to make the same mistakes as others! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] What are you talking about, Minister? I don't even care what the other guys did. Previously, they left history as the liars of the referendum. Do we forget? Let's go to the molotoves. I don't understand, gentlemen of the Left, what molotov means. Molotov is a war material. It's over! It's an instrument that you throw away and kill people. The left-wing gentlemen have easily forgotten MARFIN. They forgot her! You forgot her! It's over! MARFIN doesn't exist for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u182	We've been through this!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u183	I heard you say that, Minister. The repetition, however, is a mother of all learning. They should know because they're not good students. From tomorrow we will all come in here, we will have five molotovs each in his backpack - because the leftists have backpacks - each one will be taken from one and throw it wherever we want! But when we are caught by the police and handed over the molotovs, we are innocent. They're not reasonable. But let me say, Minister, that I do not understand the molotov of what the other one wants and you do not condemn him. It's unbelievable! Unless he's out of gasoline, man and he's carrying two molotovs in his hand, two bottles of gasoline, and he's taking them to his car. That's the excuse! Write it in the law, at least so that it can be seriously justified, because it is not justified when it delivers it not to be a crime, but when it is a crime or when it makes it a crime. What law is that? Honestly, these are amazing things! And I tell the Members of the New Democracy. And I don't really understand, Minister, because they're still insisting on voting on a law written on the leg. Let's go to the asylum. Listen, for me the only solution with asylum, Minister, is his complete abolition and transfer of universities outside Athens. I have said since 2005, in 2007, in 2008, in 2009 here that universities must leave the centre, be transferred to the regions, as they are in Germany. Those who already know from Germany know that most universities are out of town, that they're away from centre. In Greece we made this mistake, we put the universities in the center. Listen: if the political system were serious, and if the so-called left-wings were not in a moral car, they would say 'ten days closed by the universities, will the universities be closed'. Ten days! And on December 6th, he's coming, and now we're closing down the universities. We'd put on padlocks and say "help, order and security, law and order." That would at least say that there is a political will not to be moral perpetrators of the incident. And I'm ashamed to see congressmen while they're outlawing a hundred laundry, a hundred anarchists, a hundred bullies in the university, going...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u184	Don't talk like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u185	It's my view!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u186	Please, be quiet! Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u187	Don't talk like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u188	It's my view. Keep her for you! It's for us! The one with molotovs and war material...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u189	Don't talk like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u190	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, please, my colleague. You'll talk about it when you get the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u191	...within the Greek university, he's anarcholite, he's a trumpet, he's dangerous! It's over and over! That's as far as immunity! I cannot understand how a Member is going to the door and defending the illegal from within, Minister. I don't get it. Did you see her, Madame? They live and are fed by the vote on these bullies. They have confused democracy with freedom. They've confused democracy with molotov. The law is to be applied vertically and to the molotov, which throws away the molotov, which burns public building, burns private property, the property is to be found, pays for the damage from his pocket, so that we don't have the ladies and gentlemen from here to make them sick. Because when you don't have - I repeat - the responsibility of your actions, you act inconsistently. So, confiscation of property, to see who's going to fly again molotov, or repetition of incidents, Minister! That means "I put the knife on the watermelon" or "I put the knife on the bone". Otherwise, just legislate to legislate and give the pretext to the left that you are afraid. I say it with a lot of love. Of course, now after we went there, I will say: Yesterday I heard the committee yelling at a Member - I don't know his name - who, if I'm not mistaken - is still in the Ministry of Health, in the CSY - what's it called? - "Well, they did!" - Congressman of the Greek Parliament! - for the iron-saw that broke the door. He said the Member was "good!" Christ and God bless you! I mean, if I say "were they good and killed somebody," would you tell me I was fine? What are these things, guys? In order to pick up buffaloes, because we're ideologically somewhere there, do we have to fondle self-sufficient outlaws and trumpets? Oh, no! Either left-wing or right-wing, or centre-right, the trumpets are trumpets! Let some people understand it! Clear things! And by closing up - not to eat your time - because enough fairy tale SYRIZA fed us hay, very hay, I got answers from the Ministries. We were told that money for illegal immigrants would be given by the Europeans, Minister. I've got an answer here from the Department of National Defence and I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, it says that 50% of costs for illegal immigrants are incurred by the Ministry of National Defence and by the state budget. The fairy tale, namely, that Ibrahim and Hassan are paid by the European Union, must be stopped. And, Minister, stop saying the same fairy tale! The Greek citizen, the bankrupt citizen, the Greek who has no house, the Greek who seized him into his accounts pays Ibrahim! It's a lie! And listen here now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u192	Please, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u193	I'm closing, Mr. President. And we go to 'NOVARTIS', because I hear a lot about 'NOVARTIS'. But yesterday, Mr Minister, because you are also competent - Mr Paul Sarakis said that many journalists took them from NOVARTIS. Some people smile. We all know! Everyone knows. So why don't you call Sarakis to see who these journalists were taking them and back to "NOVARTIS", along with doctors and others? So why don't you do it? You do, because I've heard the fairy tales enough. The money's gone. You work with Paul, you deal with Mr. Janakopoulos, you deal with Adoi. The money we want! The Greek people's money we want back! When the reporters took it to make backs, was it okay? And I close here, saying this, because we have tomorrow: let's go see the salaries of non-governmental organisations, a post by the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA" and the newspaper "NATIONS". Listen, ladies and gentlemen, the 6,000 euros, which most of you get in here. Remuneration of 10,000 euros a month. Three executives from abroad organised hospitality structures and received EUR 120,000 in analogous to nine months, 96,000 euros for nine months, 80,000 euros for five months. They organized structures in Greece, NGO executives. Let's go below: International organization has offered - listen -140,000 euros to one employee, 130,000 euros to another employee. That, guys, is not charity. That's a business. These people, then, of non-governmental organizations do business. So if you do not close them today, if you do not lock them if you do not finish them - I repeat - the flows will continue. Close the border! Make Evros a wall! From seven to eight points in the Aegean Sea they pass across and come here. Don't take them to local communities. Take them to uninhabited islands. But collect these little kids who say they're doing business. They do business, Minister, when the other EUR 180,000 takes a year to be the manager of an NGO. And the cleaner gets 4,000 euros a month. We're talking about crazy numbers! So, what do they want? There are - I'll tell you - illegal immigrants. Because as long as there are illegal immigrants and refugees - as you say to them - they are paid. So what should the state and the one who wants to legislate do? They must close the NGOs so that they do not have an interest in bringing people here. It's much simpler than you imagine. But the logic of doggie no one mentioned it. Smile, Minister. Your Minister said that on SYRIZA 30 billion euros - listen to the number - they were given for medical treatment in the years 2016-2018. The Minister said so yesterday in an interview. EUR 30 billion was given!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u194	And that's it, Mr. Velopoule.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, this is a very serious point. The New Democracy Minister for the 2016-2019 period said that 30 billion euros were given to them for medical treatment. I have his interview here. I'll give it to you in a few minutes if you want. The Greek people paid 30 billion euros for Ibrahim and Hassan. What Europe? What European solidarity? Can I tell you who they're paying for? The Greek sucklers pay, you tax, you hunt them, you take their homes, because you don't care about George, Nikos, Stavros, but the NGO business - and I refer to this wing more - than the fight against lawlessness. First Greece, first the Greeks and then anyone else. It is the logic of a Greek government. Any other government is looking at everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much. In order to get a class and help the officials of the House, so that we can get the programme out, I will give the floor to Mr Christos Dermetzopoulou from New Democracy. Then will the President of the Change Movement, Mr. Gennimatas, and then Mr. Hetas, who has a loose end. Mr. Dermetzopoulou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the provisions of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure was a consistent and timely demand of the country's legal world. Although the above procedure had been initiated by the previous governmental majority, as in a number of other serious issues, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government did not act on the service of the public interest. On the contrary, he tried to obtain micro-political benefits, resorting to the abundance of extreme political audiences and marginal ideological groups. For us, the policy to strengthen the sense of security of Greek citizens is not just one of our main election promises. It is a basic ideological project of our prolongation. For liberal ideology security is a prerequisite for freedom. The certainty that the life, honor and property of citizens are not at stake, is a necessary starting point for any optimistic thought, a precondition for the release of the creative forces of citizens to achieve personal and ultimately social well-being. The changes in the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which the Ministry of Justice is currently recommending, reflect the above concepts. In the part of the anti-terrorism policy, the proposed amendments aim to prevent radicalisation and counteract violent extremism, which, according to United Nations Security Council resolutions, are the first steps before the individual joins a terrorist organisation. Based on the above logic, in the new Criminal Code, the recruitment of members to a criminal organization is a self-criminal act. Other activities such as the provision of information, the financing of terrorist groups are subject to the same regime, and the threat of terrorist acts is punished for up to five years. It also operates on the conversion of the use of molotov from a felony to a felony. In a country that has grieved dead from the use of molotovs during protests, it is a cause of deep concern that there is no consensus in the political system. It is important for colleagues to know for their own ideological reasons - incomprehensible to me - critically the above amendments to the Criminal Code, that the provisions proposed by the Government are internationally acceptable practices to deal with the phenomenon of terrorism, as well as in a corresponding directive of the European Council and of Parliament. In addition to terrorism, the government places as its main priority the repression of common criminal crime. Interventions to convert the crime of theft and burglary into a felony, when carried out by two or more perpetrators, and to increase the limits for the release of polyisoviers, are important initiatives to strengthen the sense of security for citizens. A key change is also a tightening up of the framework for the punishment of migrants. The whole country and, above all, the outermost regions, are experiencing the pressure of the immigration problem. The recommendation to increase penalties and impose fines per person transferred to the traffickers sends a strong signal of deterrence. The action of slave trade networks, which earn millions of hope from trade at the expense of hundreds of thousands of refugees, must be tackled critically and immediately. This change strengthens our country's legal arsenal, so that the Greek authorities responsible for protecting the borders become more effective in their work. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Finally, the Government recommends major changes to the provisions of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure that are of major importance to society and the functioning of state bodies. More specifically, the reintroduction of the malicious nature of active bribery, as well as the removal from the Minister of Justice of the possibility of suspending persecution for bribery and bribery, harmonizes the Greek provisions with the requirements of the OECD and GRECO, while at the same time marking the government's decision to clash with the corruption phenomena that were for years a brake on the development and progress of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the changes to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure proposed by the Ministry of Justice are not the product of a narrow party process. They offer solutions to structural distortions of our legal system and respond to critical problems of Greek society. So their vote, by a large majority, by this House, will be a sign of political maturity of our political system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, too. Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure are tabled by the Government of New Democracy only four months after their adoption and only two months after their implementation. There was therefore no time to judge in practice the changes made to these amendments. In addition, continuous changes in criminal law make it problematic for the necessary legal certainty, which includes confidence in the stability of the legislative framework, the confidence of judges, of all justice officials and of citizens. Despite the fact that the Penal Codes were not withdrawn from the New Democracy Government, as it had announced in an election, the current points of view but significant changes reflect the difference in the philosophy of the New Democracy Government in relation to that of SYRIZA. This specifically concerns the so-called 'white collar crimes', which are treated by the government loosely and diligently and in criminal collapsing and penalisation, the principle of reintegration into the society of persons who have committed criminal offences, before the criminal collapsing. In paragraph 3 of the amendment tabled today, a subparagraph is added to Article 405(1) of the Criminal Code which provides that if the offence of infidelity is directed against a bank institution - credit or financial institution - prosecution shall be carried out only at an indictment known to be accompanied by a three-month period for its submission. In other words, the injured person, the affected person, the bank is required to lodge press reports against the bank executive. On the contrary, in all other cases, the criminal prosecution is selfish. Thus, a regime of immunity is laid down for bank officials involved in cases of infidelity against banks, since these, when the damage caused to the bank is established, are no longer persecuted on their own initiative, but only after the bank itself has been indicted, even though the relevant cases are linked to the public interest. There is also a question of constitutionality, since, with the different treatment of bank officials in relation to others committing the crime of malicious infidelity, the constitutional principle of equality, equality and equal treatment is violated. In this case, the Greeks and Greeks are equal before the law with the exception of the bank executives. Moreover, the proposed regulation is completely incomprehensible because it is not intended to protect economic freedom, as mentioned in the draft's draft report, since the committing of the offence of infidelity is an abuse of economic freedom. The Government's attempt to support its argument in the distinction between public-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-privileged-private-private-private-private-privileged-private-private-privileged-privileged-private-private-private-privileged banks, claiming that the damage caused by banks has led to repeated recapitalisations, which have led to repeated recapitalisations. In fact, in order that there are no doubts about the objective of the effective introduction of immunity for bank managers, there is a transitional provision that pending criminal proceedings which have been opened, without the submission of an appeal, continue only if the rightholder - in this case the bank - has been indicted within four months of the entry into force of the law, that he wishes to make progress. This means, in practice, introducing immunity for maritime bankers, the well-known loan and unscrupulously, to the media and parties. It should be recalled that the bankruptcy of the country and its monumental policies are due to the famous triangle of interlocutory: banks, media and the old bipartite system of the New Democracy and PASOK, which has broken up public money and then has led to various recapitalisations of the banks to the detriment of Greek taxpayers. Another example of a class-based approach and, as a result, the voluntary treatment of ‘white collar’ crimes is Article 9(2) of the draft law, which provides for the time limiting the commitment measures from the proceeds of the crime to the perpetrator and which are ordered by the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority from Criminal Activities. The commitment may be valid for up to nine months and may be extended for another nine, without even a final decision. It is obvious that the provisions in question deal with the apparel of those accused of laundering black money, even at the expense of the public, and other offences, since the relevant procedures are quite complicated and consequently time-consuming. There is a risk that the commitment measures will cease to be valid and proud before the criminal proceedings are completed and therefore the demand for the stolen return will be cancelled. I will not go into detail on the issue of social work. I will simply say that public work has been a measure that has been in force and is implemented in our country for years and that includes another logic, the logic of penalism not by means of imprisonment, but by means of work, that is, of supply to society as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Papaliou, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u201	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, the fact that the regulation on public works has been suspended indefinitely, I think it is a wrong decision, but it also includes another logic, the logic of repression. And one final comment. The report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament was submitted to Parliament. This simply includes an indication of the articles being amended, without any comment. Is it possible for a bill concerning the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, with a significant number of disputed provisions, even from a constitutional point of view, not to take a position on the Scientific Service of Parliament? That is what I would say is a lack of respect for Parliament, for the Bureau of Parliament and for the committee itself to be self-respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall offive students and students and three educational attendances from the 12th Patras High School (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides]] The President of the Change Movement, Mrs. Gennimata, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is taking place at a juncture of two issues. The first is the issue of universities, and the second is refugee and immigration. In the Movement of Change our position is clear and unequivocal. We want universities openly, free movement of ideas and academic progress, safe for students and for the entire academic community. Yes, of course, we are against the phenomena of violence and lawlessness that are arousing higher education and depriving the new generation of our country and especially of the weakest, access to quality education. Yes, we must not allow war with molotovs, which has in the past cost innocent human lives. And that is something that must finally be accepted by all of us. That is why I insisted so much in the summer to vote for a law together, a law that would effectively protect the university when there are illegal acts, as the police were right to intervene on the arsenal in ASEAN. At the same time, however, it would not allow unjustified violence, such as the one they have shown, unfortunately, then on Monday in ASEAN, which - I would like to stress - we would have avoided in our own provision. The New Democracy and SYRIZA are trying to convince us that we are constantly trapped in a dilemma. We are told that either we will accept lawlessness and admit that we are handing over the universities to blind violence, such as SYRIZA, or we will return to the old right-wing recipes of authoritarianism, which New Democracy as the main pursuit. Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We say clearly 'no' to both of these choices, because both lead to the closure of the universities: one of the conquests of the boulders and the other of the dangerous conflicts without limits within them. And above all, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot divide the new generation of our country, forcing it to choose every time what it considers to be the least evil. And we're all responsible. Especially during this period, in view of the events of the Polytechnic anniversary, it needs responsibility, temper and restraint. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] No-one - I stress - has the right to tarnish students' struggle for democracy and freedom. I come to the refugee - immigration, where the government, unfortunately, insists on the same policies as Mr Tsipras, which have already failed. And lack of plan to manage reality creates emergency conditions. When not only our islands, but the entire Greek society emits SOS, the responsible Minister, even before the European Parliament, raises hands high, professing that the situation is not manageable. We need a radical change of policy on this issue. And, indeed, this must be done immediately. Finally, our country cannot continue to face itself a huge problem which concerns the European Union as a whole, without a review of the Dublin Regulation, without any new relocation programme, without any real protection of our borders, which is Europe's borders, by calling for only micro-credit facilities. We are not going to tackle the problem as long as the keys to its solution remain in the hands of Mr Erdogan, who is constantly blackmailing us. The problems are intensified and the soil is created to cultivate extreme behaviour and strengthen the extreme right. So we're hitting the risk bell again, but we're not just staying on sending emergency messages. We insist on the proposals that we have presented and we expect concrete answers from the Prime Minister himself to the question we have submitted to him a few days ago. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the plan that we are discussing. PASOK was the party that genuinely expressed, and even in the difficult times, in the beginning of the economic and political crisis, the need to modernise and rationalise Greek criminal law. With Minister Charis Kastanides and later Miltiadis Papaioannou served the Ministry of Justice nomadic committees, consisting of leading scientists, who have resulted, among other things, in the abolition of the class measure of the conversion of the sentence, the declassification of anachronistic or impracticable offences, the rationalisation of sentences, the incorporation of socially beneficial labour and other alternative penalties, the establishment of the institution of the criminal negotiation. Sadly, he took a serious delay. New Democracy and SYRIZA are responsible for oligopoly and atmospheric pollution in the promotion of this necessary reform. What was the result? The previous government has brought these two top codes to the last, literally, meeting of the previous parliament, without allowing substantial political dialogue, the opposite, the democratic composition of views. He framed the reform of criminal law in the election high and condemned these important legislation in a series of errors and failures, other random and other very well studied. First of all, since the start of this House's work, we have agreed with the need for an immediate and effective correction of all the problematic provisions of the two codes, which are from dysfunctional to dangerous, and we have asked you to bring the relevant provisions, including those concerning the acts of terrorism, the molotov bombs, the condition of dismissal of multi-subsidy prisoners, for the reintroduction of the single-subscribing felony. It is therefore essential that these corrective measures be taken by the same committee of inquiry. And that's what matters. But at the time you make these necessary adjustments, you are unfortunately also leaving your own authentic conservative print on criminal law. From the absolute ideal slackness of SYRIZA, we go to the other end with the New Democracy. The middle road seems to be utopia for you. I am going to speed up just a few points: first and foremost, you are systematically seductively and thoroughly seductively seductively about the institution of socially beneficial work. Already since August, you have decided to suspend an institution of great social importance and burden. Why are you doing this? Mostly you have to tell us until when this is going to happen. You must say, ladies and gentlemen, in the House, in detail and document, what action you intend to take to activate the alternative penalties. You must say how and when you will take care that the foundation of socially beneficial work is not used. With the option of inaction you will lead not only to overloading the penitentiary system, but also to unreasonable and unreasonable situations of incarceration of detainees for disproportionate acts and especially the weakest citizens, that is, those who do not have the financial opportunity to buy the sentence. Your real face also appeared with the attempt to resurrect the blasphemy offence, against international data and the teachings of modern criminal law. No, nothing more, but you're also passing for liberals. Welcome back, you badly thought about it in the first place. I will not, ladies and gentlemen, remain in other individual provisions which have serious vagueness and which may give rise to legal uncertainty. Our special rapporteur and our fellow Members have been mentioned in detail. I would, however, like to focus on the issue of bank officials' infidelity and to speak clearly, without humiliation and hypocrisy. We fully understand the need to safeguard the smooth operation of the banking market. We also consider it necessary to safeguard the bank executives from the phenomenon of prosecutorial inflation which also reaches the limits of activism, to protect themselves from conflicts of interest, from political purposes and from the yellow press. Otherwise, how will credit institutions be able to function safely and effectively? How will a executive be able to sign a restructuring or loan with the hefty break of infidelity constantly over his head? But there's always a distance between the edges. The provision proposed by the government involves serious legal issues, perhaps even constitutional, as it introduces specific exemptions without sufficient justification. The Change Movement has tabled a concrete proposal and an amendment to this crucial issue. This is a proposal that manages to reconcile both the legal need for regulation and legal certainty. On the basis of the supervisory role of the Bank of Greece, we propose that it confirm that damage has been caused to the bank's assets in violation of the duty of custody. We urge you, gentlemen of the government, to take careful note of our proposal and adopt it. It is a proposal that can be broadly accepted and does not allow for a further dance of populism and suspicion on the body of the Criminal Code. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing the 'NOVARTIS' case. In the ‘NOVARTIS’ case, day after day the multi-accussional circuit is revealed. The methods, tools and targets are on the surface. His persuasive bodies remain faithful to the plan until this time and try, even at the very last moment, to legitimise unfounded and guided actions. The criminal prosecution against Andreas Loverde is the last sample of writing a system that is degraded. There is no Greek, ladies and gentlemen, who are not concerned about how only one day after the request of the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena to remove the file from the Prosecutor of Corruption, the latter has rushed to order the prosecution. It is now obvious that he added cynically and uncovered another piece in the Jigsaw Jigsaw Jigsaw Jigsaw. Besides, despite the obstacles and stumbling blocks that SYRIZA tried to start and its turn now by a hundred and eighty degrees, the pre-review committee started its essential function yesterday. We're still at the beginning of the investigation and just now we've caught the end of the thread. But we're sure the truth will shine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the Saraval Achaea High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It is also known in this House that the Committee on the Reporting and the General Balance sheet of the State and Control of the State Budget submits its report to the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance: (a) ‘Following the State's Financial Year 2017 Report’ (b) ‘Resolution of the Balance Sheet of the State of the financial year 2017’. Mr Dimitris Kouvelas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, American President Ronald Reagan once said that a government's primary task is to protect citizens and not to direct their lives. This has proved to be what you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA have been trying to do for four and a half years. In other words, you tried to direct the lives of Greek citizens with your practices and not protect them as you had to. Finally, you succeeded one day before the election was announced, before the House closed down, with ideological criteria to impose loose criminal rules on a society that has more than ever a need for protection and security. I have listened very carefully to the committee to the Members' positions on opposition, and the last thing I expected us to do is a political controversy on the question of amending the new codes which, as a mission, should have two things. The first is the prevention and repression of crime, while at the same time the administration of justice. For crime, and by extension for the risk of insulting public goods as we know - there is no need for theoretical and philosophical development - these do not separate social classes, political and religious beliefs, but afflict all those who become their objectives. A few days before the elections you are introducing criminal codes with ideologies and instruments in order to satisfy a small - fortunately - part of your party audience and not send messages from a favoured and secure country to all citizens. But ideological and ideological criteria do not fit in preventing crime. Preventively it must be these criteria, because prevention, as we know, is the first thing that is being taught even the first-year student in law. The basic objective must therefore be double. On the one hand, the offence must also be clearly defined, on the other hand, the criminal penalty that is also threatened is defined, but also so strict that someone who dares to commit or thinks of committing a crime to know what penalties are laid down and what is awaiting it. You insisted on bringing the new codes shortly before we went to the pre-election period and the great political change that occurred, thus causing huge discussions and controversies in the legal world, in the judiciary, in Greek society after all. What should anyone want first? The decriminalisation of molotov? He asked the SYRIZA's rapporteur on the 'But well, if anyone has a molotov in his backpack, where is the offence? We're gonna punish...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u206	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u207	That's exactly what he said, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u208	He didn't say that. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u209	And he went on to say: "Would we punish the thought that he might be doing?" Is that what you would say to the three families of the wrongful young people of MARFIN and the unborn child in May 2010?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u210	He didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u211	He said so, Mr. SYRIZA's colleague. Don't complain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u212	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u213	But it's just his words. And indeed, Mr. Lappas repeated it more than once. Here it is. Is that what you would tell the dozens of cops who, after the incidents in the center of Athens, are many of them burners?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u214	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u215	Is that what you would tell the regular students who happened to be around the university at episode times and were injured by the use of molotovs of some necrops? The colossal argument by the same colleague, by you, Mr SYRIZA's rapporteur, cannot be persecuted for a felony, who goes to a gathering with a molotov in his backpack, while the one who goes to the same gathering with a mydrali - you said features - a machine gun in his backpack, is simply persecuted for a defect. You said that. Didn't you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u216	That's it, isn't it? That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u217	So we agree, Mr President. And the one who has a machine gun for a felony must be persecuted. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u218	That's different.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u219	We agree. Here it is. But we're not going back. We'll go forward. Remember, then, the conversion into a flood for the bribery of public officials who exposes us internationally or the Law of Friday with the dozens of releases of the most dangerous criminals, barbers, who, after their release, continued their criminal activity undisturbed? Remember the frequent licenses from prison of unrepentant terrorists who had sown death and pain for decades? Is that the liberal spirit of the theorists of the Criminal Law you constantly invoke, colleagues of the SYRIZA? But I keep you being with liberalism after all. But you expressed exactly what was missed by the great professor of Criminal Law, Ioannis Manolidakis, who I think most of us had him a teacher at the Aristotle University in Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u220	It's his code.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u221	The whole code is his.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u222	Yes, I agree. One more reason to read more carefully the thought and philosophy of Professor Manolidakis. So, by teaching us criminal law that we must act in a criminal environment where the state does not prepare crime and the criminal does not do so. Minister, with today's legislation, we are returning to the much-conscious regularity and contributing to the insertion of the sense of security that the citizens need so much. I will pass on to important changes, however, which come about the real increase in the creation of penalties to twenty-two years from the seventeen years, the malicious persecution and the nature of the use of explosives in a pooled crowd, the crimes against life by organised terrorism where our national law is in line with the European directive. Who told you that we are tightening up the framework against international practice, colleagues of SYRIZA? On the contrary, we are in coordination with international practice. Also, the funding of terrorists and the provision of information on the organization and execution of terrorist acts are important regulations in the Criminal Code, because we must not forget that we must return to Greece the rules and safe citizens and not remain in Greece for fear of the 'Ruviks' and the bahalakis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will only conclude by saying that the judges, lawyers, citizens in the end with the recent arrangements that you have brought, are feeling their lives difficult, why did you say this too: 'We have seen the new codes in their application? It's only been a few months. These must grow in practice to see them.’ But the New Democracy expressed its opposition to the changes already in the days that were being discussed and we are doing nothing but legislate today, with this draft law which is being introduced, restoring the arrangements that we have declared the need for criminal justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Couvela, you've gone far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u224	The codes are not a platform of ideological obsessions or a tool of short-term service, on the contrary are the public interest and, above all, the security of citizens. In this effort we want allies and colleagues in the Greek Parliament, but also all citizens. I invite you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I would like the floor to restore my personal honour and credibility, which are distorted by what is being said about my face.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u226	Here, Mr. Lappa, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u227	I'm gonna need a second, Mr. President. Mr President, the issue that has dominated the committees - and it was a matter of dialogue - is not whether it is a crime to hold a molotov or a weapon. The question was whether it was a crime with an estimated sentence of three to five years, as the code has already said, or a felony only, which is disconnected from its use. What do colleagues, who are legal, do not understand and tell me what the spirit of Manolidakis is? Here is the spirit of reasoning. Don't tangle the theory of Manolidakis and the theory of reason. The theory is this: Do you want the simple occupation to be for all explosives, weapons at a demolition level, but valued, or a felony disconnected from the act? This is the great theoretical, political and legal question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u228	I will not explain any further, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u229	Explain what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u230	It's all recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u231	It is a good thing that we are not talking about the other person personally, because that is the definition of staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u232	I have referred to Mr Lappa as the rapporteur for SYRIZA and not personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u233	The worst form of lies is distortion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u234	Let's not go on with this. I think, Mr. Lappa, you have given the explanations. You said what you said, there's no need to go on now. Let us move on with Mr Villidos, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for nine minutes, along with your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President. The bill we're discussing is described as criminal. However, despite the many reactions to the provisions of the Law of Paraguaypoulou, it does not seem to be aimed at greater rigour. On the contrary, as shown by the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, it promotes the acquisition of penalties. So, again, increased liberties, although with some extra economic benefit. This seems to be the concern of the country's monitors, the economic, financial benefit from the fines, which is a covered tax, such as the increase in PPC's tariffs, without being understood as such by the citizens. We do not know, of course, whether this economic benefit will compensate for the potential increase in crime or the moral risk of imitators being found, so it will cost additional costs for policing and restoring faults. As far as the first part of it is concerned, I should like to say the following. We feel that it focuses on other issues and has motives other than the provisions of the Law of Paraguaypoulou. It lays down, for example, penalties for torture in Article 2, training in weapons for terrorist acts in 3.12 and terrorist action abroad in 3.10. Really, why is this code preparing us? Is it to increase terrorism on account of the arrival of jihadists or for cases of domestic participation in warfare abroad, as has been done with second generation European immigrants? The draft law also includes various provisions with stricter penalties, covering the disruption of public silence, in Article 10, until the driving under the influence of substances, in Article 4.3, which are of course positive. As far as the provisions on incidents and terrorist activities are concerned, we wonder why a new law was now needed after so many years of incident. As it seems to be a good idea, but the key is in the implementation, I would like to note that, despite the laws we have passed on to asylum, the actions of the known - unknown persons through interventions at various offices and attacks on police officers with a relatively predictable "geographical" that is no longer touching even television workshops. Does the government think it was the laws that prevented the police from conceiving the known - strangers to this day? Or is it expecting a new wave of wrath due to the planned failure of its policy, i.e. the continuation of the memorials, and wants to intimidate citizens with the bill? However, it wonders how the governments of recent years perceive activism and terrorism, fascism and democracy. What can anyone really say when some consider hundreds of thousands of people of the syllables for Macedonia to be extremist, but activists of the occupations? Article 3.5 now introduces the responsibility of business directors or public bodies for negligence in cases of the infidelity of existing people. We regret here the directors who will neglect instructions from their political leaders covered by the Council Responsibility Act. On the other hand, how can any managers and subordinates agreement be dealt with to cover negligence? Obviously he can't. There are still some provisions in the economic bill that we will concentrate on. We are referring in particular to the question of the persecution of credit institutions, which we consider to be related to the regulation of red loans and the protection of auctions. These issues are so important and with so many side effects that they would require a separate debate only on them. In this case, there were also some strange facts as to how they were included in the bill. In particular, these provisions were added after consultation or were not initially included. More specifically, the bill was posted for consultation on October 14th at 10:00 and remained until October 18th also until October 10: 00' at night. That is, it lasted four days and was then filed in the parliament on October 31st. What really happened within these seven working days that included on the 3rd day of October 28? Is there anything to do with the famous 'HRAKLES' project prepared by Mr Zavvos and who knows who else, without involving European institutions such as the European Central Bank and which was approved by the media? How can it not be approved, since it is a very efficient investment in capital funds? However, judging by the papers this week before 28 October on problems, in particular, that the European Union is asking for a cash collateral, that is to say, EUR 9 billion of the Greek State's guarantee, we wonder if it is stuck somewhere. I submit to the Minutes two of these publications. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The risk that is being attempted here is that, given the precarious economic situation of our country - yesterday, UBS gave us a deadline by 2021, informing us of the risks in our bonds after 2021 - the guarantor, the state, before the loans, will probably be the duration of the bonds. No wonder, if you think that the high-priced Greek state, which guarantees, is assessed with a non-investment grade. In these circumstances, then, the sustainability of debt depends on the future facilities of creditors, none of us, which causes uncertainty to investors, who are, moreover, not so optimistic about the future growth promised by the government. In this context, the solution they propose is the freezing of funds in cash, in order to ensure 100% of the repayment of the bond buyers of the securitised loans. Perhaps, therefore, the additions to the draft law on infidelity were included in order to prevent a "shipwreck" of the "HRAKLIS" project, providing the banks with additional freedoms to clear their portfolios on their own, without selling them to speculative capital. In this case, by adding Article 52 to Article 390(1)C of the Criminal Code in cases of infidelity to the banks, whether as a crime or as a felony, the self-prosecuting is abolished and now only persecuted. This provision is deemed to be intended to protect bank managers from categories of restructuring of loans. In particular, it will not be possible for the prosecutor to sue them, but the bank itself, if it is damaged by regulations which are decided, but which is oxime, since the bank itself will give them the orders. It is said that, in order for the regulation to be constitutional, it should be extended to the whole private economy. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, as if not all of this were enough, Article 6(2) included previous cases with an own-initiative prosecution, which will now be possible only to continue with the submission of an appeal within four months. Why is retrospective power really true? What cases do they cover? If the problem was to solve the bankers' hands with regard to red loan arrangements, why is it not simply that the cover by self-determination is not just made in housing cases? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. The next sixteenth is all from New Democracy: Mr.Maravegias, Mr. Yoyakas, Mr. Ioannis Economou, Mr. Bogdanos, Mrs. Papakostas and Mr. Hadjivassiliou. I would ask you to keep the time, because we have sixty other speakers. Mr. Maraveyas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in discussing a piece of legislation such as the Criminal Code, someone would say that it would be easy to find a common place from all parties. For example, there should be no difference of understanding between New Democracy and SYRIZA about what acts are criminal offences under ordinary criminal law. I am not, unfortunately, talking about crimes of terrorism, because that is where SYRIZA has taken its place for years, calling rocket attacks not as terrorist, but as political actions. In other words, it does not tell us exactly that they are not criminals, but it also gives them a higher ideological incentive. Indeed, according to the former Vice-President of Parliament, these are acts that were even intended to be in a better world. So can criminal activities for SYRIZA, such as information provision, funding, recruitment of members to a terrorist organisation, not be regarded as self-criminal acts? I no longer know what to say and I cannot imagine that, ladies and gentlemen, how you can justify it. But leaving aside SYRIZA "humanistic ideals" - within introductorys - terrorism, one would believe that actions such as possession or transfer of molotovs to public meetings would be even politically condemned by the Civic Opposition or at least that SYRIZA would be in agreement with their criminal assessment as preparatory acts for the evacuation of public order. So, as the Minister for Justice, Mr. Ciaras, has wondered, what would anyone want to do by bringing a molotov to a gathering? Apparently, not take her for a walk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u238	Let him eat ten years in jail.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that such a difference of understanding about the obvious is not due to SYRIZA's ignorance of reality. Because the SYRIZA government has known for four years that there had been a hamburger equipment laboratory in ASEAN. He knew it, but he didn't do anything. So a responsible government, the one of the New Democracy, went in the OSCE the day before yesterday and dissolved the laboratory that everyone knew existed. That is why last July the Greek people voted for Kyriakos Mitsotakis as Prime Minister and sent SYRIZA to the opposition, so that we could do within four months what you did not want to do for four years. Mr President, Minister, this bill, fortunately, goes a little further than that. It is an act of the New Democracy's commitment to the enforcement of equality, with the abolition of discrimination in favour of political persons. Thus, in Articles 159 and 159a, in the wording proposed, the provisions on the bribery and bribery of political persons will apply in a similar way to Members in all their duties and not only to the extent that they relate to the participation in a election or voting process. The legal vacuum in respect of the State Secretarys and their actions is also covered in the same way. As far as civil servants are concerned, Article 236 increases the anticipated penalty for active bribery, which is converted into a felony with a threat of imprisonment of up to eight years. We can therefore see that the Government of New Democracy restored the previous regulations on serious offences, which SYRIZA had reduced to such a degree, which actually reached their disappearance for many such cases. I would even remind you of the Law of Paradopoulou, which was passed on to SYRIZA in the summer of 2016, and the airless releases that followed. I would also remind the committee what Mr Panagopoulos, a representative of the Association of Prosecutors of Greece, said about the previous Criminal Code, the one you voted on, gentlemen, which was so urgent that Mr Tsipras was to be implemented before the July elections. These are provisions providing for crimes involving distinguished thefts, distinguished frauds, etc., with prisoners who have even been released in cases of criminal organisations. They were, as the D.A. made clear, too many prisoners. Approximately three hundred release cases took place in a "fly-out" process. At the same time, it reveals that the aim of the legislation, as in the case of the Law of Friday, was to make these releases just as quickly. Any other comment is superfluous. I would simply expect to hear a reasonable explanation from SYRIZA why it did not put the Penal Code into force in September, as the Association of Prosecutors of Greece called for, but was so urgent that the releases began in July. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end with another phenomenon faced by the new Criminal Code and it is no more than the action of organisations such as the 'Rubicon'. These are SYRIZA child activisms. These actions are accompanied by corresponding postages on social media, which constitute, not just a propaganda of the positions of the “Rubic”, but contain open threats to specific persons and urges to take new actions by third parties, new proselytes, according to the model of decentralised Islamic organisations. The threat of terrorist acts or of stirring them up will now be punished by imprisonment for up to five years. As the government's last success, with the dismantling of "Revolutionary Self-Defense", our policies will not remain a letter of content. There are no simple words left in the legislature's paper. The provisions of the new Criminal Code are passed by the House to apply wherever needed. The time of impunity has passed and this will soon become clear in every direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr Yoyakas has the floor, and then Mr. Ioannis Economou immediately. Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u241	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we agree that such an important reform, such as the change in the two codes, must not be linked to political purposes or ideological affinity, nor can it be influenced by various events of the context. We, with the proposed changes, seek to address weaknesses, failures and contradictions of the basic review adopted by the previous House, and in only five. We have taken into account the concerns expressed by associations, universities and professionals of the legal area, the warnings of mass flagrant offences, such as burglarisations and thefts, the imprisonment of prisoners, the creation of a sense of impunity in the world, the increase in threats to public security, or, even, the tolerance to corruption cases or the action of extreme or terrorist groups. So, while listening to these concerns, we could only amend certain provisions, which are very important to stimulate the sense of security for citizens. Penalties for assaults on notaries and other public servants, such as tax officers, are made more stringent, carrying out their professional and service duties. There are penalties for those who enter and remain illegally in public buildings. The funding of terrorist organisations, the provision of information on terrorist acts and the public threat or incitement to a terrorist act is being punished. Strictly treat the law not only those who use it, but also those who intend to use molotovs and explosives. There's a felony again, bribery and bribery of employees. Polyisovites, such as the members of 17 November, may request release after serving twenty-two and not seventeen years of sentence. It is considered a felony with prison sentence of up to ten years theft by at least two people who had formed a gang, regardless of the value of thefts. Very important is also the provision of heavier penalties, which will reach life, for anyone who leads under the influence of alcohol or drugs and causes death. Likewise, it should be noted - and here it should be noted that the Minister has responded to his proposals by colleagues - that the stricter penalties for rape, which also concerns the rape of minors, are provided for. Fines and penalties for migrant trafficking are being increased and will henceforth be charged for each transported person. Penalties, non-analogue penalties, impunity have no place in criminal or anti-social behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen, enough has been said at committee meetings to prosecute bank officials for infidelity after lawsuit and not automatically, as is provided for state officials. The logic behind this difference is specific and I repeat it for the citizens who see us or read us. We want bankers to be able to negotiate and sign more flexible red loans arrangements in order to give homes a breath so that they can stay in business and save jobs that are at risk, so that the banks can stand by an hour ahead of the needs of the economy. A comment, ladies and gentlemen, on the use of socially beneficial work as a basic and alternative penalty. It is right that the Minister takes note of the fact that at present there is neither a mechanism to monitor the supply of socially beneficial labour nor a hosting structure to municipalities and other bodies. That is what the judges are aware of, who, even though they are today, rarely impose a socially beneficial job. We therefore keep our Minister's commitment that he will soon present a specific programme and a nominal record of the structures where the penalty for public work can be applied. It is a positive prediction, which is a pity to remain a blank letter. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the changes that have been legislated after ten years of work and cooperation of top experts will be judged in practice. We are aware that a law alone is not enough, that we need more and better infrastructure, more people and even more technology. That is why we continue, with the head of a low and work-saving, to take a step forward in our security policy plan focusing on the citizen, to act as a basic condition of the New Democracy truth agreement with society, to guarantee more security for every citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u242	Thank you for keeping time too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked by Mrs Ahtsioglou to take the floor immediately after Mr Hatzidakis, namely after speaking three or four Members of the New Democracy, because she has a political obligation outside Athens and has to go. I hope we don't disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u243	No objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, put in a row so that Members will also know what order they will be speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u245	We're set up. I've already announced the six next ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u246	It's not just the six. Here's forty-six, sixty-six. MPs cannot be the music carpet between officials. They need to know what time they're going to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u247	Mr. Vlao, you know this isn't about officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u248	It is an official who asks for the floor from his institutional role and speaks. Let the MPs know too. It's been five hours and nine MPs have spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u249	The President of the Greek Solution also spoke, and the President of the Change Movement spoke. The order also applies to those involved are, as I understand it, the Parliamentary Representatives, Mr Buga, Mr Janakopoulos, Mr Loverdos, Mr Pafilis and Mrs Bakadima. No one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u250	Mr President, I know that. What I am saying is that six, ten Members, a parliamentary representative, should speak. Not everyone can talk together and the MPs can wait. That's what I'm saying. Otherwise it makes no sense to write speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u251	I agree with you, but that is the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u252	All right, it is the Rules of Procedure, but also the Bureau should interpret the Rules of Procedure as I propose.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u253	As a general principle we cannot accept that. The Rules of Procedure cannot be interpreted as a Member says. Mr. Economou has the floor, and then Mr. Bogdanos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today is another proof that the government is fully in line with the commitments it has made to the citizens before the elections and in whose name it has gained confidence. With the draft law on the Criminal Code we are tightening up the fight against terrorism, making the release of polyisoviers more difficult, we are dealing with the construction and use of explosives, reconverting to a felony of public officials, taking care and measures for the attacks on taxpayers. For example, it increases from seventeen to twenty years, what one needs to carry out in a polyisovit prison in order to make conditional use of the request for dismissal, the incitement to conduct terrorist acts in any way or to advertise them, even on the Internet, is imposed three years in prison for those holding and using explosives and reconverting this to a felony, as well as to a felony, and the bribery of civil servants for acts or omissions of them. Also very important are what defines an environment in which bank employees are called upon to operate in terms of loan arrangements, red borrowing obligations. And I say this because we are all aware of paradoxical cases that lead to a situation of endless threats for those who want to operate on the basis of rules in a way which is positive for both the economy and the banks and for entrepreneurship. The claims that a general immunity and conspiracy theories behind it are, I think, completely unfounded, not only because justice always retains the advantage and the right to intervene and control, but mainly because the red loan arrangements will be made in accordance with the rules of the banking authorities, on the basis of the supervision of the Bank of Greece and those provided for by these competent authorities. On the other hand, an institutional framework is finally being formed, which will enable us to deal with a situation whose importance, I think, is not questioned by anyone. How important, in other words, it will be for banks and for the economy and businesses - where regulations can be made - of red loans, especially when we have created a vicious circle, which has left banks locked up with 80 billion red loans, employees not signing anything, under the threat of prosecution, and citizens being faced with extreme and unpleasant choices, such as auctions. I would like to point out, Mr President, in my speech and something else, which I also consider to be important. When we discuss a draft law which includes rules that are intended to protect, strengthen security, and citizens' freedom, it comes to the surface and an issue that is more general and I think it is important. I am referring to the perception that exists over time, which insists on defending hostilely the enforcement of the legislation and refusing its implementation. It is a concept which shows tolerance to violence, a concept which insists that the majority should not be granted the right to enjoy what the Constitution stipulates and instead that it should recognise or stand positively against the imposition of a minority vote against the majority. It is no secret that for many people who hold a public speech and a public initiative legality is not self-evident. It is self-evident, however, that resistance to the law is self-evident. And many times this concept of seducing wider audiences or to get party benefits, politically, are attempting a number of dangerous nettings, others less or more serious. That is to say, the press's vote: 'Why should this group be punished, since the other one has not been punished in the past?' The formula's netting: "Why should the law be applied to the one carrying and using a molotov when, say, the law was not applied to someone who was abused public money?" These setbacks are too dangerous for a rule of law. These are settlings which - let me say - are disastrous for democracy. And they are netting, which in my view do not favour anyone. For example, there is no favour of the periphery approach, the demigrant, ironic reference to the "law and order" in any attempt by the organised state to deal with unequivocal violations, such as, for example, the manufacture of explosives in universities or the invasion or possession of buildings belonging to the public or private sector. He doesn't favor anyone. No one wins that. On the contrary, we're all losing. And you know why we're losing? We're all losing, because that's how we go up, we're equating gang laws with the laws of democracy. We're all losing, because we're getting out of the center of attention and the expectation of society the orderly state and leaving room for vendetta between gangs or, at the other end, juvenile zealots on the other side. These, then, are things, are perceptions that the truth is that they are moving from time to time. Unfortunately, they are stereotypes and perceptions and delusional ones who have endured, survived the crisis too. And I think we all ought, as a political system, to assume our responsibilities, especially those of us who are bound by an oath or by our honour for respecting the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, too. Mr Bogdanos has the floor and Mrs Papakosta follows. Here, Mr Bogdano, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the infamous national-socialist philosopher of the law Carl Schmidt had said that he who has power also decides on exceptions. This is exactly the logic behind the previous government, always defining exceptions to the law, distinguishing between good and bad violence, tolerated trabbing, and closing the eye in the nuclei of lawlessness and raids in the center of Athens and in schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u257	Golden Dawn, you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u258	Mr Colleague, I am talking about a similar attitude of the ends. I am talking about a national socialist philosopher whose principles have unfortunately been applied by the previous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u259	Yeah, but don't have a conversation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u260	Thank you for the brief dialogue. No vacation from now on, please. You do not, then, have to forget the unfortunate humor of the former Prime Minister in this Chamber, to wonder what the molotovs do wrong and even to go on saying that it depends - ha, ha! - Which side are you when they fall, where they drop them or where they fall. No one should forget, Minister, Mr Kyritsis, who said that no one remembers being killed by molotov. And no one should forget that Mr. Friend reminded him of Marfin's dead. So the molotovs are a murder weapon. Some see their possession and use as a democratic conquest. They remind the phrase from George Orwell's animal farm, which says all animals are equal, but one is equal to the other. We therefore reject the deeply and dangerously dominated logic of the exceptions, of the immunity of lawlessness and of the revolutionary feuds. And with this bill we are taking another important step towards democracy, namely the treaty governed by the law with general, universal and fair rules. It is precisely in general rules that it reveals the nakedness of some alleged arguments. Mrs. Canelle told us that Mr. Lappas was not committing a crime by someone who just carries molotov bombs in the backpack before using them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u261	Let's go again. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u262	And I wonder, would you say the same - one question I ask - for someone who carries a gun?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u263	Yes, but a moment ago we had a personal conversation about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u264	Here's the argument. Would you say the same thing about someone carrying a gun? Are you ready to extend this argument to support the free hand of all citizens? If we go to rehab, that's what we need to think. There are no weapons of ideological immunity. Ladies and gentlemen, it is understandable that the Minister's initiative to withdraw the provision concerning malicious blasphemy after a recital distorting its real purpose over the last few days. But look at what's going on and I'm asking you to pay attention to it. The other day, some vandalised the Holy Bank of the Holy Church of Agios Charalambos in the village of Halkios in our censorship Chios. Some rather young ladies, members of the "Pyrena of Anarchist Magics", vandalised Saint Meletios in the center of Athens. I told them, Some people took it to the fun. It's not funny. At the same time, others - who probably consider themselves at the other end than the above, but who actually beats them exactly foolishness - vandalize every such Jewish cemeteries and Islamic monuments in our country and even vindicate places of other religions. Again, then, the crucial question of a rule and exception: Does the Orthodox temple vandalism have to be treated differently from the vandalism of other religions' spaces? Obviously not, neither stricter nor of course lighter. But it is not possible that trabucisms against non-Christians are treated with a special sensitivity and the majority are not protected precisely because they are a majority! That logic is insane. And as to the right of religious freedom, then, there are no more equals than others. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made an undertaking in the run-up to the election to restore legitimacy and regularity in the country. Every day that passes there are very important steps in this direction. Terrorist organisations are being dismantled, trafficker networks are being dismantled, but also drugs and smuggled products. Buildings are being evacuated from occupations, which are sometimes - as evidenced by developments in recent days, justifying some of us - are also linked to new terrorism. The role of universities as centres of knowledge and freedom is restored. For all this, there are beneficial, very useful regulations in the draft law. And we'll get to the point where the police can finally do her job and the Greek justice of hers. Of course - and I'm closing up with it - some people react. They want to keep what? Their exceptions in Exarchia, universities, underground molotov laboratories of the Polytechnic, to the occupations. They want to be able, unpunished, to welcome and instigate murderous or terrorist ideas and actions. And, of course, they find known, always willing, ideological supporters and escorts. He won't get through them. The vast majority of Greeks reject them. Twenty years ago, we were giving DPRK, Panteion University, struggles to open the conquests to small minorities who thought the university was their dick and that they have the right to trample our own right to education. I conclude by saying that today from the Step of the House I am proud to see the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis ending with these absurds of progressively masked totalitarianism, which has poisoned every aspect of the country's public life for decades. In our book, ladies and gentlemen, everyone is equal, without an asterisk! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Lappa, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the worst form of lies is the distortion of what another says, even if it is your political opponent. For a millennium I say that neither as rapporteur nor as parliamentarians nor as SYRIZA as a party nor as a Qualified Opposition we have the position that Mr Bogdanos has now said. Our position is as follows: we believe that the possession of a weapon, explosive or whatever else must remain a flood - the strictest one provided for in the code - with a prison sentence of three to five, and even valued. If the New Democracy account, with the non paper it gave to its members, is that we say something different, we correct them once again. Not everyone who climbs upstairs can say "Mr. Lappas said he's carrying a hamsman..." and developing the theory of the bald ones in the same way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u268	You said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u269	And say something? For what Mr Bogdanos indirectly accounts for, for what he has spoken about, we must tell him that there is the provision of Article 200 of the Criminal Code, which provides for everything as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Bogdano, he didn't remind you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u272	I'm very pleased for Mr. Lappa's approach...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u273	Three times he's clarified it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u274	And we have clarified many things many times and no one listens to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u275	Look, this can't go on. Ladies and gentlemen, we can do so much of this: someone from this side would say 'Lappas said about this particular issue...' and, of course, the Member would rise, ask for the floor on staff and say the same. It's the second time it's happened. I hope it doesn't go on. Mrs Papakostas has the floor, and then Mr Hatzhivassiliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we dare and will progress vigorously in the implementation of our government programme, a programme which the Greeks and Greeks have most trusted them in order to finally return normality to our country. The Bill on the Criminal Code and Criminal Procedure brings changes that are necessary, as among other things, they are mainly based on the public on a sense of law and enhance the cohesion of our society itself. Our country is primarily required to comply with Community directives, but also with fundamental international texts and will do so. It will be re-evaluated with the obligations laid down in the relevant Greek Convention with the OECD, as well as the obligations imposed by GRECO. The inconsistent and problematic changes of the previous government with fast-track procedures before the elections, which may hide political aspirations, such as active bribery, which you have degraded from a felony, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, have led us to recommendations from the OECD and, of course, have caused stormy reactions not only in the legal area but also in the whole of society. So your remarks and your red cards are yours. We in the current motion for a resolution are squeezing the cord and the political framework and we are not blinding the practices of this type, certainly broadening the circle of political persons persecuted to the extent of a felony on the crimes of corruption. We are making substantial changes so that our country is brought into line with the European Union's decisions and directives on terrorism, further shielding the legal framework regarding foreign-supplier travel or financing and information in order to carry out terrorist actions. We aim to ensure that Greece adopts common sense and stops receiving comments on self-evident changes in its legislative framework. We are amending provisions on matters which are deeply concerned by any healthy citizen who sees people who have committed serious crimes to date enjoying good legislation which is of concern, displeasure and anger, sometimes, public opinion. The country's legislative framework has come to modernise, but at the same time to tighten up on some important points, in order to contribute to a more general change of attitudes and attitudes. So we are intervening with the provisions concerning polyisovitas, who will now have the right to release, after they have given at least twenty-two years in prison, instead of seventeen years of imprisonment today. We are strengthening the legal feeling, by tightening the penalties for theft offence, a phenomenon that has been under way in recent years of the crisis, and which even has a bearing on society, as thousands of our fellow citizens, who have been victims, have been unjustified and do not feel justified by the penalties imposed. So from now on, a felony with a maximum sentence of ten years, but also a penalty of money, will be both the distinguished theft and the consortium of two or more people who have formed a gang for this purpose. And in the last case, in fact, it will be indifferent to the value of the thieves. With the proposed provisions of this bill we are more protecting public spaces than any interruption in their operation, as well as civil servants from attacks on them. Our priority is, of course, the incorporation of the sense of security and we do not intend to favour any violations of these provisions. And I think it is necessary at this point to refer to an extremely important and crucial issue, in my view, which is included in this bill, an issue that concerns us all and all, ladies and gentlemen, each family, every village, every small or large society: the amendment and addition of provisions concerning driving under the influence of drunkenness, alcohol, and the provoking of material damage and the loss of human lives. Every day, unfortunately, we mourn victims to the dogmas. It is estimated that one death in five road accidents is related to drunk driving. Every year almost a small village is lost. And that is something, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot and cannot afford to allow it to happen anymore. Strongening the legislative framework may intensify the sense of justice, but its main and primary aim is to prevent the offender and to demonstrate the zero tolerance of our fellow citizens - and I hope three hundred Members - in this dangerous, self-destructive and deeply anti-social behaviour. We understand and are grounded that, even if we do not change our Criminal Code together, we are making substantial contributions, targeted, studied, mainly with the security of our fellow citizens and the protection of their property. It is very hopeful that during the committees of colleagues in the New Democracy and the Opposition they have proposed tightening up the legislative framework regarding the offences of rape, childcare and immigration. The first issue is a phenomenon which, whenever it happens, shocks the soul of all of us. And I could at this point not agree entirely with Mr Tsigris's favourite colleague's view that if a child is killed he dies once, if he is in a hurry, he dies every day. It is therefore incomprehensible to provide favorable legislation to criminals, ignoring the violence of a childish soul attack. The issue of migrant trafficking, their massive economic exploitation and the inhumane and degrading way in which people trade in their supposed salvation must at last come to an end. But, on the other hand, I cannot hide from you that I am surprised by the views of certain SYRIZA colleagues on the occupation and transport of molotov bombs in a European democracy in a European country in a time of peace. So simply and logically, with the capital lamp, as you yourself pointed out, Mr Lappa, and you will forgive me for saying so, I would also like to remind you of Emeida Tsakalis, thirty-six years old, on Friday Julia, thirty-five years old, and four months pregnant Angelica Papathanasopoulou, thirty-two years old. Do you remember them, Mr. Comrade? They are the victims of Marfin's tragedy, which were burnt alive because of some molotov, a molotov that someone carried to the point of tragedy, possibly in a backpack. So for these victims, who have been lost so unfairly, but also for so many of them, and for their families, we must at least do what is self-evident. So stop, ladies and gentlemen, from seeing reality through a deformative lens of your political ideas and finally acknowledge that this is a strong effort by the present government to bring not only the compliance of our Criminal Code, in line with European standards, but also to restore order and security, as it has previously promised to the Greek people and as he ultimately expects to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u277	I have no objections. I feel that there is a debate on whether there is a legal distinction between possession and use. This is where my colleagues insist that it does not exist. This is a global originality, but anyway. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] That's what I imagine you'd say, Mr. Lappa. Mr Hatzidis has the floor and Mrs Ahtsoglou follows. But before that, I would like to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of Greeks, fifty-four students and students and three educational sessions from the 12th Gymnasium of Patras (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Hatzidis, you have the floor for seven minutes, followed by Mrs. Ahtsoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr President. This bill is another proof of the consistency of speeches and works of the current government. We had expressed our disagreements when the SYRIZA government had brought to the House a new Criminal Code, without any consent, we committed ourselves to immediate change and we are doing so today. The bill contributes effectively to restoring the sense of law and security for citizens, which has been severely affected in recent years. We all remember the provocative permits to barbecues and terrorists. We all remember the tolerance to all kinds of violations, 'Rubics' and others, which unfortunately led to the rule of law being subjected to a general disgrace. In addition to what has been said positively earlier, with this bill, the country is fully in line with the decisions and directives of the European Union and the Council of Europe, successfully shielding our legal arsenal. We are also implementing the commitments made by the country towards GRECO and the OECD. Article 187a is of particular importance. The government is right to tighten up the framework for all types of terrorist activity. From the first steps of organising the various terrorist nuclei to their criminal activities and attacks aimed at imposing supposedly revolutionary ideologies, the rule of law must take strict measures. We in the House also owe it to the citizens and especially to the new generation. Protection of freedom and insight into the sense of security is neither right nor left choice. It is a fundamental principle for a favoured and democratic state. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago we saw pictures of wards from universities, where equipment and equipment were being collected for making improvised mechanisms. And all this next door to rooms where hundreds of students come in every day. And I wonder: How far is that from committing serious crimes? What prevents the person who today holds a molotov from holding a revolver tomorrow? The answer is one: the law. And the democratic state must respond. And he answers with the law and the protection of rights. So we will give the universities back to the students and cities back to the citizens and send a clear message that this state is favoured. No one here has the right to instigate the self-protective, terrorizing and intimidating society, to impose its views. And because I mentioned it before, I would like to focus on the issue of ASEAN. It is regrettable that SYRIZA has forty-eight hours avoided any statement until New Democracy caused him. And I'm saddened by his deafening silence in attacking Mrs. Kerameos' office. It goes without saying that the automatic condemnation of any violent attack. Tolerance to such phenomena, unfortunately, is dangerous. Finally, I would like to refer to the question of the penalties for refugees' traffickers. Their crime, ladies and gentlemen, is double. On the one hand, they exploit human suffering to speculate and, on the other, hit the country itself, contributing to the worsening of a problem that the government is struggling to solve in the best possible way. It is necessary to prevent penalties from operating and the direction of the bill is correct. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill contains changes to a number of issues, as the rapporteur and the Minister have rightly presented. We are voting for it for a simple reason: it will make citizens feel more secure and security is a condition for freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, too. I will give Mrs Ahtsoglu the floor from SYRIZA. Then Mr. Lazarides, Mrs. Vultesis, Mrs. Biziu, and then Mr. Loverdes will take the floor. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u280	Mr President, I want to talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u281	Even later? All right, then Mr. Vlachos, Mr. Rousopoulos and Mrs. Makre will also speak. This is the host after Mrs. Ahchioglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u282	After these colleagues I will speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u283	Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President, and I would also like to thank the House for the tolerance and the possibility of putting me on the table earlier. I would like to focus on a regulation that includes this bill and which I consider to be extremely problematic, particularly offensive to Greek society, especially if one has a minimum memory of the historical reality of the economic crisis. It is clearly about the issue of immunity that this bill guarantees bank executives with regard to infidelity committed at the expense of the bank's assets. What does this intervention say in the Criminal Code? It says that, in fact, the offence of infidelity against the bank's property will only be persecuted if there is an indictment - i.e. - by the bank's own executives, namely the bank's own administration. This is a provision which, in my opinion, is unconstitutional and insults the principle of equality. This arrangement comes to put an extremely favourable framework only for banking institutions, contrary to other private enterprises and finally to apply a clear saying: "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks." In other words, the bank officials themselves will be the ones who will have to be indicted in order to prosecute themselves, that is, to prosecute themselves for the offence of infidelity. First problem. Second problem: Banks are not any private business. Banks are a hub in the Greek economy, it is a hub of the national economy, it plays a leading role in the balance of the country's overall economic system and with little memory of the recent past, it is also a hub that Greek citizens have supported with multiple sacrifices in the previous period. I am obviously talking about the recapitalisations made to banks during the period of the economic crisis. So it cannot be dealt with without anyone taking into account how this intervention actually affects the public interest, in the interests of the Greek economy and the Greek society, that is. No one can, in other words, offer this immunity to the offence of infidelity, without taking into account that the banks are not a private company, perfect, but are a capital that the Greek people have supported many times in order to return to normal levels the Greek economy. If the opposite were the case, that is to say, giving this special criminal treatment to other private enterprises, but not to banks, then one could discuss it. However, to be given to the banks, which have such an interest in the public interest in the economic interest of the Greek State, and not to be given to the other private undertakings, even though it is challenging. Thirdly, this regulation takes over the huge extent of the offence of infidelity. In other words, it takes a series of actions which harm the bank's property, such as the granting of sea-fashioning. The granting of sea-fashioned loans, i.e., air-free loans, will no longer be prosecuted unless the bank's own officials have recourseed against themselves. I think everyone understands how insulting, problematic this is. He also takes over the cases that one will invest in a bubble. And I don't mean a small investment, a single executive, I mean an overall bank policy. That is to say, this regulation comes to understand the whole policy that a bank can pursue. A bank may choose, for policy reasons, to grant loans without guarantees, without collateral, to become more competitive than another bank. This act, this crime will no longer be prosecuted, unless the bank's own management itself are appealing against themselves. It therefore takes over a huge framework, which concerns the whole business policy, which is a hub of the national economy and has been supported by Greek society. I have heard from the Minister a typical isotopodical - in my opinion - argument that it was SYRIZA who opened the way, so that the felonies are persecuted and therefore 'don't blame us, you have opened the way for it'. In the Criminal Code, what was done on the rule of the SYRIZA is in very limited and weighted cases, indeed, the prosecution of felonies by imprisonment. However, this is in no way about the offence of infidelity, and under no circumstances about all banks and all the bank transactions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u285	Mrs. Ahchioglu...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u286	You have the ability to take the floor after. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u287	...extremely limited weighted cases. I could give examples. It is quite different for a member of the board of directors to deceive the rest of the board of directors and to do a limited act, which may cause a problem in a certain volume of a private company and completely different from the bank's overall policy - for example,'sea-loans' - to be surrounded by immunity. I think everyone can see the different facets of these crimes. The fifth and most problematic issue is that, essentially, this immunity comes to understand all the outstanding cases. As a provision of substantive law and more favourable criminal law, it also takes over pending cases. This means in practice that you are prosecuting top bank managers who are currently active will cease to exist. Don't tell me the argument about the four months you give us time to make calls. Anyone with an elementary picture of historical reality knows that banks are not going to make calls in four months against themselves, right? So top cases of prosecuting administrative bank officials currently pending, especially for maritime loans, will not be persecuted from now on. The Association of Prosecutors has condemned this arrangement for this reason in a very denouncing statement, which says that the arrangement leads to impunity, to an international rupture of the country and a number of cases will be brought to the ballot of unpunished cases. I have heard the argument that this arrangement only comes to make it easier for banks to cut red loans. That's false. The regulation does not focus on the haircut of red loans. If so, he would photograph or specifically define or limit its scope only when we have debt restructuring. But that's not what it does. As I said, it takes over the entire range of policies a bank can make. Let me note that there is an active law since 2017 - on SYRIZA - which provides for a very balanced system, which explicitly stipulates that you can exclude such cases that will only make restructuring of debts, only haircuts, not sea-loving, not investments in bubbles. So what has New Democracy done right now? The government has lifted every potion in order not to prosecute these cases. It concerns every case of infidel behaviour, not just red loans, and it actually provides that executives themselves will control themselves, that is to say, those concerned will insult themselves. I have also heard one argument that this favours trade freedom. I think this is an extremely refreshing argument. It's not a trade freedom, is it? The private debt crisis was not unresponsible for individuals and for specific operations and for bank managers. So, in our view, this is an extremely challenging, insulting regulation for the Greek society, which also affects the work of the Greek people, who supported the banks in order to restructure them, and it must definitely be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much, Mrs Ahchioglu. Mr Lazarides has the floor, and then Mrs Vultesis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u289	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are all talking about tightening up the Criminal Code. But let us ask ourselves this: Impaction on what exactly? In my attempt to answer this question, I will start by saying that we have a structural difference with the previous government. Your DNA is the mess and the chaos, while in our class and the housekeeping. How does that prove? First of all, of what you have to say and do in the last three days, after the intervention of the Greek Police at the University of Athens. Mr. Janakopoulos came to the point yesterday to tell us that they didn't find kalashnikov at the University of Economics! But I'm starting to prove to you that you've been with the mess and the chaos since 2008. SYRIZA never deplored what happened in Athens in December of that year. Let me remind you of the "anti-slavery 2008" published by SYRIZA's official newspaper, "AGEY": They said: "O latte, omelo, what nice you grab, in the Constitution, what nice you grab, cops full of branches and platoons in a row! Oh, come on, come on, you're not gonna get away with me! Well, I'll burn you one night and let the cops in the branches!" I'm tabling the relevant report on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr. Mercos Lazaridis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Tsipras actually supported these events. What did he say then? "The main thing is to see why these thousands of young people went out and protested in the streets. They may have also committed marginally violent acts, but the issue is finding the causes." Let us now move to SYRIZA's support for 17 November. Geramos Balaouras said in January 2016 that “17 November” had an ideal in favour of man. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr. Mercos Lazaridis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] SYRIZA officials had testified as a witness to the trial of accused persons for participation in the terrorist organisation "17 November". For the economy of time, Mr President, I am tabling their names in the Minutes and only saying that they were Nikos Manios and Panagiotis Lambrou. [[At this point, the Member, Mr. Mercos Lazaridis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is not just '17 November'. I refer also to the talks that former Minister of Public Order Yiannis Panousis - your Minister, not our Minister - has submitted to the public prosecutors for the underground relations of SYRIZA with terrorists. I would remind you that in these dialogues, which I present in the Minutes, there was a SYRIZA member transaction with imprisoned members of the "First Warrst", who said that "we will bring the legislation you want". [[At this point, the Member, Mr. Mercos Lazaridis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Then let's move on to the political coverage you provided to the violence in the first years of the memorial. Top is Mr. Tsipras' statement on October 26, 2011, two days before the parade in Thessaloniki, which never started: "The reaction has arrived," said Mr. Tsipras, "and in the parades. They will not be able to stand at a social event," he said at the time, apparently displaying divinational abilities. Of course, who can forget Ruvik's 'political activists'? I remind you of statements from the top executives of SYRIZA. Janakopoulos: “Activistic energy the invasion of “Ruvikon” in the parliament.” Kourublis: "In every society some decompression valves are needed. Friend: "It's not an attack on the tiles and the paints. They are activist actions." And all of this, when at the height of the uncontrolled action of "Rubicon" it was a straightforward threat that was then unleashing to the Chief of Officerial Response, today's Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Of course, we must not forget the famous questionnaire of SYRIZA youth, in which - beware - 'unconventional activist actions' are based on organised thefts of supermarkets and participation in violent incidents. I answer the questions in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr. Mercos Lazaridis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, you are not worthy of opportunity to update your interest in protection for the balls. For you said, Mr Lappa, 'What crime is the one carrying a molotov doing?' Then you had to get it back. But you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u290	You're a liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u291	Don't give up on that. You'll hear it all now. But the crown of all - and for which I am sure many in SYRIZA are enthusiastically proud - are the walks that were cut off in the early years by the architrocrat Koufontinas on the streets of Athens, on the same roads as he had set up a death cart on his victims. Look at this, it is, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and I am tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr. Mercos Lazaridis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The sentenced to 11 times life and twenty-five years of imprisonment to participate in eleven murders, explosions, robberies and participation in "17 November", without a sight, without remorse, without remorse. So I return to my original question: Improving exactly what? As to the immunity of ideological immunity, in terms of tolerance to extensive cases of violence and lawlessness, in terms of support for all kinds of blasphemies and turmoil in terms of the improvement of human life and property? If it is about them, we must not, ladies and gentlemen, talk about strictness. We must talk about restoring the logic, measure and re-establishment of the public on a legal basis. We in today's bill create conditions of real legitimacy. This is how we stop the flirting of the previous government with lawlessness and anomaly, and finally the Greek citizens from now on, with what we are going to vote on today, can move, work and create more security than in the last four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u292	Mrs Buddhistis has the floor, and then Mrs Biziu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we have been living the total surrealistic thing. Everything like we've seen somewhere before. Tsipras re-weared his bubbles and went back to PPC for the first time after July 2014, which had climbed to Amyntheos. Dritsa made a statement about 'COSCO' because - he says - the Piraeusians wanted to post banners when the President of China appeared in the Acropolis. The Syrians came down to the port of Piraeus to welcome immigrants. Tsipras submitted a topical question to the Prime Minister about white collars and bankers, with whom he had been fine so far. Iglesias with Sanchez, Morales, and the grief and enthusiasm that Morales left, the man who deceived me, wanted to remain for the fourth term in the presidency of the country. That's it! Hey, guys! Welcome to 2014! We were here, and we were here again! In the meantime, of course, PPC was destroyed on the rule of SYRIZA, its stock exchange value was depleted, half of the euro was sold, and you put it in the militarisations of May 2016's SYRIZA SYRIZA and now weep and weep. As for 'COSCO', you remember that the SYRIZA TIDE celebrated in 2016 for the transfer of 51% of the PPA to 'COSCO'. Now where were they, where were all these Pirates protesting, the so-called students, where did you have them hidden and where did they have their banners hidden and pulled them out again now, as soon as New Democracy was in the government? Where were those boys and girls back on the streets? We're not talking at random. And where were the merciful symbols who welcomed at Samaras - Venizelos all the immigrants in Piraeus and who had disappeared, as if they were not coming to Greece all this time and went back to Piraeus? We are also talking about Tsipras, who is screaming again against the white bank collars, who, before he grabs power in January 2015, said that SYRIZA would put the banks under public control, grabs the 3 billion euros from the CFS to share them with the people, creates a public private debt management body that would erase the people's debts, speaks of new seismism, and thus fooled the world in January 2015 and took the authority. Then you continued in September 2015 to say that you will make red loans and all that has happened in SYRIZA's day, as far as banks are concerned, is the bleeding out of our deposits of EUR 40 billion only in the first half - this nice, heroic and festive - to close the banks, to impose capital control, to bring third recapitalisation, to eliminate the stock exchange value - after PPC - and to hand over all the public assets to the excesses and all the Greeks' loans to foreign funds, remember them, the "wormless corps of destruction", as Mr. Tsipras said, and now you're talking about immunity. I have heard Mrs Ahtsoglou and Mr Janakopoulos, but they are not in the Chamber now. I heard a speech about this alone: did the SYRIZA - ANEL government give or not - why did we forget him, too, Kammenos - immunity to foreign fund executives, who SYRIZA brought to Greece in 2017? I don't think you're questioning it! I have here Law 4472/2017, which I am presenting for the Minutes. I would ask Mrs Ahtsoglou to be given to see what she has voted on. He has voted for immunity to all foreign fund executives. Did you or did you not grant immunity to the executives of the U.S. government? [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also have for Mrs Ahtsioglou and for all of you Mr.4389, with whom in 2016 you vote for immunity to the executives of the Ultrasembly. In other words, Tsipras, who gave immunity to the supranational and foreign funds, is now coming and crying for the banks, even shouting that they had given some immunity there. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why are you doing this now? But obviously to support your propaganda, that you've been fighting the old and that you've spotted a triangle between banks, media and parties. You set up a full investigation, you found that there was no evidence and nothing came up except that SYRIZA was the only party that received a loan after 2012 with a guarantee of its state funding. However, it is true that SYRIZA had voted against Article 5 of Law No.4304/2014, which prohibited the granting of state funding for a loan. Tsipras was the only Chief who sent a letter in December 2010 to a bank and asked for a loan by way of derogation from credit criteria. SYRIZA, the only party that deleted a debt twice, one EAP and one for the building of Koumoundourou. So obviously you're doing all of this and you're saying it, like all the complaint I've heard here, because you want to keep some cases alive after dozens of interrogations from which you haven't been finding anything since 2015. For your propaganda! For Morales, of course, I don't have much to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u294	It's okay. Pipin says it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u295	Yeah, he's saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u296	Let's calm down. Let us move on, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u297	Look, because you want to go people to twenty inquiries every year, go and come, file memos and you have acquitted all the superstition and all the foreign funds and don't find anything to the previous ones, I'll tell you something about Morales. Morales was a dictator who was clearly thrown by his people, but Mr. Tsipras welcomed him here as "the companion Evo and the friend" and you had tipped our head. Morales is the one who lowered the childhood limit from fourteen to twelve years. And when they said to him, "What is it that you did? You built a million children slaves in our country," he said there's a need for work. Morales ran a country that was one of the fifteen countries where women to work had to get their husband's permission. Morales was the man who had provinces in his country, where 35% of the girls don't go to school. And Morales...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u298	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u299	These are of interest to the growers of coke, the "coke" your friend!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u300	Don't catch a conversation, please. Let Mrs. Vulture finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u301	Finally, you cannot defend a dictator who illegally claimed a fourth presidential term. There are two terms in the world. And Tsipras went out to tell us "the Republic will win". What democracy will be won when you want to go out for the fourth time with a fraud? Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mrs. Vulture. Mrs Biziu has the floor, and then Mr Vlacho.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is not just another bill of the Ministry of Justice. It is a bill of demand for Greek society in order to restore normality in our country and daily life. It is a bill demand of Greek society in order to correct the distortions created by the previous government's interventions in the field of justice. Interventions filled with ideological strangles, which have come to provide protection and asylum to individuals and interests who question the very core of our democratic institutions. Fortunately, however, those who attempted to do so were found to be inhabited politically, morally and socially. The Greek citizen told us in his vote that he would not be willing to see a number of people illegal and unpunished. It goes without saying that the efforts of some members of the Greek Parliament to justify the unrest with the hoods and all those involved in the molotov sport. Unfortunately, even recently, we heard that it is not a crime to carry molotov's bag. As a young woman, a representative of my generation, I state very clearly and unequivocally that this generation, the creative and productive generation of the Greeks, opposes those who defend violence and destruction. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill solves a number of issues that have proved to have caused the legal feeling and had an impact on the social and economic activity of our fellow citizens. In recent years, a new phenomenon has bloomed in Greece, which we called 'blackness'. With tolerance, and many times the acceptance of the previous coup d'état, the bachalakis occupied property, plundered and destroyed. Now that's over. Any person entering public buildings, OTA buildings or AECF buildings to cause disruption in the performance of the service shall be punished. The previous government not only was tolerated, but many times its officials rushed to justify such illegal behaviour, talking about activism and thus offering ideological coverage to the illegal. What we are saying is clear. The citizens are protected by the institutions of the state and not by the self-dedicated avengers. No one in this country can take the law into his own hands. This is a key pillar of democracy in an organised, favoured country. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we will all agree that the country must be shielded against terrorism and terrorists. Today's bill is also moving in this direction. Our internal legislation is in line with European legislation to deal with the crime of terrorism which, unfortunately, is both domestic and imported. We do not expect to suffer, but we are taught by the events that have taken place in other countries of Europe recently. That is why we are legislating on prevention. Travelling for the purpose of committing or contributing to the execution of a terrorist offence, contributing to activities of a criminal organization, even if it does not prove possible to link them to specific crimes, are only some of the provisions introduced by this bill and is a one-way path for the legislative arsenal of any country fighting against terrorism. The security of our citizens is supreme and unnecessarily good. However, this point of the bill, which particularly touches me as a human - and I would like there to focus - is driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs. It is a provision of vital importance that has already been delayed too much. It is a provision that responds essentially to a long-term demand from our society. The tightening of penalties for those who lead under the influence of alcohol or drugs. This is a self-evident arrangement for every society that respects human life. Because driving under the influence of alcohol is an extreme antisocial behaviour. It is a behavior that shows indifference to the life of our fellow humans. It's a behavior we can easily control. There's nothing to force us to drive drunks. We choose to drive drunks. We choose to be indifferent to human life. It may be that the death that causes anyone who leads to drunkenness is as we say 'in negligently', but the choice to catch the steering wheel in this situation is intent. Our message is clear and clear. The imprisonment of up to ten years for those who cause death is only the expression of reason and respect for human life. I would personally like to appeal to every Greek and every Greek guide. All together, build a culture of safe driving, so that this law will remain inactive. We cannot lose so many people every year on the streets. All of us, all Greeks, must be aware that alcohol and steering wheel are not combined. The aim, ladies and gentlemen, of the law being passed, is to restore the sense of law in the country. The Greek wants to feel that there are no individuals or groups of people who enjoy impunity. The Greek demands that anyone who is illegal should deal with the law and its consequences. The Greek demand that Greece end with lawlessness. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote in favour of the bill of the Ministry of Justice, because that is the demand of Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mrs. Bisew. Mr Vlachos has the floor and then Mr Rusopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed regulations amend controversial provisions in the penal codes that were adopted in the previous period by the government and which have caused strong reactions, both in the legal world and in society as a whole. We have had these reactions, because today it is actually more obvious that there was a desecrated, a rough way of legislating and that the problems of this legislation did not appear in practice. Today comes the government and the changes promoted tighten the penalties for individual crimes concerning terrorism, invasions in public buildings, construction and use of explosives, releases of polyisoviers, attacks on tax and bribery of civil servants, driving under the influence of alcohol. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] In particular, provision is made for an increase in the level of actual penalties to be imposed in the penitentiary from the seventeen to twenty-two years in order to establish a right of application for a conditional dismissal of convicted polyisoviers. It is something that we have also lived through in practice, and we have seen the results. At the same time additional diagrams are being created for the protection of public order, as the use of explosives in a pooled crowd is reconversioned. Here too, we have seen that the previous law has caused huge problems and - if you like - the government must give solutions to what the whole of society has seen, has identified them as problems, and the government really has to resolve them. In addition, the draft law provides for stricter penalties for offences committed during the authorisations of detainees, in order to fully and without counting the benefits of wages. The provisions of the bill make substantial changes so that our country meets the decisions and directives of the European Union and of the Council of Europe on matters of terrorism, further shielding the legal framework against these crimes. In addition, the provisions of the bill restore the regulations put forward on active bribery in order to bring our country back into line with the obligations laid down in the relevant Greek convention with the OECD. In the bill, too, there is a series of changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which speed up the administration of justice, such as the reintroduction of the single court of appeal. An Deputy Prosecutor’s post against corruption is also recommended in proportion to the provisions relating to the Prosecutor of Economic Crime. With regard to the specific provision of the Criminal Code, it is necessary to protect the sensitive right to public silence and to reduce it to a slight flood in order to ensure that the police have attested infringements. And on this point too, I would like to stand - and - if you want - with that to close, because many wondered how the Minister suddenly started and dealt with common silence. I must tell you that I - and I imagine some other colleagues - have sent letters that we received from associations in our regions and have actually asked - not us, clubs, citizens - to change this lawlessness regime that could at all times, anyone who wants to put - the simplest thing I will say - the stereos, not respecting anyone. And what were these citizens asking for, as some guy told me in a city? "We don't ask for anything else, My George, except after the fatigue of the day to go home and rest and sleep. Somebody respect us!' What's happened so far? First of all, the police had no reason to go, because even if it were to go, they could not impose any penalty. Go, at best, make a recommendation, lower the sound at that time, and the police just left again in the intersection, which we're talking about. That was practically the case. Today, the police are given the opportunity again to intervene, go to check and, in any case, the person who is illegally afraid - within or outside of the introductory wording - that a penalty may be imposed on him, something to be done. And here I would like, Minister, along with the effort you are making, for which I congratulate you, in fact, for having responded to this request from the citizens and the mayors - I know that the mayors of my region have visited the Minister and raised this issue and we put it here today in Parliament - I want you to go one step further. Let's talk sometime about confiscating these machines. I'm not saying the first. But when a recommendation is made, it becomes a second recommendation, it becomes third, what are you waiting for now? To seize the machines. Another vaporized machine, what are we waiting for? Do we expect the evaporation to grow on its own? So something has to be done. That's what it's all about. And that's where the law is really aimed. Some have said ‘How will the shops work?’ Nobody minds the stores. After all, I want to believe, because in my area I have many shops, most of them - not to say all - of rare exceptions during the summer months, respect the peace of the citizens. So there's no problem with the stores. And if there's a discord somewhere, of course he's not above the law. And he's to apologize. Why so much arrogantness to any businessman who, whatever time he wants for his own interests, does he not let the world rest? So the law must also be enforced there. Let us be sure that this legislation, Minister, will find a great deal of resonance, because the police are really making sense again. Because it wasn't a few times when you called the police station and they said to you: "There's no point in me going. I went last night. Let me go tonight, tell him what?' Now we now allow the audit bodies to go into control, to record the problem, to have - if you want - a defendant, to be brought in, to be punished, and, of course, to have the fear, as I said after some warnings, that it can also be this tool with which they are illegal, whether it is stereo or any - a machine, a car, made up of the kind made at nights, all of this could be at risk until it is lost. Otherwise I don't see how many people can rest. And here we are talking for the many, not the few who want to self-determination, to design what they think and what they themselves say is not respecting society, which I consider to be, ladies and gentlemen, of all the wings, that we are serving. We serve the many. And what I'm saying - I guess - it's about everybody. They don't have party time. The reactions that exist from these clubs must tell you that they were from clubs that are not political in the area of New Democracy. But their logical argument cannot be that I, as a Member of the region, do not make it a flag. And I imagine that colleagues, at least, of SYRIZA's Attica, would do - and they must do - the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport "Following the Council of Europe Convention signed at Maglingen/Macolin on 18 September 2014 on the manipulation of sports matches, urgent measures to tackle violence in sport, conversion of the Greek Olympic Committee to a legal person governed by private law, ratification of its new statute and other provisions". Mr Theodoros Rousopoulos has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing today, namely the amendment of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, the New Democracy had promised this, explicitly, by election. We are applying at least one of the five main points on which the Greek people voted. The bill elects problematic provisions, incorporates international practices, significantly speeds up the efficiency of justice and makes it more secure to link the offences to its legal consequences. In this very direction, the planned changes respond to the urgent need to address as a society extremely problematic attitudes and practices. First of all, we have stricter penalties for offences, such as trafficking in human beings and rape. Such strictness sends a clear message that we as a society are determined to show zero tolerance and to close any loophole that allows such criminals to fall softly, making use of favourable forecasts that - for the sake of parliamentary dialogue that when they were put in place to accept me - were introduced in many with a different target. Of course, tightening alone is not enough. But the complexity of the problem must not and cannot be an alibi of inertia or reassurance. Nor can the invoking of other steps necessary to establish a rule of law in the country be used to cancel this absolutely necessary update of penalties. Moreover, the ideological tolerance to molotovs, the loopholes of political interventions in the work of justice that undermine transparency, problems to which this bill deals, are ultimately aspects of the same phenomenon. What phenomenon? The deeply misguided impression that legality is something relevant, which may, on a case-by-case basis, and depending on who is in power to break down or shrink. It is abstract of the idea that parallel to what the law says in the papers, there is no harm in having a different system of 'rules', which describes what is actually done and permitted. In liberal democracy, however, these attendances act as a legend of undermining citizens' confidence in the democratic culture and its officials. They undermine every positive prospect of growth and advancement. They strengthen those who see society as a gamble of zero sums, where what one is gaining must necessarily lose it and where the production of truly collective benefits is inherently and legally impossible. Faced with such a pessimistic and misconception, we respond with the certainty of the law and the speed of justice. We respond with the proportion of penalties to the offence committed. We respond constantly by strengthening the rule of law. We respond by answering that these conditions may be heard on some pedestrians, but they are the conditions for fairness and social harmony. Ladies and gentlemen, there are particularities of our people, which we must at all costs respect and safeguard. The peculiarity of the law, however, according to the ideology, objectives and links of everyone, depending on the neighbourhood and the place where everything is committed, must not be one of these peculiarities of our people. After all, when the law is applied selectively, they are always the least powerful. Self-determination friends of the people insist on supporting selective lawlessness will be good to see what the consequences of this choice have been in our country and in our society. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that, however popular the case of Mao Tse Tung has been in the past, in the republics the great turbulence, seldom, is a wonderful situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u308	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mrs Makrei has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the photographic provisions of the Criminal Code, adopted by the SYRIZA Government on its own, despite the total reaction of the opposition at the time, only a few days before the national elections of 7 July, which entered into force since 1 July 2019, gave the right to dismiss four polyisoviers of "17 November", including the leader of the terrorist organisation Alexander Yotopoulos, who had been sentenced seventeen times to life and twenty-five years of imprisonment. In particular, Article 110A of the Criminal Code enabled them to apply for release, come out with a rock and stay at home. And Dimitris Koufantinas, the prisoner of Volos's rural prisons now, eleven times isovita and twenty-five years in prison, could submit a request for release at the beginning of September. Furthermore, a request for release following a merger of the sentences submitted to them and five members of the “Conspiracy of the Firearms”. Their request was based both on the provisions of the Criminal Code, adopted by SYRIZA, as well as on favourable provisions of the Law of Friday. In addition, the same criminal law was also a result of the release of the convicted Aristides Florus felony. The long list, ladies and gentlemen, holds well for many cases that have shocked public opinion and which have evolved in a way of great doubt, as they have been judged in the courts on more favourable conditions, such as the murders of Gregopoulou and the six-year-old Stella, Marios Papageorgiou, the rapist of Daphne, Alket Rizai. At the same time, in Kassavetea Volos prisons, one of the prisoners submitted applications for release from prison from early July 2019, using favorable criminal arrangements. During the summer, every day, Volos Prosecutor's office was flooded from four to five applications for the release of detainees claiming release before the end of their sentence. In fact, there was at least one prisoner's release from the Cassavetea prison every day. From the above, ladies and gentlemen, it is understandable that instead of the SYRIZA Government taking the opportunity to update an all-time-old criminal justice system dating back to the 1950s and adjusting the country's legal system to a reality that has been adopted and followed by almost all European countries, it was simply for electoral reasons that they would bring about a lower penal deception in a number of criminal acts provided for by the Code and thus become the passport for mass criminal liberation. At the same time, it was intended to shape a climate of euphoria in a wider anti-powered area, with the expectation of release of sentenced members of “November 17”, taking advantage of the possibility offered by the new Criminal Code. It is worth mentioning that daily in the Criminal Code, passed by SYRIZA, crimes were discovered that were converted into defects and then eliminated, while other defects that were abolished were not even provided for administrative sanctions. For example, the disruption of public silence was abolished as a flood, while for offenders no administrative sanctions were provided for. That is why, Minister, it is in the right direction and the position and clarification you have made in your initial speech to this House. The previous government's choice to launch a series of such unprecedented developments confirms its morbid tolerance to all kinds of lawlessness, even to terrorism. The New Democracy and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, consistent with its election commitment to the people who trusted her, in this bill makes everything necessary to amend controversial provisions of the codes that have caused the previous period intense reactions, both in the legal world and in the wider world. It is therefore coming to abolish or amend articles that scrutinise or nullify penalties for defiance and crimes of terrorism, prevent the mass imprisonment of unrepentant murderers, but also the impunity of wrongdoers who have been sentenced many to life. At the same time, however, these changes should also meet the priorities set by the New Democracy Government to tighten up the penalty framework and harmonise the new Criminal Code with the public on the right of citizens, and restore their security. And he's doing it. Among the changes launched by the new leadership of the Ministry of Justice under this bill are the amendment of articles of the new Criminal Code, which have turned a number of delinquents, the modification of the existing softest criminal framework for drug and arms barons or archbishops, the arrangements for the rape and rape of children, in general for particularly cruel offences, the conversion of the possession of molotov from a felony to a felony, and the conversion of the crime of corruption and corruption into the public again in a felony, which the OECD had strongly reacted. Now, with innovative provisions, the legal cloak around the members of the anarchist group is tightening up, but also around persons committing offences against notaries carrying out auctions. The legal framework is tightened up for those who are attacking civil servants in the performance of their duties, such as the attacks that were carried out last summer by tax officers who carried out checks. The country's criminal arsenal is also being strengthened in terms of terrorist offences, as internal legislation is brought into line with a Community directive and for the first time criminal sanctions are even laid down for actions to date unpunished. Finally, for polyisoviers, such as those condemned for the “November 17” case, it is foreseen that they will have the right to seek release only after serving twenty-two years after the sentence imposed on them and not seventeen, as foreseen by the reformed Criminal Code on SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, in summary, the proposed amendments to the provisions of the Criminal Code are more than ever necessary in order to restore normality and regularity in society. It is an obligation, both in the legislative and the legal community, immediately with a great deal of care and consideration, taking into account the deafening messages of the indignant society now, to heal the mistakes of the past, by drawing up and voting on a bill, a legal text that will withstand time and is modern and acceptable to the citizens. That's the way this bill is, Minister. I will congratulate you both on your legislative initiative, but also on the omission, because the substance would be lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u310	Me too, my colleague. Now Mrs Zoe Rapti has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u311	Minister, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today amends controversial provisions of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which were voted on by the SYRIZA Government literally on the eve of the elections last June. These provisions have caused strong reactions throughout the past period, both in the legal and political world and in the Greek society, as the relief of sentences by SYRIZA has enabled many indictees to be treated favourably. So our Government with this bill responds to its pre-election commitment to tighten up the penalty framework for individual crimes in order to strengthen the security of citizens. The first objective of the bill is to strengthen the instruments for combating terrorism. The will of our anti-terrorism side is timeless and irresistible. Our party has been hard-bodied in the past with victims, such as the infamous Paul Bakoyannis, and that is another reason why we are firmly and firmly opposed to terrorism. We have proved this with the recent dislocation of the arm of the "Revolutionary Self-Defense" organization in the previous days, so we will continue. In particular, therefore, it is increasing from seventeen to twenty-two years the time to be spent by a polyisobite to qualify for conditional dismissal. In addition, stricter penalties will henceforth be imposed for offences committed during the authorisations of detainees, so that they are fully appraised without the benefits of wages being met. Thus, provocative images of prematurely detained sentences for terrorist acts and horrific murders of innocent people circulating undisturbedly in the center of Athens will now be a past. Furthermore, they are now legislated as self-criminal acts and imprisoned by imprisonment to provide information, funding and recruitment of members in a criminal organisation, offences very seriously against society and civil security. In this way, offences with this bill, which fall under and are considered terrorist acts, are thus expanded. Moreover, the threat or stimulation of terrorist acts is now punished by imprisonment for up to five years from three years on SYRIZA, even when carried out online. These arrangements strengthen the institutional arsenal of the organised state against terrorism and cross-border organised crime, as provided for in Decision 2008/841 of the Council of the European Union, and Directive 217/541 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which lays down rules on the definition of criminal offences and penalties in the field of terrorist offences. Thus, our country is finally fully and successfully in line with what is happening at European Union level. The second objective of the bill is to strengthen public security. To this end, the use of explosives, our well-known "molotovs", is now punished by imprisonment of up to 10 years. Moreover, anyone who manufactures, procures or possesses explosives, of which there may be a risk to humans, will henceforth be punished by imprisonment of three years. We are now putting an end to the peculiar immunity and impunity that prevailed until now to those who were building to launch molotovs and burn policemen, as recently in Exarchia, where they burned members of the DIA Group. I would also like to wish, Madam President, for those fellow citizens who are being tortured today. The same applies to those who are trying to burn public or other buildings, such as those that were destroyed by molotovs, and I speak both of the Painting and Penteli Police Departments and SKAI TV, where by no chance we have mourned human lives. We are therefore rejecting the provocative provision introduced by SYRIZA, by which the perpetrator holding explosive bombs was not punishable - listen, listen - if he was arrested by the authorities, he willfully deliver the above materials. Furthermore, stricter penalties are imposed on those who invade and occupy public buildings, as unfortunately has happened many times in the past, and they imposed the need for recent police operations to evacuate many buildings in the area of Exarches. So it ends up with the informal impunity of every "Rubic" type organisation, as there is now a prison of up to three years for anyone who illegally enters and remains in public buildings, whether these are hospitals, embassies, courts, utilities, and thus causes the interruption or serious disruption of the proper conduct of the service. Furthermore, the framework of the punishment of serious crimes such as rape and paedophilia is more stringent, and I would like to congratulate the Minister for the introduction of these legislation. The rapists will now be sentenced more than ten years, and they were formerly sentenced five to fifteen years of imprisonment. And also, if rape was committed by two or more commonly acting perpetrators, life imprisonment can now be imposed. These provisions also tighten up the penalties for pedophiles, too, in conjunction with the provision of Article 439 of the Criminal Code. Finally, it is worth noting the change made to Article 374 of the Criminal Code, where the offence of theft when it is committed by two or more perpetrators turns back into a felony adopted on a SYRIZA, a necessary restoration that will strengthen the sense of security for ordinary citizens by the gangs of people who are thefty. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill the Government of New Democracy remains faithful and unequivocal to its election commitments to the Greek people. And it seems that this disturbs those who care for condemned terrorists, but also those who are in danger of suffering every day's human lives, destroy public property and expose the country internationally. We account only for Greek society, that is to say our fellow citizens who trusted us with the rule of the country and with what we are discussing and voting today we are strengthening the sense of security for the ordinary citizen, fighting terrorism with greater force and improving the efficient functioning of justice. That is what we committed, and that is what we are doing. Greece will have to become a true rule of law again and our society will have to live more safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u312	Mr. Andreas Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Madam President. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we current lawyers should have a Criminal Code and a Code of Criminal Procedure. I have here two with me, a Mars Penalty of Charalabakis and a Code of Criminal Procedure of my colleague Mr. Sevastides. We had them for a few weeks. However, we have not had them for a few weeks precisely why the August amendments were made and let us finally end today so that we can safely use the legal texts. I remember and recall - the New Democracy had left, we with the Communist Party had remained, denounced and left - when one day before the House was dissolved, in summer, brought a thousand articles - how many of them were - ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, vote on them in the process of codes of course - constitutionally anticipated, no objection - but in the process of 'take it or leave it' without consultation. You will tell me 'the consultation has been done, because for ten years they have been preparing'. Yes, but from Kastanidis we started and every minister changed the prefectures. And Mr Paradoxopoulos, our colleague, promised us that in March of '17 we would be done. Paradropoulos left, and Kontonis left, and Kalogeros came, three! And last day we had proposals from public prosecutors, who the House honoured with its choice when the proposal of the Ministerial Council came to the committee to choose, to say who we find most appropriate. I was saying everywhere that Law 1608/1950 should be changed about abuses of public money. That's enough! This is a 1951 Postmortem Law. And this very right change has actually been made. I said two months before the House was dissolved: 'Get in this or just the financial crimes, which you vote on, to vote on them'. But you were afraid to say that you were electoral economic law. You were embarrassed! Why are you demagoging, as you are demagogling today for infidelity. What were you doing here? You brought them all together to hide these right things, but you couldn't stand them politically, choices. After a few days - was it a week? - by Act of Legislative content you made the first changes to the findings of the hasty work. That's exactly what it was. Whoever says it wasn't, doesn't tell the truth. In August the government brought the legislative act to ratification. He promised he'd bring change and bring them. It is clear, unequivocally, that the world is listening to us from outside. When we institutionalise substantial criminal law, we are talking about the legitimate goods of people outside the House. When news issues become controversial or sharp, then everyone turns and looks "who voted for them?": Alpha, beta, gamma, delta. Clear words, so that the citizens can hear us, so that each and every one of us know what we stand for here. We say 'yes' to the person who torpedoes the institution of the prisoner's license, who is a breathing institution, because when he comes out he does other offences. 'Yes', then, that's right. Stricter punishment! 'Yes' to the stricter punishment for torture with racist criteria, certainly 'yes'. 'Yes' in cases where another molotov is carrying out felonies now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u314	Did he drop them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u315	Why does it carry it, ladies and gentlemen? It's an offense of abstract risk, as we say in law. Why is he transferring them? To take them for a walk? Oh, no. He's transferring them to use them or someone else. "Yes", then, especially in Greece and Athens, with the experience we have. I have a colleague sitting in our seats, George Arvanitidis, who outside the PASOK offices ate a molotov on his back, and if he wasn't a former quarterguard, he would have burned down. I do not agree to discuss this issue. 'Yes', because here we do not even have one exceptional use once in ten years. It's a rule. 'Country and string'. 'Yes' to the provisions that strengthen our positions in the fight against terrorism. ‘Yes’ to join the distinguished theft of theft by two or more. 'No', however, Minister, in the procedural article 7. Because this is where my colleagues have heard it, because you have been here since the morning - the continuation of the substantive criminal law is standing. In the procedural case, which is the substance of the law, no one enters. We, at the Change Movement, also enter into this. You told us the Financial Prosecutor and the Corruption Prosecutor would be consolidated. We heard it, we said it too. Where's the unification? Not only do you unify these two services, but you add a provision, which existed from the Rupakiotis era, where you transfer to their jurisdiction and any corruption crime involving officials referred to in Article 13 of the Criminal Code. In other words, 'denses', that is, hundreds of cases. Current prosecutors of economic crime and corruption are comfortable being blamed by anyone who does not have time to do their job and is not in line with their obligations. They may, if they do not have the favor of any of their supervisors, be disciplinaryly audited for this. You give them all the staff? You're abandoning your position for a merger. I would like you, Minister, to have dared to abolish them, at least the Corruption Prosecutor. Because, as we said in the Revision of the Constitution last year - and we supported it with a lot of arguments - their existence insults the principle of a lawful judge, excluding from the prosecutor and judiciary - I am referring to the corruption investigators - some who feed them to faces of another order and forefight. In order to be wrongful, as I experienced most of all, it is enough for a minister and two prosecutors to set you up. You should have changed that. In any case, if you are not so courageous, you should have merged it, as I think I have heard you say, and I am sure that the New Democracy, on the other hand, may have supported it. We will vote against Article 7. And because under each heading of the article you put too many cases, this vote will take with it and as many provisions as we say 'yes', because we agree with them. You are also bringing an amendment today, which contains the correct provision for increasing the number of lightnings in two cases concerning rape. I remind the majority, which was not here on that day - two, three colleagues were, more were the participants in the prefecture, when we denounced you and left, because you brought these two codes in a hurry - that you brought them here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u316	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u317	Come on, it was five, ten, Mr. Comrade, so I wouldn't ruin your grace. They were officially sitting over 20. You have brought a provision of change, with the agreement of the committee, within Parliament, in breach of the relevant provision of Rule 76 of the Constitution. That's how hasty you've done. So now this provision is still getting tighter. And I'm with you, because the whole world is with you, because it's right to regulate the rape of the Criminal Code as you regulate it. I have no words to say about Article 3 of the amendment, which has a very bizarre story.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u318	He doesn't have any articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Lappa, the report has a numbering. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 and 2016 - it is not handmade to me - Mr Papagelopoulos came here and himself was forbidden to a friend of the people - 'although they call me populist', as he said - and changed the provision of our own, our era, our majority, where the use of illegally acquired evidence was a felony. In other words, to a felony and no possibility of being exploited in a preliminary investigation, interrogation or a main trial. He came here and said that, because there are a lot of times and the times are difficult and corruption is great in Greece, if it is to locate a felony and punish the perpetrators, it will be exploited, even the illegally acquired evidence. It was applied in one case. I'm not talking, I don't want to blow it off the conversation. It's over. And then you come in the summer and get it back. Why? Are you afraid of something? Do you have any fear, and you get it back with this hasty legalization on the eve of the elections? I think you have some fear and it's time for this to appear. But because I cannot talk about my affairs or my faith in something and my conviction, I withdraw that argument and say that I shall vote with both hands, Minister. In the same amendment, however, you have something else we are talking about. Mrs. Giannakopoulos, I think that this morning was clear and in committee she was clear, but you don't listen to us. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to infidelity, I have heard SYRIZA colleagues - and I imagine that both the rapporteur and the parliamentary representative will remain in this - saying that you are changing infidelity? You're only indicted? Whoa, whoa, whoa!' How you change things, you say. It is from newspapers, which is why, in a way, I, too, reserve my absolute discretion. As a result of the previous arrangement, what you're supporting is that no one, but no banker, will sign anything for a red loan. Unless you like where the red loans go to the funds. Like once they go to the funds, for the man who can't afford the problem is solved. It's like that's the reality. As if the fund has no right to it. Red loans today are 80 billion. The costs of the bank’s recapitalisation are 64 billion. Red loans are the scourge, the great problem of the Greek, Greek and the economy. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was a member, as I think Mr Lappas and Mr Gilolas were together, of the Committee of Inquiry into the loans of parties and SMEs. What were you talking about? Report to date: Officials do not sign, Madam President. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Collins, for his excellent report. Thirteen cases in the file, ladies and gentlemen. One case partly in the file. Six cases - I won't say the names, it doesn't make much of a difference - in preliminary. Four more cases to the district attorney. It's the setting. However, for the employee, who is not the banker, as a colleague from SYRIZA said, he is not the member of a board of directors of a bank, he is an employee - until he is acquitted or filed, he and his family have spent five years, seven, eight years in the trouble. Is that what you're defending? Good for you! What do we say? We say that the argument about changing the current provision is the same as the argument on red loans. Exactly the same. I deserve two answers, and I close, Madam President. What difference does sociopolitical decency differ from fraud to misappropriation where you keep another scale there? From the fraud, which socio-political decency has more to do with infidelity? None! Fraud's worse. The embezzlement? There is no problem that you have done these things, you have changed the arrangements. You don't have a problem. In infidelity you have your mind, because there is a demagogic field. So I deserve the difference in terms of insulting a legitimate good. Lawyers must be placed among you. What's the difference? First question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u320	It's a hundred twenty thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u321	What you now say about the amount is another matter. It's to reduce a felony to a felony. But I say, but answer me. Secondly, this is a serious matter. Who has shown that he can do more in bank-bad papers, bank auditors of the Bank of Greece, or prosecutors, who are gathering excerpts from newspapers, many times - this is what Mrs Gennamas called 'Public inflation' - and after seven years the people who have been afflicted are being acquitted are being acquitted? The Bank of Greece has an audit mechanism, a quasi-equity authority. That's why we trust her. Now we're talking to you. What do you mind in the setting we've proposed? Firstly, we have asked you - our disagreement with what I am about to say now - not to be in the amendment, the other right provisions on rape and the other provisions on 'unlawfully acquired evidence'. Split it out. Because there is a party that tells you something else and a party that defends another provision, wrong, but another. Why don't you let us vote together on provisions that we praise and congratulate you? I don't understand you. That is, however, an amendment. You'll see it, I guess, by night. We, ladies and gentlemen, what do we add? We say that because things are as Mrs Giannakopoulou said - so is the reality - what do we want, ladies and gentlemen, and other parties? We want, since it is possible for the public prosecutor to make a preliminary point, that he cannot prosecute if he does not have control of the Bank of Greece. Who says no to this combination with a quasi-control body that enjoys independence and knows what he's doing? And the Criminal Code has security formalities, certain damage, etc. Because the loans, Minister, all include a risk. You lend a business, and she goes bankrupt. You lend a man and he dies, and their relatives can't. Everyone who gives a loan takes a chance. Loan includes loss risk. So here we say about the abuse of this opinion, this conclusion of control of the Bank of Greece, the auditors of the Bank of Greece. "Yannis buying, does Yannis drink?"? You're making a mistake! You're away from reality. You do not know exactly how the audit has been carried out so far, what its findings are, what assumptions they have gone to justice as a result of the audit. We and we know them - because we are watching them - and we are asking you to confuse with this regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made an ambitious effort, within the limits of the time given by the Rules of Procedure, to address the House and the Greek society with great clarity. I would ask you very much, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to see what we are proposing and to make the amendments, as the logic requires, but also the parliamentary order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u322	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u323	I'm closed. Because whoever listens to the opposition, where she is right, in the field of logic, wins and does not lose.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u324	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I'll give Mr. Heta the floor from the Greek Solution for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u325	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Loverdo, the truth is, I'm following developments very closely in the Change Movement. I think you're not a party leader. You spoke nineteen minutes. I didn't say anything, of course, because I wanted to hear from you. [[Noise-protests from the wing of the Change Movement]] No, let me say this. I'm saying that in a very good mood. You had six minutes because your Chief had spoken before. Our guy spoke to us at nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Comrade, you're right. It's my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u327	I didn't say anything. I barely like him, and I just wanted to hear him. To show you I'm in a good mood. I'm humorous. I'm saying what I want to say with a sense of humor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Comrade, allow me. It's my fault, because I wasn't properly informed. You're absolutely right. But let us not make it a matter, and let us continue with the fine process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u329	It's okay. I say this in a good mood, Madam President. I'd spotted the wrong one in the first place, but they didn't intervene, because I wanted to hear him. I declare my good will. I just wanted to put it because our President, who is a party president, spoke for 15 minutes, and Mr Loverdos spoke for nineteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u330	I'll tell you what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u331	I'm fine. That's why we left you. Minister, I will come to you now and more generally to the New Democracy party. Me, you know, I like this. I have been following it with great interest both in the committees and in the plenary. And since I am a good student, Minister, I am attending all my lessons, and I always come to read, that is, I do not come to a loss and one at a time, I like to start by adopting words and designations such as 'death immigrants', such as that you are stricting offenses of paedophile and smuggling. I heard Mr Kaklamani yesterday - who is one of the mildest - the Vice-President of Parliament, who said to build a fence in Evros, who said that as the Prespecies for SYRIZA, it would be for the New Democracy the handling of illegal immigration. I heard you took back the provisions on blasphemy. I'll come back to this a little later. Some of your MPs are a little confused. They come, they speak to us, they express our opinions. You put them on your own. There is, in general, a bunch of ideas. I will tell you, Minister, that you do not need to copy the excellent and the good ones. You can adopt some of our proposals directly, which are clear and pro-electional - not only in this House - because we were elected and shared by them in the world. So you copy the perfect ones. You have the lysari in your hands. Take it and use it. I now come to the blasphemy fiasco, Minister. I have heard your answer and what is your thinking. Why was your thinking not the same when we were talking about the three of us in the hallway in the committee's margin, which you explained why you were reintroducing the blasphemy provision? What's changed since then? And nothing else, Minister, you are so fast to change that you are confusing even your own Members. Some of them play it more patriots than others. And you know, I am addressing Mr Bogdano, who has been able to tweet, Minister. Mr. Bogdanos did so with pride, of course he left. They return - it says - malicious blasphemy and devotion of religion, two years in prison, etc., the majority have the same rights as minorities. Mr. Bogdanos said so proudly. How could the man know that before you're a paractor you're voiced, the Minister will have taken it back and will return to normality, the other normality of the New Democracy. Because there are two regularities. There is the one regularity of Mr. Kyranakis, Mr. Bogdanou, Mr. Plori, Mr. Adoni, Mr. Vorides, and there is also the regularity of Mr. Mitsotakis, Mrs. Bakoyannis and all others. When you decide which normality you follow, tell the world, your voters, because you have confused them. We don't have a problem. Our hug is open. They're falling on us. But decide what policy you will follow. And since I told you that we were talking in another room about the sports bill, set up and bet in general, really today, with this change, Minister, "fuck all those who had been betting that you would really adopt blasphemy. Mr Velopoulos, our President, has asked you, because when a Christian insults the aunts and concerns the Islam, he must be punished by racist law and it is not the same for us. It is highly racist, anti-orthodox and it is the New Democracy's choice, which proves that it is not just fearful, it is dangerous too. The behaviour of the New Democracy is once again racist at the expense of the majority of the Greeks. It is a good thing, Minister, that you have heard and tightened the sentences for pedophiles, the sentences for poachers. But we're clear and we always say it. And you say - I don't understand, you told me in the hallway your answer - that there is no life. What's he gonna say is there's no life? When we say life, we mean life, neither seventeen, nor twenty - two, nor twenty - three, nor eleven, nor fourteen years. The one who touches a small child must not see the sunlight and the one who moves human souls and sells drugs must never see the sun light again. It's over! All the rest is we have to talk about strict penalties. Leave the rest. And now we go to 'no tolerance to crime'. But you did say election, unfortunately. You know what, Minister, and gentlemen of the New Democracy? It is not enough to limit the action of "Ruvikon" or not to allow Koufontina, who did soulasa and walks where he had killed some years ago as a demonstration of SYRIZA's power, because then he allowed it. That's not all. It is on the positive side - we are not talking about it - but that is not enough. I also remember a statement by Mr Ploirou, a low-speaking election. He had gone to Exarchia and said that this space would be cleaned soon. He didn't clean. Mr. Mitsotakis said so. Unfortunately, he didn't clean up. And they don't clean the Exarches, not because there's no way. The police know that. I have a statement from the Secretary-General of the police officers who told me that if there is a political will and a mandate from the state, we know who they are, where they live, what number of shoes they wear, we clean them up in forty-eight hours. It hasn't been done, Minister, even in our universities. Unfortunately, they became the boxing police bags. And I come now to the people of SYRIZA, who were rather comfortable looking at you. It's your turn. Who are they now talking about using violence, ladies and gentlemen, and the pain of their own children has now caught them? Those who ruled four and a half years with MATs! You are talking about the Maximos with the crubes, because no one dared to pass, you who were beating Greek citizens, protesters against auctions, you who were beating Greek citizens from those who are protesting for power breaks, from whom you were confiscating the accounts and those whom you were throwing out chemical and wood to the rallys against the suppressed Ambassadors' agreement. And you're talking about using violence to the Greek people! But now, of course, your loved children have been hurt, your client has been hurt, because above the security of the Greek citizen is your client and your client is always right! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr Marku, it is not about your comment, but on the occasion of a statement of your own - because I think you are an excellent university - I want to make a position on what is going on in the universities. I was upset by your position that they did well - I am honest with you - when the padlocks broke some restless spirits when the university was closed. There's no reason to open the university. So much study and study? This is where they're 50 years old and they haven't obtained a degree yet. Did the pain catch them going to attend a class when the Senate made a decision - the university's highest body - to shut down the universities so we wouldn't get killed? We'll have victims, don't you understand? And you say they did well. I want to tell you something because I have a kid in college.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u332	Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u333	I shall conclude, Madam President. The greatest cause of university haggling - or one of the largest - are some teachers - I don't mean not all of you - who, instead of lighting up democracy or leading our children, what did they do? They did the wrong thing, allowed the universities to become a man of lawlessness to serve even their own climbing purposes. Unfortunately, this is the reality, Mr Marcos, and I would like you when you are given the first chance either of a mass media or of the Step of the House to say "I take back my statement" and that the universities do not belong to those children who break and bring clubs and molotovs, but they belong to our children, who get up in the morning to take the bourgeois to attend their lessons to the children of the Greeks! These kids belong to universities and not to your spoiled children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u334	Before I give the floor to my colleague Mr. Markopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u335	Madam President, please, because it is clear that I have to reply to personal questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u336	Mr President, I will give you the floor for a minute, because there are too many Members who have to speak and we have to finish the procedure, because I have the feeling that there will be a roll-call vote and you understand that we will be going too far. For just a minute, please very much, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u337	Thank you very much for understanding. We'd agree if you'd been upset because the Senate shut down the university, not because the students did their duty. Then we'd agree. It is clear that it is impossible to agree, because you, to close the university, regard it as legitimate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u339	We therefore consider that the closed university is the most tragic conclusion of a procedure and in this sense my view is that they did well because they defended their right to enter their homes - not the Bolakies - of the University of OPE and at the same time I have to congratulate them because they were worthy of the spirit of the day. Sorry when the universities close, not when they open. And to clarify, there may be times when others might close a school or university. I'll be here, and I promise you I'll be against this activity. So you call it off, because the Senate has closed down the university, under the circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u340	No, no way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u341	And you know what else? It's got the climate. I'm afraid we'll see worse in the next few days. I'm very afraid and we're disfellowshiping it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u342	Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u343	There's no way I can give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u344	I just want to say that I do not withdraw, I get nothing from what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u345	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the 7th General High School of Patras (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Demetrios Markopoulos has the floor for seven minutes from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are unrepentant. And you are unrepentant because what we heard before Mr Marcus, with the chain saws and what we have heard as much as Mr Lappas is shouting about the molotovs that he did not say, we have eyes and ears and I think we can all understand what was said and what was not said. I'll give you a news. Soon ago we were in SKAI with Mr Balafas, who said the bat is not a kalashnikov! Let me remind you, to teach you a little bit about the recent Greek political story that Kojamanis bat hit Gregory Lambrakis and killed him. I really think about the question. Where are you going, what are you doing? Have you really cut anything from common sense? Why are you doing this? Why do you do it in democracy, why do you do it in Parliament, with what you sometimes hear in Parliament and at the end - why do you even do it in your own party? What for? You're always flirting with the mess. You are giving him - and this is the worst - political dimension and substance. You're ideology the mess. With your intervention in June and the two codes, we essentially had extensive suspensions of persecution, limitations of offences, dismissals of detainees. Is that what the Greek society needs at a time when crime is seeing it rise? Is that our need? The new Criminal Code, as presented by the Government and the Ministry of Justice, is a result of modern times. Like Chaplin's film "Modern Times". We're living in a new era. You, of course, cannot understand that because of ideology. You have stayed in an old fashion - to say it Greek! - in an old-fashioned practice, the '80s complaint. Have you realised that you are a Dedicated Opposition? Change the moth, and I'm telling you this with appreciation. We, you know, need a fruitful and mature Census, which you do not offer. You offer a model election show, a political show. We have heard a lot of the anti-population colleagues, but what we have not seen, we have not felt is that they press their words in modern everyday life, in the new era that has been. For example, we have not heard a good thing about the tightening up of penalties for migrant traffickers, about the new arrangements in the years of imprisonment that are being imposed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, who are very sensitive, as you say to us, we challenge you: You who on television windows are being cut off for immigrants, for the pain, for their suffering, for you who are talking about their rights and how modern slaves will ultimately not exploit them, what do you have to say about that? How do you put it? So here, do you disagree or do you agree? We haven't heard from you. So tell us what you think. And, of course, you can tell us why there has been no such intervention in your day, such as that of the Minister responsible, Mr Chiara, whom I congratulate. You sell us migratory, refugee, weeping, weeping, weeping. Why didn't you do that? Tell us about it. How do you put it? Why, while the issue of illegal immigration existed, did you not do anything to deal with it at its core? You didn't care about human pain at the time of your governance? Obviously, no one cared about these people who have been enclaved by gangs of poachers in the yachts and the occupations of Excavations with, as you call it, the "babys". That is not what you are concerned about, of course, that poachers have made this process a mess. That's not what you're interested in. Only pour the tear cord into the television networks and say how sensitive you are. This is a sensitive policy, because it comes and increases penalties.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u347	On fire, there's worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u348	Look, I told you, old fashion you are, old-fashioned. You're a personal old-fashioned, too. All right, now, we've heard it both in the '80s and in the '90s and 2000s. You said the same thing. Grow up!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u349	You're modern now!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u350	Much more than you, Mr Barkas!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u351	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u352	We would like to hear a constructive speech on your part to tighten up the framework for punishing rape. Can one trample human dignity and go out in zero time outside prison? You of women's movements, of human emancipation, of dignity, expect you to say a good word, say something. In a Greece which has changed dramatically and where lawlessness has erupted over your days, in a Greece that has heard incredible things from your ministers, for example, that there must be consultation with the collectivities of the Exarchates, that is to say, those who every three and a little burn in Athens, we as a government come to act decisively, directly and by means of a method. Greece must also protect its children. He must strike a throat, paedophilia. All of us who have or have children understand what that means. Ladies and gentlemen, crime in our country has been struggling for years. The worst part is that lawlessness has become a kind of institution, especially in your days. And that, because many governments refused to see the obvious. Penalties have evolved into scars. There was a culture of impunity. A culture which is at odds with pro-Greek society. This was even done on simple issues, such as noise pollution. We've seen hard professionals kill, rape, move people and in a few years, with a rightful logic - which you know, you've got good with them - to take off 'clean'. We have seen the 'blacks' burn, your own children, as someone had said - Mr Drasakis, I think - Athens and nothing happens. Nobody did anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u353	Fly mud in the fan and where it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u354	Let's make a decision and let's understand it. In Athens there is government, there is law, there are rules. You don't like them, you make them spacious...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u355	Oh, in Athens! In the district?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u356	All right, you're yelling. Madam President, I suppose you will remove the holidays from my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u357	Please don't answer, so I won't take the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u358	Minister, I would like to congratulate the staff of the Ministry of Justice and you personally for the modern context. Now let those who live in 1950, 1960, 1970, or where they live. Gentlemen of counterpopulation, I invite you to be serious and to review. Since you want to evolve into a modern power party, as you say, it is good to abandon your ideological approaches, these 4% ideas. If you do not, soon this 4% will perhaps become even less for you. Watch out, and what I'm telling you is friendly advice. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Zebplis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u360	Madam President, I ask the floor because it has been mentioned in my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u361	It can't be every time you mention your name to take the word. He wasn't personally mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u362	For ten seconds, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u363	Please, Mr. Comrade! You don't have ten seconds. The speaker's up, and he'll talk. It's over! Mr. Colleague, start.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u364	What you do is not compatible with the Rules of Procedure of the House. I hope you keep this in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u365	I am well aware of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President. Mr. Zebble, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u366	The great liberal philosopher Montesquié said that citizens' freedom depends primarily on the quality of criminal legislation. In fact, it must be understood that the provisions of a Criminal Code do not constitute mechanical regulations, limited to the limits of a legal microcosm, but concern social organization and economic activity as a whole. Indicatively, a procedural requirement regarding the birth of criminal prosecution, Article 390 in infidelity, can have a favourable impact on the lives of thousands of borrowers, the greatest possible possibility available to credit institutions for the restructuring of non-performing loans, in particular in order to protect people's property and popular residence. It is clear that the adoption of such a legislation, such as the Criminal Code, which strongly puts the social problems of its time, should seek wider political consensus and alliances. Unfortunately, the previous government insisted on bringing the draft law to a vote during the election period, turning the Criminal Code into a matter of acute political controversy, due to the critical voting time, but also to substantial criminal provisions, which were also condemned by the Prosecutors' Union, which warned of limitations and mass liberties in a variety of cases, at the risk of the break-up of public security and the cultivation of a reasonable sense of impunity to the victims of criminal acts. Thus, we had a new wave of releases, such as prisoners for distinguishedfts and other offences, following the thousands of prisoners' releases and the release industry, due to the disability of the decongestive law of Paradise. For the tragic consequences of this practice on increasing crime, it is sufficient to mention that recently detained terrorists had been released under provisions of this law. In the wake of this unprecedented situation, the New Democracy was committed from the outset to restore citizens' security by reviewing and abolishing problematic provisions of the Criminal Code. Today, in this draft law, the government as its first concern shields transparency in public life by reconstructing the offence of active corruption from a felony and other provisions on political persons. At a time when our country had a high level of corruption in the International Transparency Report for 2018, the priority of the SYRIZA Government was to degrade the penalty framework for this impunity, causing the country's international defamation and the reactions from global organisations. Furthermore, this draft law satisfys the public on law-enforcement by tightening up the framework for complex political crimes related to the modern anti-Statist city and neoterrorism. It is certain that effectiveness in the fight against extremist action, high or low intensity, requires police operations and special legislative measures. The law protecting academic freedoms and the free movement of ideas and abolishing the asylum of lawlessness has already been passed and implemented, an asylum that had transformed university spaces into molotov-building workshops and into hostages for cruiser attacks, as demonstrated by the latest police operations in ASEAN. The New Democracy in its election speech raised the issue of civil security as a top issue, at a time when lawlessness tended to become a morbid normality due to the tolerance and mild management of this antisocial phenomenon. It has also been shown that the systematic resumption of unlawful acts, which are disapproved at the outset, but which are transformed into ordinary ones, results from some time and beyond as unnoticed, because they are actually incorporated. Thus, it was part of our daily lives that the collectives of the anti-insurance space, which used the university space as a banquet or a safe house in their robbery with the police forces, sometimes occupied by academic institutions, which sometimes invaded the Pentagon, the perimeter of the parliament or embassies, intersecting the country and, of course, the unbaptised excavations were in the pyramid of this normality with the occupied buildings and cases of extreme invasion. After all, it has also been pointed out in the field of sociology that an area, such as Exarches, which is showing signs of neglect and decline, is gradually leading to ever more and heavier criminal behaviours which, if not combat at birth, will certainly lead to a dismantling of the social fabric and an increase in the insecurity of citizens. This theory has also recently been confirmed by the findings of a terrorist organisation that had a heavy arsenal and enhanced operational capabilities. It turned out, in other words, that the same people who had the district of Exarchia were also the ones who were leading in bombing and in attacks with kalashnikov and were again the ones who led the anti-semitists in dozens of attacks on molotovs against mainly police forces. Many times, in fact, the police forces were themselves the target, such as the MAT platoons in Harilau Trikoupi, when they were beaten by molotovs and when with kalashnikovs. It is obvious that anarchist extremist activity is the precursor of terrorism, as it is an appropriate ground for radicalisation and the recruitment of individuals. In fact, there is sometimes also a snob with traffickers and common criminals. It is clear that the mind and political idea, even the most extreme, of our liberal legislation and pluralist society, is not criminalised and is not oppressed by threat and punishment. However, the one who will hide arson mechanisms and molotovs in his backpack, to participate in the rebel city, has already made its decisions and has made the passage from the insurrectional action to the organized anarchist armed struggle. Because, as Manoledakis said, "to attempt the dynamic rescheduling with the established power, he should be required to participate in an organisation, otherwise he is either a psychopathic or deeply objective person". The occupation of improvised arson mechanisms is not an isolated and spontaneous act, but is part of the organised armed struggle. Nor, of course, is this an instant reaction, because its consequences are permanent and are permanent in the lives of people who are lost forever. They are also permanent for the loved ones who have been lost, so permanent that they will not stop thinking about the tragic consequences of this momentous act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u367	Me too, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u368	Madam President, I would like the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u369	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u370	The following words shall be added to the internal paragraph of Article 1 of the amendment No 80/3 12-11-2019 of the Ministry of Justice after the words ‘financial institution’: ‘or financial sector undertakings’. It is, of course, about the amendment in question which we have to cover in all respects, which will cause no problem. I'm tabling it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u371	I would ask that it be distributed to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u372	Of course, I can tell you that the amendment under a general number 77 and a special number 2, tabled by the Ministry of Finance, for arrangements on the Legal Affairs Council of the State in relation to the Criminal Codes, is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, it concerns the fact that we have been solving practical problems that have arisen since the implementation of the Codes since 1 July 2019, regarding the request for a public appeal in cases of criminal negotiation or conciliation. This amendment ensures the economy of criminal proceedings, of course with the participation of the representatives of the Legal Council. That amendment is accepted. After all, it is also signed by the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Gikas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with a statement. The initiatives taken by the SYRIZA government over the past four and a half years, in the area of justice, have been completely unsuccessful. Remember Law No.4322/15, the so-called Law of Friday, where in the first eight months of operation of the thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven prisoners, barbies and others were released. Let us say that in the first year of the renewal of this law, thousands of others were released and only paedophiles were excluded. We must also say that in these laws, many demands, constant requests, the terrorists - four out of five, if I remember well, who were asking - met. You spoke about human rights and said 'we owe it to human rights'. Really, was that respect for human rights? Wasn't it human rights - their trespassing rather - when on your day all citizens were tax-numbered lists and there were violent account and property seizures? The second attempt was just before the elections with the change of the Criminal Code. He created a lot more problems than he solved, and I think the country's legal world says that in every tone. So the initiative taken by the government was a pre-election commitment, which, as all of us are doing and, in fact, within a short period of time, was correct. By now entering the substance of the bill, I will focus on three - four articles, which I consider to be important. One is Article 110 which talks about the minimum prison time for polyisoviers. Until now the threshold has been seventeen years, rising to twenty-two. Also, for beneficial cases, it grows from sixteen to twenty. We must realise that when a strict penalty is imposed - and to impose a strict penalty, it means that someone committed a real crime - it must remain strict. So one is Article 110. The other is Article 159 on corruption. The provisions on bribery and bribery now refer to the whole political spectrum and Members of Parliament and not just to their election or vote. Also, the provisions on bribery and bribery apply to the Prime Minister and to the Ministers, MPs, Regional Governors and the State Secretarys, which did not exist before. In the New Democracy, we believe in strict rules and their implementation. We don't exclude anyone. All political persons must be treated equally against the law. Another point on Article 137 and 137a. It is essentially the harmonisation with directives of the European Union and of the Council of Europe for terrorist acts. Europe's directives are harmonized on matters relating to terrorist acts and organisations. They are intended to combat terrorism. In particular, acts to contribute to the activities of a criminal organisation such as the provision of assets, financial instruments, instructions, information, etc. shall be aimed at self-determination. In addition, it is clarified that commonly dangerous crimes are now included in all crimes that pose a risk to the number of people. In addition, crimes against the public order, including the illegal market and arms possession, are being added. At the same time, the provision of training for the construction or use of explosive weapons is transformed, and is punished by imprisonment for up to five years, three years before, the public threat of terrorist acts and the public stimulation of a terrorist act. Another important article is Article 272 on which a lot of discussion has been held and about the construction and possession of explosives. In fact, the whole debate has taken place over the last few days, which I think should not have taken place. Because he doesn't expect honor in the political system to say that molotovs are a weapon and the other one is not. Ladies and gentlemen, from molotov lives have been lost, property has been destroyed, private and public property has been destroyed, and this issue is well dealt with in this draft law. I would like to say a word about some of the proposals which the Minister has rightly accepted. I shall refer to two of them. Of course, it's Article 336, which refers to rape. The penalty for the rape of minors is tightened, and I do not think that anyone disagrees with this, as well as with the issue of immigration, where penalties are stricter and where fines are considerably increased. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider this draft law to satisfy the public's feeling of law, improves the distortions of the previous laws of SYRIZA and I think it is well accepted by Greek society. Of course, we are voting in favour and, Minister, congratulations on your initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u375	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. I will now give the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafili, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u376	As the debate is taking place - and I would like to agree with the Minister, although he has said it indirectly - in fact in this debate on the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure there are two concepts, not six or five. One concept, which is served by the New Democracy, by SYRIZA and the parties in the European arch, which accepts the so-called European Law - and I will say a few things later, is not done 'all card'. You cannot be with the European Union, support it, propose reforms - you are supposed - and on the other hand complain about what it produces, as if you do not know that it is a dictatorship of capital. This is the one side. The other is our view of criminal law in general, which is not just about common crime. As far as common crime is concerned, there are things that we support and we will vote on, but it is more general. Because criminal law is related to its ability and use by the governments that serve and support this system, an injustice - do not tell me that it is fair - and an inhumane social system that serves the interests of the few and not the many, that is, capital. Unless you tell us that there is equality among all citizens, who will not dare. And this system of Criminal Law what does it do? Beyond the rest, in the face of common crime, it considers criminal acts and forms system insurance, so that struggles and struggles made by the people - and it is historically the struggle that has brought about change - are considered a criminal act. And I will mention the example, in order to demonstrate that there is a single perception, other than a JRC. There are so many articles in the Criminal Code in ensuring and creating the possibility of imposing and fighting workers' struggles that no one speaks. And SYRIZA, who represents the progressive, should tell us, in the amendment of the Criminal Code that he made in the articles: 134 "Sincere treason", 141 "exposes the Greek state - says - any action or ally in danger of disrupting friendly relations with a foreign state". In other words, when we say "Outside the bases of death", for example, or "Outside NATO", if the law was applied literally, we would be in jail. It also amended Articles 142 ‘violation of European Union regulations’, 167, 168, 169, 170, 183 ‘infringement of laws’. You know, history didn't happen with subjection to civil laws and laws of every system. History and whatever conquest exists, even minimal, on the part of the workers, it was not done by subjection, it was done with disobedience. Why don't you talk, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Why don't you say a word, that the Criminal Code is reactionary, and that it hits the popular movement? You are struggling with New Democracy on individual issues. And, in our view, beyond what may be there, the New Democracy is wrongly proving ideological aspects to the SYRIZA. Because, Minister, you have incorporated all the changes made by SYRIZA, apart from exceptions, and it was very natural, in our view, why you are moving in the same context. So, in what direction, over all these years, apart from the common crime, where we have been placed on several occasions, are positioning over time by all governments? Measures are being taken increasingly, gradually, to shield the capitalist system, to criminalise the struggles and forms of struggle for the People's Movement. And every time a European directive comes, it is what it serves. Why are you taking into account and taking into account the previous experience during the capitalist economic crisis and the struggles that have been developed and taking into account the demands of monopolies and business groups that want social peace? So, what does social peace mean? It means being subjected to the interests of capital, so that it can unnecessarily increase profitability. How? With over-exploitation, by intensified, by squeezing and by working relations with the "German" established by the Memorandums. That's what you want to safeguard. And it also makes provision, because we do not underestimate the possibility of capitalism making predictions for the future, for an upcoming - probably not directly but later - greater, synchronised economic crisis and wanting to shield it from now on with such laws that can use them. He doesn't use them now, because if he used them for everyone - and the lawyers and the others - half of Greece would be in prison. But there is also the social dimension and the reaction of the People's Movement. So that is what you do with this data also maintains all the reactionary provisions of the SYRIZA amendment - the same he did - and he goes on to new, truly more reactionary and faster arrangements. This confirms what we have known for many years. In order to implement the anti-grassroots policy, authoritarianism is needed, it needs repression against the fighting people. And the samples you give will be paid for. You should know that and let it look like it is. This story that I 'do what I like' is not just a question of government. And with regard to this trademark, for example yesterday, forbid the MATs from sharing notices, what law says that? Tell us. Where did we get in? A dictatorship? It is forbidden on the sidewalk of ASE to share notices. Why? What did he do? A criminal act? Terror? On the opposite side of the sidewalk, he says, 'cause that's what I want. I say a small example, because there are larger ones. And the question we ask is: does the people have the right, regardless of what they voted in the four years or in the two years' time, to fight to overthrow some things with struggles, yes or no? We say that not only has the right but must fight for it, unless you say to him: 'the only right you have is every four years to make a government', and from there on your heads in. There is, therefore, a general debate on criminal law, on the reduction of criminal penalties. It is, of course, a great debate. Maria Konnakas, our rapporteur, has been placed, and we have repeatedly been placed in this Chamber. But what now? There is a debate on the common crime here, but the limits on the offences that have been used over time to criminalise popular mobilisation are being increased. Yes or no? We have no objections to either paedophilia or rape for traffickers, but for traffickers the increase will also result in an increase in the tape paid by immigrants. That's how it's done, because your powerful system can't catch them. Everyone else can, except all of them. So I say that, while this is the case, in these offences used to criminalise the people's struggles, we have increased the limits of penalty. SYRIZA, who is now shouting like a cat in the tiles, has increased the maximum penalty from two to three years and has now been kept by New Democracy, because he found it ready. He found himself ready and retains the unacceptable addition of SYRIZA to criminalize even peaceful mobilisation, when they intend, he says, in the cancellation of a legitimate collective process. Only "law" is a cancerous word. It is written and read from the beginning and from the end. So who's legal? The bracelets used by the GFCM's mafia? The right meetings he's got? Are these the legal ones? The Thirty-three hundred builders who don't exist in Calabaka and who make fifteen representatives? The Carditsa clubs that do not exist in the first instance, no practical vote? Are they legal or are those who defend the interests of the workers and say that it will be the legalisation of the representatives here? Secondly, it turns the mobilisations against auctions into a specific offence, even criminalising the entry and stay in the auction area. SYRIZA did the same. I ask Mr Varzopoulou, who has left and talked to us about civil law, to tell us - and Mr Varzopoulou and Mr New Democracy and the others - when a worker had EUR 1,500 and a grand, his wife gets a loan that he can serve and you suddenly come and go halfway to him and is at a dead end, what he will do. Will they take his house? Yes or no? Who's to blame for that? Who's legal? Is this the worker who made the programming of his life and who can send his children somewhere more to study and suddenly cut his neck and reduce him to 50%? And what's he gonna do? How will he defend himself? Apart from your laws that do not solve the problems, it will defend itself by collective solidarity and mobilisation and by cancellation of auctions. Yes, we support it. What else can man do? What else can he do? He's gonna lose his house. So what's it for? These serve - like SYRIZA and your bankers - to unblock once and for all the funds along the path to unblock. You're threatening prison sentences. What are you going to do to them? Will you put them in? The other person who loses his home and takes his club and other bodies and protest and trys to cancel will you put him in jail? He's losing his house, you're gonna put him in jail too? So you can do the favors of whom? Finish with the'red' loans. At the same time, there was a really challenging debate on the protection of bank managers. The third issue is the strengthening and expansion of the 'terrorism', 187A and 187B. SYRIZA had it expanded too. Really, gentlemen of SYRIZA, your big declarations to abolish the 'terror' you were saying, where did they go when you entered the government? We have seen the implementation and enlargement of the 'terrorist'. Now what do you actually do? Any crime can ultimately be regarded as a terrorist act against public order. So, where are you going with this? We don't understand. You know that the position of the JRC and the communist movement on individual terrorism has been cleared up since it appeared, that it was against and that, in fact, beyond intentions, it serves the system itself. Another thing you're afraid of. You're not afraid of these different groups doing what they do and everyone. And we're in place for it. Fear the organized mass movement. That's where the system's at stake. When the people are organized, they are struggling to overthrow this social system and not the various groups that do what they do and serve well. So, what are you gonna do now? If you take symbolic possession, will you take them in for terrorism? If you follow your European friends, you should normally take them in. However, this is not easy to pass on to Greece. Not only does public opinion accept it, not just the communists and the left, but other people too. What are you gonna do? You're gonna put the strikes on? You've put in laws. 50% plus 1. You put an electronic vote. Now what are you gonna do? Will you take them to terror with strikes? And how do you liberals explain, 99% of strikes out illegally? How's it going? No worker ever legal? Is this the only thing that's legal? These laws you want to bring in, and you think they'll pass? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Leave me a moment, Madam President. Mr. Loverdos spoke for twenty minutes. I have to speak for thirty minutes with 12 or so, but I won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u377	You've also taken a second time, Mr. President. You'll take all your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u378	I'll be closing soon. Fourth issue is criminalisation of a journey when it is assumed that it is being conducted for the purpose of training for the conduct of terrorist acts. What does "carry" mean? Will the services of Spain or other countries come and say that he went for terrorism? Let me tell you. We have nothing to do with this in general. But we are telling you this: Your great and powerful European Union, how many thousands of jihadists have sent and fought? And you think they got away? I'll say it raw. No, they used them. Hundreds of thousands of mercenaries who arrived in Syria, why were they, and we have a direct perception of this - from information - how did they go there? They couldn't stop them? They didn't know? No, they went on a mission. Where was most of them trained? In California, and I don't remember what they call the other American base. Is it or isn't it? Disprove it. And what are you going to do? Will you stop? Are you taking this measure so that they won't go and train in Kobani or I don't know where else some terrorists coming here to make the revolution? Who are you telling? What benefit did these measures benefit the great European Union? Did they defeat the attacks in both France and Germany and elsewhere? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's just that your system and imperialism use all these teams fine, and when they don't, it can clean them up. Al-Qaeda, who made it? The CIA didn't do it? Bin Laden, what was it? A CIA officer, wasn't he? And then he got away with things and what was created all this time. In 187B, it will be measured - it says - in determining the penalty for offences against terrorism any judgments of courts of other countries of the European Union. You know that many do not have a clear understanding of what is happening in the countries of the European Union, because there is, of course, misinformation. It's unbelievable. You could be a terrorist for anything. There are parties that are illegal from countries in the European Union. They could wrap you up in a paper glue. And you know, beyond that, because I happened to be in the European Parliament at the time when this debate was taking place, there was a direction that was ultimately rejected for common criminal law in all the countries of the European Union. And even bourgeois lawyers and others for their own reasons said that this cannot be done. Criminal law cannot be homogenised. You support these, gentlemen of SYRIZA, for uniform criminal law. This cannot be done, because each country has a different criminal 'culture' and from other roads it has come to institutionalize certain things. This aim was to tighten up, fully reactivate Criminal Law, and that is done by the European directives that all of you have implemented in an unequivocal manner. Why? Did you go against anything? In the last attempt on terrorism, did you incorporate it? Yes or no? And others would come, you'd incorporate them again. You've got this gospel. Finally, I should like to say two words - and I stop - about the criminal negotiation, conciliation and order. Listen, Minister. These American systems - how am I supposed to say it? - they circumvent any concept of criminal law. You could do it to unlock the situation. If you want him to unblock, recruit employees, judges, etc. Where are we heading now? From a trial we normally lead to a bazaar between the prosecutor and the defendant. That's actually it. And how can it end up, to be more precise? One is to get away with it and tells you that I admit guilt, I pay some instead of running to court for three to four years and being hanged and secondly, to economic crimes with me than to say the proverb, does not make me say it - whoever has money pays, makes a settlement and goes out of a white and undefiled in society, as if nothing had happened. No hearing or public trial or nothing is done. And that's blackmail, let's be optional. It will force a world to go that way and the one with no money will be the one affected. Finally, as I said before, I will talk about these phenomena of authoritarianism. You know our views on these groups and what we think. The authoritarianism has intensified and "cut capistri" over the last few days, as they say in our village. I imagine the Minister will understand it, and those from Rome and Thessaly will understand it. There are facts that are not justified. We consider it not to be accidental, because at the moment there is a great effort to rebuild the student and the labour movement. They started returning students to conventions and I don't mean "bugs". Labour struggles began to take place and the doctrine "law and order" "goes cloud". We're warning you. I've said it before: The wood has two ends. This action will bring a reaction and the world will not be subjected to either easily or will be backwards. Temporarily this indirect horror you are trying to impose. One says: "In Bolivia we won. We will also win here." That's gonna come back a boomerang. We say: Stop, put brakes on these kinds of actions, which are aimed at the organized mass folk movement. Beat the common crime, clean the Exarches from the drug dealers, and there to discuss it all and not force and "law and order". You should know that 'we don't chew'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. It is known in this House that there is a request for a roll-call vote by the Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left coalition. "To the honourable President of Parliament, Mr Tasoula Konstantinos. Mr President, On the basis of Rule 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we Members who sign this request shall request a roll-call vote on Rule 9 and on the amendment number 80 and a special number 3/12-11-2019 of the draft law: ‘Prime amendments, Code of Criminal Procedure and related provisions’ of the Ministry of Justice. Applicants for Members’ immunity.’ And then the names of the applicant Members are set out. The vote will take place at approximately 10 a.m. to 10.30 p.m., colleagues. Mr Georgios Logiadis has the floor from Mera25 for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will personally make a different position today. I'm taking a chance to talk about traffic accidents. There are three levels of road accidents. The first level is education. Road education leads to road safety and is the basis for everything, but it has a disadvantage. Her benefits will come after many years and until then what do we do? The second level is the road network. We need to improve the infrastructures of our bad road network. The state, however, is in reinforced surveillance. That's what we call the Memorandum today. Until it is solved - as long as it can be solved - the problem of the BOAK, for example, in Crete, will be over many years and, until then, how many more victims will we mourn? That's the question. The third level is policing with strict measures, which can have immediate effect. There is, however, a great shortage of staff and material resources for the well-known economic reasons. I now come to appeal to the fourth highest level, and I address the Greeks' ambition, because in Crete we have a deadly first, which only proud of us does not. It's not possible and, indeed, we don't need to have behind every driver and a patrol car, a policeman. Ladies and gentlemen, the more a society needs, the more imperfect and more complex it is, but above all the written laws it is the unwritten law of the Greek, the Cretan friendly in this particular case. We must prove as people that we do not need the threat and the fear of laws and penalties. It was shocking to witness a traffic manager that the most difficult day of his life was when she had to go to a family that her two children were no longer in life. That he said he'd never get over it in his life. On 9-11-2019, we celebrated the thirty years since the fall of the Berlin Wall. One hundred and thirty-six dead we had these thirty years. On the road network of Crete in five years - not thirty - we had two hundred eighty-seven dead and most victims in Heraklion. This time we are again starting to produce rakis in Crete and all over Greece by subdivisions. There are disposable disposable alcohol tests. Use of a belt saves lives. Right tires and maintained cars, responsible attitudes of each of us. Please help each Greek, every Cretan individual with his attitude, so that we can be effective in reducing the wheels and proud to succeed. It's a battle, a war against our own evil self. Take care of the pedestrians and respect for our fellow humans who move with cars. We don't want to destroy the cameras on the streets. They protect all of us, each individual, our children, our brothers, our families. But let us also consider the social costs of permanent or temporary car accident victims. Think, indeed, of the possibility and braveness of being all organ donors. Even in this extremist situation, let us donate life to other fellow humans. I'll close by saying: Don't ask what your state is doing for you. Ask what you're doing for your state and your relatives. In Cretan with a word: Rise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Marcou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u382	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, just three and a half months ago a vision of flesh and bone was completed with the help of distinguished legal systems and caused the amendment of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure to be consistent, because it was necessary to rationalise and renew it in order to meet the needs of the modern social rule of law. The modification of the codes has been a product of long and productive processing, respecting the requirements of seriousness required for such an operation and taking into account the current conclusions of legal science. With this bill, Minister, it does not in fact promote an overall appeal to the fundamental characteristics of the new criminal policy. On the other hand, however, the basic principles that have been taken into account are under partial pressure, restoring the fragmented treatment of the criminal phenomenon, which, in other words, has come to restore the adoption of the new codes. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Minister, I have taken the floor for two reasons. One reason is because I feel as your colleague - and I mean as a colleague I have to take part in the legal events of this House, since you are a Minister of Justice. The second is to highlight two aspects, which is being put to the vote and something that is not being introduced, while it should be. I'm starting with the second one. One is socially beneficial work. The calls are referred to the lifting of the suspension of the institution of social work. Public work has been introduced in Greece in 1991, but it does not exist in the new provisions. This has not prevented you from predicting changes, making it, if suspension is lifted, unrealistic and extremely difficult to implement, if not inapplicable. Whether it's another bad law or what you're going to bring it back, so no one can tell what to expect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u383	We just said there's a period until we see where we can send people to serve the socially beneficial job and have a relevant mechanism...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u384	You're not listening, Minister. If you want, say it to the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u385	I've been analyzed. I've been through it this morning. Look at the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u386	To repeat it without wanting to twist it. He says that it takes a period of time until this process of social work is carried out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u387	Because with the new Criminal Code there is a wide range of offences, which has socially beneficial labour as a penalty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u388	Yes, well, I accept your assurance that this will be done. And let me ask. Will you do it? We'll see. In this sense, I am no longer tempting you in terms of public service work. Good faith I accept the assurances of the Minister. Let us now move on to the particular affection that you are showing to the crimes of the white collar, where you are turning the self-prosecuting offense of felonious infidelity into persecuted, even in pending cases. This is even more tragic. It is obvious in this case that each bank as a passive will avoid giving up or relinquishing in the future those who have damaged its interests when its own managers are themselves. I consider the arguments of the representative of KINAL to be in sin, that no employee will sign. Why should one be afraid of legitimacy? Thus, the interests of minority and customers, namely Greek citizens, will remain exposed. To no other European code, even those whose European law looks forward - German, Swiss and Austrian - there is no provision for fraud or infidelity by insulting persecuted crime, but only exceptionally to very small offences. The Association of Prosecutors of Greece highlights the risk of impunity and an international exhibition of the country, as I read it out, as dozens of cases that are at the stage of the preliminary investigation, but also in the hearing, are at risk of being thrown into the gallery of unpunished people as criminally unworthy and the country being exposed internationally as ineffective to prosecute serious crimes and, in particular, corruption and money laundering.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u389	I'll answer that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u390	Minister, if you'd like, speak to the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u391	It's already answered, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u392	So I am entitled to ask if, with the arrangements you bring, the criminal prosecution of thirty eight Piraeus Bank officials, even her former strong husband, should be lifted with regard to loans and infidelity. So you have to answer as long as you're ready. And more, if that happens, the accomplices, when the natural perpetrators will be relieved, how will they be prosecuted? Finally, I conclude by referring to the risky loans granted by the Post Office and the strong names of the economic and social life of Greece - Laurentiadis, Philippidis, Kontomenas - which are involved. You did not make it possible, by closing, to become a government and start where you stopped in 2015, with the continuation of relentless violations of justice, putting in the file with laws of major serious offences. And you won't convince us that this is all because you're gracious for poor persecutors. Just look forward to the strengthening of their power and you are looking to make the status you have been building for all these years, which is being done by fuelling the great interests of the Greek people who, from their stock every time, are recapitulating the banks and then another one, I suppose. Let's see you now, says the Soldier. Let's see you now. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Hellenic Chamber VENIZELOS and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 7th General High School of Patras (second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The debate is now held by Mr Constantine Javarra from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u394	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel obliged to begin my speech from the preliminary question of him as soon as he arrived from the step taken by my colleague, who appealed to the Minister of Justice for professional qualities. Of course, it is well known that doctors at their initial stage were medical doctors and the second, of course, is that in democracy, and in this Chamber, it is not science but politics. And that must be considered in your mind, and more so my friend, my dear colleague, Mr Spyros Lappas. Why am I saying that? Because, Mr. Colleague, we have today been called upon to manage a scientific conflict that has started from a long time ago, since for the first time through a book of Criminal Law signed: "The dialectical concept of legal goods" some new conditions have been created so that, in fact, through this perception of the legal good, a school of thought is organized which has been known and is still known to many still known as "School of the Criminal Law of Thessaloniki". So in 2006, in fact, the process of making a new Criminal Code with that committee, headed by the late Nikolaos Androullakis academic, a man of unknown value, literally a philosopher of criminal law and a teacher of many of us, whose memory must be eternal in this place. So this man began working on the new Criminal Code, to then replace this committee with the also relentless teacher of many of you from Thessaloniki, John Manoledakis. And, of course, when two scientific schools are fighting, that is very positive, because it leads to progress, what Hegel would say "scientific mind". It creates conditions for there to be successive moments, as it was said, progress and development. But we today have to reproduce and recycle well-known scientific disputes through a parliamentary reason. That is why those who listen to us do not understand us. And now to be more comprehensive and clearer. That, in fact, a man carrying a molotov bomb in his purse is not doing anything, it will certainly be completely compromised, in line with the theory of the late John Manodedakis, because that man of science had been limited to considering himself as a legitimate good, any object of the outer space has a material status. And, of course, in this sense, he had stripped it of every worthwhile burden, contrary to the other school in Athens, which said that in order for there to be an insult of a good law and to be such a criminal offence, so that the legislator, by the political method and option that he is entitled to bring it into a crime, should have this conduct insulted a worthy which is relevant to social coexistence and which must not necessarily be a material actor. In other words, the insulting of public ignorance by the distribution of pornographic material, and the insult of sulphur, as a value of intangible value, which plays a very important role in the course and orientation of societies, in specific purposes, can indeed be acceptable and legitimate and morally legitimate by the politicians responsible for legislating, criminal offences. As I have also seen, on the other hand, by listening to Mr Lappa saying that there is at last a number of issues that we cannot go every time and say that these Criminal Codes which went ahead with science and reached such a point that they are perfectly harmonious with today's data of liberal democracy, cannot be cast into the basket of unusable ones. No, of course, and no one says that. It is certain that the last committee, which dealt with the finalisation of this text, called the new Criminal Code, which, in my view, is neither a new code, but which, in any case, gave some solutions to some existing problems. However, it has strengthened political and social life with a number of problems, which this Minister of Justice has made, by undertaking today's Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the burden of bringing them here to this particular bill to discuss and vote for by the Greek Parliament. For this is the political choice of those who, at the will of the Greek people and in the correlation of the political force resulting from the elections of 7 July 2019, are legalised democratically, politically and morally to choose what is criminal and exactly as a criminal act to bring together the disapproval of society, because it is an unbearable example of anti-social behaviour. I could and would like to say more, but I want to be consistent in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u395	And we thank Mr. Javarra. My colleague, Evangelia Likaulis, from the Change Movement, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, an observer of our internal situation and the way in which we ultimately operate in our legislation and in the management of the current needs of the criminal system, understands from the outset that we are, Minister, a problematic case. If, in fact, he is very observant, he is literally rubbing his eyes as he realizes that the latest changes in the Criminal Code come just a few months later, the latter in July, and he really wonders whether the Greek Parliament can't reach an agreement on the elementaryities. That is our curse, ladies and gentlemen. It is the curse on serious issues, of particular importance, of particular importance, of great social interest and of a scientific need for modernisation, for which we could seek and reach cross-party consensus, we are constantly entangled in micro-political purposes, which start by considering some completely normal in the morning putting in the backpack together with our café and a molotov, as well as getting to the point where we have uniforms and law and order everywhere, without realizing, unfortunately, that neither one or the other is the solution. This logic divides us, ranks us into accusations, does not creatively unite us, does not make us effective, so that we only need in a few months to legislate from the beginning. Let us even think for a moment - it is worth the effort to devote this time from my speech - whether methodically, truthfully, and organisedly, we were given the opportunity without elections, without tinyness and without instant legal or real needs, if we had to legislate, how beautiful that would be and what we would achieve. Surely something serious and definitive instead of what we have now. To go through some remarks very soon. Ladies and gentlemen, we criminals have continued to say no more than a long time ago that another thing is justice and another thing is punishment. We know that well. It is an inappropriate principle, which should also govern the provisions of our Criminal Code and our minds when we legislate. We, the Change Movement, have really proved what we mean when we say justice and what we mean when we say punishment. We were the ones who started the reform and modernisation of criminal law, the PASOK government of 2010, which set up committees drafting the new Criminal Code, designed and launched a legislative process in clearly progressive and radical directions. So we have the legal but also the moral stature to speak today. We don't move the finger, but we can speak with a stand-by. Unfortunately, however, I am very sorry to note, Mr Minister, that the Criminal Code, once again, has become a field for small-party pursuits and regularizations. You're sweating ears. You have to admit it. It's a special audience, which you want to have with you. I feel like you're feeling an insecurity that you've lost it and you want to bring it back to you again. But the judicial procedure is not a game of impression. The "law and order" is something that can only temporarily benefit you. But it cannot reconcile you with society itself. You are bringing to the fore a large number of amended provisions in the Criminal Code with a blackmailing and inefficient way, for example, having a bill of law only 10 articles which changes dozens of articles and which, as our parliamentary representative and the rapporteur have told you, we cannot vote on. You do not accept to separate them. Does that make sense? Is that right? Is he legally standing? And anyway, why are you doing this? You mustn't come to this microphone and explain it to us, Minister, why are you doing this? I can't understand it. Citizens can't understand it. Do you think that's how you're going to blackmail us, vote for the provisions that we have to vote on and are correct? Well, we won't suffer this blackmail. These methods do not honor anyone, and they also do not honor attitudes such as the entire debate on blasphemy. What can I say now? It's blasphemy and talk about blasphemy. So you bring anachronistic discussions and then say: 'We do not bring them, we do not have them, we do not have them, we do not bring the provisions, we take them back'. But even the fact that this debate has taken place is wrong. It's the wrong logic. Takes us back, doesn't take us forward. Of course, I should like to say two words about the extremely problematic provisions. What does it mean are we not ready to talk about the possibility of a penalty being imposed by means of public works? Why aren't we ready? Aren't we mature? Why aren't we ready to talk about all the matter? Let's go back and we're actually canceling a hard-winded liberal legal conquest? Why aren't you ready to discuss this? So many months have passed and you tell us and you refer it back to the future? We cannot accept that. We are a country that, with its sword, many decades ago, won the privilege of belonging to the democracy club, we fought for it and it is not possible now to escape. Training your audiences if you want to be effective. Don't kneel on people's appetites. Politics is a dynamic process, Minister, it is at the same time culture and produces education. So train audiences, because there are always the little, but there are always the great. You'll choose who you'll be among. Finally, I want to make a brief reference to the notorious 390, which you have again made today an interpretative legislative change. In fact, nothing. You did not give a way out, you did not accept an amendment that has logic again, you did not find the measure of consensus and of the cross-party perception of the matter. You often show that some things are said in a pompous way and with verbalism. You have clearly said your position for both molotovs and all that. You don't have to take a walk around here, though. Stop the political spaghetti. We know very well when it was a felony. And it is now. You do not "collapse in Athens" then. You often show that you insist on a logic of the worship of children's heroes and imitate Batman and Robocco, while you are no longer pure children, but you do not address children. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to be serious and big in the big ones. It is not appropriate, it is not appropriate either to relax it or to make it more conservative depending on which side you are classed on. We always insist positively on positive measures and always critical of what we need to rationalise. With cooperation in neutral non-electional and critical time around the same table, wonderful things could be produced. With these thoughts, Mr President, I am finishing and expressing - because you are currently coming to meetings with the legal world - at the same time, Mr Minister, one wish: The Criminal Codes are the first consumables of our offices. The first thing we've changed in recent years is that we've become the Penal Codes. That doesn't honor us. I believe that it offends the prestige, credibility and democracy. Stabilize the criminal system, invite all parties to discuss it to be serious. Occupations we've already taken, we don't have to renegotiate them into negotiation and discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u397	The Houseary Representative of Merra25, Mr Fotini Bakada, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the main points we consider to be problematic in the draft legislation under discussion have already been analysed and presented in detail by both our party's rapporteur and our two speakers. I'll just stand on some of them. First of all, we consider that this bill is about to shape the legal framework in the doctrine of "law and order", which the government expects to make. A characteristic example is the creation of an extremely strict framework in terms of participation in a terrorist organisation, even establishing penalties for travel abroad suspects of terrorism. At the same time there are prison sentences of at least three years but also of money for anyone alleged to have given instructions, information, financial support or to have recruited or trained members, facilitating the development of criminal organisation activities in his knowledge. If, however, the parents of a young man living in the province make one or more bank statements on their child's behalf, as many parents do today, and the child suddenly finds himself suspected of terrorist activity, who can ensure that these people do not end up indictees for doing so, that is, helping their child? At the same time, it raises by five years the years of detention for polyisoviers and attempts to criminalise and punish participation in protests in public services and in AKOs, providing for prisons of up to three years for offenders. In addition, he does everything he can to facilitate local oligarchy in two main ways: first, by criminalising up to and including the presence in places where auctions are taking place, depriving the citizens of the right to react, and by relaxing the framework of bank infidelity, avoiding touching and finally punishing all those who, with the sea-lovings they gave, caused damages that they had to cover - as they eventually covered - the Greek people with the successive recapitalisations of the banks. However, judging by the images we are seeing around us, ladies and gentlemen, we are not surprised by all this strictness which, as I said before, aims to put the legislative package on the suppression and authoritarianism that has begun to surround us. For from what else, if not authoritarianism, the images are characterized two days ago in ASEAN, where two hundred students were kept locked in the yard by powerful police forces and attacked with countless tear gas and chemicals, flare grenades, shields and clobs were there trapped like mice on the face, unable to come out, even when they asked for it. And what was their crime? That they thought their school wasn't supposed to be closed until the polytechnic anniversary. They reacted, in other words, to the Lock out decided by the institution's consortium, a decision that was condemned, among other things, by the Senate of the National Technical University. And for them they had to stay there and be afraid, and not even the wounded were allowed to leave so that they could go to the hospital. A few days before this Parliament, we again had incidents and the physical integrity of a thousand five hundred children who were demonstrating peacefully against the abolition of asylum was compromised. A young nineteen years old, all he wanted, ladies and gentlemen, was to protest against legislation limiting his rights. Even yesterday near the Acropolis fellow citizens came to us under the pretext of verifying evidence, because they wanted to conduct a protest show against the further sale of the port at 'COSCO' on the occasion of the Chinese President's visit to the Acropolis Museum. People were held three hours until the verification was completed, while they were offered without even starting the show they wanted to do, just because they had the intention. But today, a few hours ago, in Keratsini, we had the production of two of our fellow citizens, members of the TEK, who were stuck with posters for the Polytechnic. And I wonder, ladies and gentlemen: As long as we are going to become silent images witnesses that are happening in 2019, but refer to other dark times, which I think none of us want to live again, images that not only condemn the government but come to legalize with a climax the statements of the Minister for Rural Development earlier today, Mr Voridis, that "the wood is an element of forcedness". I know, I'm sure a lot of people are going to say the same thing about Mera25 again, and the balls are, again, in favour of the class disruption. But let me show you it's not like that. We believe that a country which does not take care of its future, which is the new generation, and which tramples so easily with the fight and the blood of citizens, such as the right to protest, is not on the right track. On the contrary, a country that cares about its inhabitants and provides proper conditions for their development - personal and overall - does not need such a strict penal code, it does not need to avenge but to safeguard offenders. However, this draft law also contains points that we consider to be positive. Firstly, we have the conversion into a felony of bribery, as well as the broadening of the political people who can prosecute them for bribery so that they can now include both state-of-the-art and local rulers. In addition, we have the strictness of the penal framework for anyone arrested to drive with alcohol or drugs or drives dangerous or takes part in improvised speed races, changes that we welcome, especially for our country, which, unfortunately, laments every day people who lose their lives in traffic accidents and who often see images of police operations in places in Athens where illegal and improvised struggles take place. At this point I would like to make a brief reference to how we, as Mera25, see justice. Part of our electoral programme is the restriction of the over-criminalisation of simple crimes as a means of state repression and the abuse of crimes of deceit, as well as the radical reform of the penitentiary system, as well as the extension and implementation of alternative detention and punishment measures. At the same time, we are proposing the complete cut-off of justice by the executive. So, even in the area of justice, we also have an extension of the institution of DISCIPs of the co-legislators and elected citizens, which we are proposing for other areas such as education and culture. For this DENMARK, that of justice, our proposal is to number ninety members of which 1/3 will be deputies, 1/3 judiciary officials and 1/3 elected representatives of parliamentary parties. This body will regulate matters in this area even the judicial system. We have full democratic control in this way and we are broadening the involvement and activation of citizens. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that if we were not here now, but somewhere outside the plenary session, we would be discussing how each of us perceived justice, it would be difficult for one view to be the same as another. That is why the concept of justice has dealt with many philosophers, from Plato and Aristotle to Cad, Hobbs, Fichtes and others. They all gave their own description of it. Plato was the virtue, for Aristotle the mediation, for Cand's indictment order. Since such a debate still does not lead to a mutually acceptable outcome, perhaps we should agree, even temporarily, with a thought by Hans Kelsen, one of the most important representatives of legal thematicism that in his book "What is justice?", he notes that if we can learn from the spiritual experience of the past, that is that human reason cannot only capture relevant values and that means that the crisis with which something is declared fair can never rule out the possibility of a contrary assessment crisis. Absolute justice is an irrational ideal. However, the fact that absolute justice can be an irrational, perhaps romantic ideal, could in no way impose the wrong eyes on flagrant injustices. Today's bill of law with the changes to the Criminal Code, introduced by the Ministry of Justice, finds such injustices. Therefore, as a PART25, we will vote against the bill at first, which most of which is trespassing over rights, closing the eye to authoritarianism and looking after the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mrs Bakadima too. Mr Angelos Tsigris has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important bill and, indeed, we are discussing it shortly after the Penal Code was passed from the previous House. What's the point? The reason is that something had to change. There are failures that need to be improved, but the main, basic, humanitarian, democratic and basically liberal orientation of our criminal law has remained, as has been shaped in Greece since 1950. Greece remains a liberal, democratic country, the rule of law and the state of security, which must respond first and foremost to the public about the legal sense of the entire Greek society. Finally, the political class in the country must listen to and identify with public opinion, disguise the demands of Greek society. I feel, and in public, the need to thank the Minister of Justice, who has responded directly to my request to tighten up penalties for crimes very seriously at risk not only of sexual freedom but of the total existence of the individual. They are not addressed to the sexual sphere of the child, the teenager or the adult but to the whole of his personality. A rape victim doesn't rape his sexual freedom. He's raped all his personality. It is about canceling the human word in the choice of a love partner. Imagine a child growing up with the dreams of his father and mother for the princess of the fairy tale who will come to get it, who suddenly faces a criminal - a rapist who plunges his soul and body and leaves it dead forever. That is what forensics and all the research results say, and therefore only congratulations must be given to the government's legislative initiative. I come from, and represent an area recently dressed in black, because my fellow citizens felt severe grief for the child who was lost, for the one-year-old child and for his sixty-seven-year-old grandmother in Kamares, Agialia. We have to ask ourselves: did something have to change about road safety? If yes, what does it have to change? First of all, our education, first of all, is to be careful when we take the wheel, first of all to know that at that time they risk human lives if we are not careful. This comes to restore the Criminal Code because our criminal law, which should not only function repressively and preventively but also educationally. It must educate the public that the law must be implemented, and in some cases it must be strict in particular when crime creates serious social diseases. But beyond that, who will argue that we ourselves must decide that bribery of politicians is not only criminally flattered, but also repulsive, and whoever cannot avoid it, because it is prone to law and give him the message that this state is banning it and punishing it with the strictest penalties? The severe punishment of the bribery of politicians, therefore, must first and foremost become reflexive to politicians and to the entire Greek society. We have recently voted for our new legislative arsenal on asylum, dealing with the problem of illegal immigration and refugee. Who, then, will disagree that modern slaves, migrant traffickers, traffickers of these afflicted, impoverished fellow people, who are trying to find refuge and are being exploited by the worst slave circles around the globe that they must and will be severely punished? The new Criminal Code responds to the legal sense of Greek society, corrects mistakes and uncertainties which I do not believe were made with intent but were made by a tendency to elasticise penalties. We don't have a bad intention. We are simply convinced that criminal law, in addition to its repressive and preventive dimension, must have as its objective and the education of society in what is right and what is wrong, criminal law is the strongest weapon not only of state repression, according to one view, but the most powerful weapon of social defence of the rule of law and must not be elastic or strict. It must be fair. That is what the Greeks and Greek women are asking for, that is what we give them today, if the Greek Parliament's vote passes this bill. I am absolutely sure that it will bring relief to the family who lost her baby in Kamares, Aegialia, to millions of parents who fear the safety and physical integrity of their children and, of course, with all the Greek society that wants the establishment of a rule of law, security, humanity, cohesion and solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u401	The speaker of SYRIZA, Sultana Eleftheriadou, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u402	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy was electorally saying that it would rip off the codes that SYRIZA voted on. He said that SYRIZA was treated favourably in penalties and liberties with a more characteristic case of the release of the SYRIZA businessman, who was accidentally released immediately after the elections, for example, not to mention the revision of the Criminal Codes. But today you are changing nothing with today's review. In particular, there is nothing to change on the issue of redundancies under conditions condemned for serious offences, as well as the decongestive laws that you have systematically and deliberately conceived. So together with the refugee, the Prespecies Agreement, and so much more you are doing today another cubicness on the issue of codes. You also take down this election flag against SYRIZA. We are, of course, satisfied with that, as it is accepted that the vote on the codes that SYRIZA carried out and voted on its own on 1-7-2019 is correct on the substance, and the only criticism made by New Democracy is on the ground, as if the government had to stop its work because it was a pre-election period. In the process, of course, the New Democracy should not speak because during the only four months in which it is governed, any parliamentary rule relating to the voting procedure for bills has been violated. Let us remind you, of course, that SYRIZA has brought the text of the Legislative Committee to a vote, even though we might disagree on some issues. We have respected the scientific work and the result of the supra-party legislative committee. What are you doing now? You left the same committee with some additions to your plans and purposes. Your aim, of course, is not to correct problematic provisions of the codes adopted by SYRIZA. You change for distraction some of them without even being tested in practice, to satisfy your conservative voters and election reports about the allegedly inadequacy of the SYRIZA codes to achieve the doctrine of "law and order". Something had to be changed, and you simply do it, completely unwittingly, and without any grounds and any thoughts on the legal issues, legal contradictions and difficulties in implementing it in practice. The real reason you brought this bill is not to run the possession of molotov into a felony, to face terrorist acts or to tighten the penalty for theft when the burglary is committed by two or more people. The legal failures of the arrangements mentioned above have been clearly highlighted by all the opposition parties in the discussions of the committee responsible. The real reasons we are here today are two regulations. Protecting those who have committed or will commit infidelity against the Greek people and releasing the properties of mainly businessmen whose properties the Dumping Authority has committed. A hundred bankers are currently being persecuted for NW and PASOK loans. They have been lost with interest of 1,8 billion euros and are paid indirectly by the Greek people. And what are you doing today? After the vote on this bill wherever there is open criminal proceedings, findings and records, the only way to examine them is to indict the prosecutors who are newly appointed by you, otherwise the perpetrators will be acquitted and the cases will be filed. After the vote on this bill, the criminal prosecution of all bankers in relation to the "sea-tree" that the Greek people finally paid and continues to pay with the recapitalisations of the banks is cancelled. After the vote the criminal prosecution of the prominent representatives of the political staff of the country has been cancelled has led to the budget deflection. After the vote they get amnesty all the financial scandals. What urges the government to legislate like this? What cases pending in justice do these arrangements concern? And the only argument I have heard since the morning is that the arrangement will help to restructure the loans of Greek households and small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is allegedly feared that bank and bank officials will sign loans to them. And I ask: are you assured by the banks that if this arrangement goes through, they will open up the canal of restructuring and lending? Have you agreed to that? If you're gonna tell us, because that's what we want. If you do not stop invoking that the purpose of the arrangement is that, because it is simply not going to happen, otherwise you would not criminalize the protest before the auction organs in Articles 168 and 169. There is no connection between regulation and the overdue family and small and medium-sized businessmen. These are only mass auctions since January. You release indictment property for serious crimes that have been frozen by a prosecutor's order, because they are a criminal product. Release them if they are committed for more than eighteen months. In other words, after eighteen months, they should be returned to their holders, regardless of whether they are facing malicious persecution or not. The posting of crime products by the public will be permanently cancelled as soon as the provision is implemented. The property of suspected serious crime suspects will be attributed to the years before, and the perpetrators of serious economic crime will be favoured. The proposed time limit for the application of the provisions of the principle other than unavoidable shall also be legally incompatible with the constitutional principle of proportionality. And that is what all the lawyers in the Chamber know about, or at least those of us who have conducted a fighting law, and of course you are absolutely not interested in the protest of the Union of Prosecutors, the protest by the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority by Criminal Actions and the report by the Financial Action Group, the international authority responsible for dealing with the rules on money laundering, which condemned the regulation. The law, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, must indeed reflect the feelings of the public, equilibrium with the rightful feeling of citizens. Do you think the citizens want to stay unpunished all the scandals and all the economic criminals responsible for the country's budgetary slogan? Do you believe that citizens want all the critical cases of infidelity, bribery and dirty money to be thrown into the air, even if it is a step before the court judgments? We're sure not. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] And one last thing. Mr. Lazaridis, my constituent elected in Kavala, said in his speech and referred to a statement by the President of SYRIZA in 2011, two days before the parade of Thessaloniki, deliberately isolating a piece and wanting to show unsuccessfully that SYRIZA covered the violence in the first years of the antimony. He forgot to refer to the recent criminal conviction in three months' imprisonment of a leading executive and staff of his friend in Kavala for the crime of provocation in committing crimes. What did his personal friend say? "Let's stack the stores and the cars of the left to go and break them, see how much fraud the bag has. Attack against will now.' Mr. Lazaridis referred to a statement by Mr. Tsipras in 2011. Why does it not refer to this statement, which has been made on the basis of the Ambassadors' agreement, in which your Government has, of course, again made cybism? It turns out who's causing violence and who's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u403	The speaker of SYRIZA, Alexandros Aylonite, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague Sultan Eleftheriades put the matter in the heart. And I wonder what to say. But I will also say, because there is so much a man can say, a Member of Parliament. But I will begin, Minister, and to those ministers who are here, what in Corfu - I am a member of Corfu - there were floods yesterday, intense rainfall, many problems. I would ask you to transfer to your government the need to help my place. I open the TV and every Greek opens the TV days now, molotov, blasphemy a couple of days and bolted policemen in ASEAN. Is this a picture of a rule of law? Is it a picture of the Member, Mr Markopoulos, who said briefly, Mr Minister, that today you have brought to Parliament to vote for a new Criminal Code? I am a lawyer and those who are lawyers are aware of the importance of a codified law, the Criminal Code, which is essentially the philosophy, the suppression of scientific knowledge, social experience, legal experiences, case law. What are you doing? You're bringing in some provisions. You did well. That's your right. You're a majority. But not that you will also vote for a new Criminal Code. In short, I would expect you to codify the Justinian Code in a short time, the laws of Drakon, Magna Carta. I am sorry that through these phrases I seem to be joking, but I would like to show today, after four months of operation of a piece of legislation such as the Criminal Code, which you all said is the result of a 10-year scientific effort, in a scientific committee of a cross-party nature, a major scientific spirit that had the political courage to vote on. Why don't you admit it? Why do you not admit, Minister, that Law 1608/1950 was abolished? Why don't you tell the Greek people in your capacity as a very big achievement? We were fifty-sixty years back. Why don't you say it? Is it bad to say it? Was all this law passed as an article in the summer of 2019 bad? Maybe he needed supplements. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u405	I guess you didn't hear any of what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u406	I say what I mean. And you come to the greatest, in my view, an offence against the public, infidelity, along with misappropriation against the public, fraud against the public, and what are you doing? Look at my fellowships and tell me if you disagree. In order to initiate the criminal prosecution, even if the prosecutor has taken it up against a bank officer, a management officer, the administration of a bank, the prosecutor will have to wait for the indictment from the administration to initiate the procedure for the act or omission he has damaged without any sum of money. You've left it completely free. Even two or five billion to harm the administration, you ask that it be voted on by the Greek Parliament that this offence should be persecuted. And I'm the lawyer who's thirty years in the criminal courts to accept it, and if I wasn't at SYRIZA, I'd be anywhere else. Is it possible to ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u407	You know you did it. You know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u408	Excuse me, don't interrupt me. Put in a balance the offence of blasphemy persecuted on its own initiative and the offence of infidelity against banks, banking institutions and credit institutions. You filled it out today. Put them on the scale. Excuse me, but what do banks manage? Only money of their own? What has been suffered by the Greek people for eight nine nineteen years has been a private matter or is it about the pocket of any Greek citizen, even of the state itself who is paying through the banks? It uses the state itself to use the banks. You do not know - perhaps you do not know - that the rule in Criminal Law is that the felonies are being persecuted automatically, except for exceptions, how much more is this crime, the most dishonest one? A lot has been said about this. The former Prime Minister has also tabled a timely question. But I'm very concerned about why our intelligence is underestimating. The offense of blasphemy is neither bad nor good. It is as everyone sees in philosophical terms the whole thing. I wouldn't have burned you so much if you voted for it today. You took it back and notice, Minister, what you say to get it back: "We consider it government that it should be voted on. However, we do not want the substance to be lost and once there are so many reactions, this provision will be withdrawn. Whether you're too democratic as a human and a government, but too democratic, or something else is happening. Is that the political cost? So the religious conscience you want to defend where you put it? Why don't you defend her? Why didn't you come to vote today?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u409	Are you in favour?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u410	So, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u411	Say you're not in favor and leave these.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u412	No, no. Wrong. I am trying to understand how you act and how you legislate the famous new Criminal Code, which your colleague said earlier. Is this a law that you're judging all of us before that we've done a bad piece of legislation? I'm finishing up and I'm saying this. Maybe what I'm saying is rheumatoid and maybe pompous. I say it in this sense. Does the administration of a bank called upon within four months by the law to make the statement on the continuation of infidelity offences and does not do so commit the offence of infidelity? He's doing it. The New Democracy MPs who will vote to prosecute the crime of infidelity, tell me, are they committing a crime? That's how I close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u413	The speaker of the New Democrat Republic has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u414	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to discuss a number of provisions that should normally be agreed with us all. So who can't agree that the polyisovit should not be free in a few years? I mean, the one who committed a series of crimes, which, on his own, each brings the sentence of life imprisonment, cannot be free in a few years. Who can argue that rapists should be punished exemplarily, even with life imprisonment where necessary? Who can not agree that the civil servant arrested to commit active bribery must be punished exemplarily? In other words, the one who is arrested to take advantage of his position in the public sector, in order to seek victims of Greek citizens to get rid of them, must be punished exemplarily. Who can not agree that the convicted person whose state permits him a few days to go home, and he exploits it in order to commit new crimes, should be punished exemplarily? Who can disagree with all this? Who? SYRIZA. All these provisions that we are today legislating and tightening up the penalties are provisions for which the SYRIZA has minimized its penalties in previous governance. It's Friday's law. They are the laws that amend the Law of Friday. So SYRIZA doesn't agree with all that. Now, not only do we not agree on what is the basics, but we cannot agree on what is actually elementary. Let's start over. The fact that SYRIZA caresss and protects all the rubico-rubbins - coffentines we know, is well known. What should we want to do first? The Law of Friday, the law of service of anarchists in Exarchia? Do you know that, Mr. Tsigris, it worked until 7 July to the anarchists in Exarchia? So, a kiosk set up by the anarchists and then the young man went, they told him how he'd have to develop action, how he'd make the molotov, how he'd throw it away. And that's what the Greek police asked to remove it and forbid it from the political leadership at the time. The anarchists' knob in Exarchia! Remember what? Mr. Voutsi ordering a trip for the Ruviks activists, why else would they have trouble going on a bike toward their home? Remember what? Should we remember the talks, which have never been disproved, by Mr Lambros with the Firearms, which together reconciled the country's anti-crime policy? Should we finally remember Mr. Koufantina slapping where he was killing? Remember what? So no one can say that he was amazed at these last positions. But, in fact, these last posts of Officer Response officers were unprecedented. They even surprised me. And I wondered how I should deal with it, that is, how can I deal with Mr. Lappa when he wonders what a young man is doing that's bad for carrying a bomb in his bag? How can I deal with Mr. Janakopoulou, who also wonders what he's done to him, why did we make it a whole question of finding a bomb-producer in the university? Since there was no kalashnikov, there was no problem. How can I deal with Mr. Marcus, who says that well students destroy public property when they do not agree with the decision of their university congress? How, in other words, can I confront and argue against absolute insanity? You'll have to ask yourself. Do they really believe what they say or say for voting purposes only? The answer is that if they do so for voting purposes only, then they are politically foolish. Because even if it ensures a minimum ballo-anarchists vote, they will lose society as a whole and lose society as a whole. But if they do, because they really do what they say, they are really dangerous, because we come to the point of revealing that they ruled the country for four and a half years people who believe that the defendant has the right to carry a molotov in his purse. We were governed for four and a half years by people who believe that when the students do not agree with the professor’s decision, they have the right to make it all pond. I thank God and the Greek voter mainly for not giving SYRIZA another four years, because I very much fear that at the end of the four-year period these gentlemen would have destroyed all democratic institutions in the country. However, for their bad luck and for the good of the country the Greek voter decided otherwise and gave the order to us. And we, ladies and gentlemen, will safeguard the Constitution and the laws. We will preserve our democratic civilisation. We will give the citizen what he is entitled to. Feeling security for him and his family and free universities for our children. We started by ensuring the university asylum of ideas, ending with the asylum of violence and lawlessness. We are continuing today with provisions that only do not like balls and sieges. The fact that they do not like biscuits and symptoms in their own way proves that they are in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, however much you are trying to reverse Greece has turned a page from that of division and regression into that of unity and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, too. The President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the law, order, order, order, say, gentlemen of the Couple, that this is what is called, your motive, your objective. Let us see whether the articles of your bill are in line with this noble goal, and let us even display them out there on the screen of reality that you are shaping through your actions as rulers. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start somewhere I think we agree. In a favoured fair country, violence is unacceptable. The lawlessness is unauthorized. But in a country that governs lawlessness and the most parasitic oligarchy, unfortunately violence is inevitable. We as a PART25 reject violence and lawlessness clearly. We reject it because as Gandhi once said, as we all remember, even when violence shows to bring something good, this good is temporary, and the evil that it brings is permanent. Same for lawlessness in general. We condemn all forms of violence, all forms of lawlessness. We strongly condemn the worst form of violence, poverty and the condemnation of living unreasonably. A situation, a way of life that in our country, in the debt-growth of "Greece", has unfortunately been imposed on many of the very few. Let's try and imagine for a moment what things would have been like. Imagineing an enemy of social peace who is striving to cultivate in our country the division, the sense of injustice that brings anger, this archangel - the prophesying of violence. What would he do if he really wanted to cultivate this trissathlon the violence and the lawlessness in the country? Let me give you some examples. I'm letting my fantasy work. This country would go ahead with a series of regulations, where a poor winterer from the people's crisis would give EUR 51 billion, which would be borrowed by other European taxpayers to specific bankers. The same bankers who threw their banks out a few months ago. It would give them another EUR 55 billion in ious guaranteed by the Greek State. It would at the same time enable them to have their own shares and not the shares of the government that were taken over by these fifty billion votes, and would finally give them immunity, as your bill does, Minister. And it would also give it immunity - because someone who always wants to sow discord to a people, adds the sense of humiliation to the injustice it introduces - but would put this amendment into a very correct article otherwise in the bill to tighten the sentence of the rapists. That would do if he wanted to humiliate a people and humiliate our concept of favoured society. At the same time he would legislate that if someone protested in an auction at PPC's offices to cut off an account, for example a neighbor who has not to pay by sharing a few haircuts, he would legislate that this protester could go to prison for up to three years. He would introduce a special feature in the notices that are made of the auctions, while the red loans of the Greek people are sold to the predators for 7% of their value, so that at the same time the capitalisation of the travellers is also undermined, when you actually give the possibility as a Greek state to specific funds from Delaware and New Jersey to earn great global profit rates, taking advantage of people who lose their homes and shops. That's what someone would do if he wanted to sow the sense of anger that gives birth to lawlessness and violence. He'd do some graphics too. For example, carrying a kalashnikov in your car's trunk is a flood while carrying a bottle of gasoline and a bottle of beer is a felony. At least make the possession of a well-intentioned felony, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u417	I hear that with interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u418	Moreover, someone who really wanted to sow division in this country would use the Step of the House, a parliament that has been humiliated in the last ten years of slavery, to teach the citizens that we supposedly discipline them as to what "fair society" means by stricting a Criminal Code, whose main problem was not that it was not strict, was that it was never implemented. We do not, of course, have to imagine that, because this is what is happening today. Unfortunately, this bill is happening, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days we have seen lawlessness dominating this country. We see the lawlessness entering a new vortex. We see it progress in ways that we should all condemn. The other day, the President of China was here in Piraeus. I'll talk to you about a specific incident. The Head of Mera25 for the "green" transition with two to three members of the Mera25 were there to protest peacefully. We can assure you, Minister, that these are particularly peaceful members of the Mera25. Before they could even open the banner, they were arrested and brought to the Acropolis Department. We are learning from the means of attacking the Security Corps at a entertainment centre, where the children in it, young people, have been forced for an entire hour to be fertilized, with their hands up, supposedly to check evidence and to be searched. How are you, ladies and gentlemen of the government? Are you turning our youths against our youths? Because the police are our young men, too. Do you introduce a sense of law and order through the creation of such a civil war climate? Let's take S.H.I.E.L.D. I heard my colleague before. Because I happen to be a university, and because it happens - and I have mentioned it from this Step of the House - to have lived through what it means to incur extra-school theatres in law, I have experienced the agony of my students, our students, Minister, to continue teaching, to keep the university open and not to be subjected to the closed university that the university's enemies want, whether they are extra-school anarchists - let us tell them as you like - whether they are traders, who want their colleges to acquire the booby of the state for their degrees, the enemies of the university are a little - much the only way to secure the university, to keep it open. The Senate closed the A.S.O.C.E. because a yaphka was discovered. The ASAOE and no university should never be closed. You have as a state, the Senate has as head of the university the means to clean up the university from these yachts. The closure, however, of universities, and in particular a few weeks before the anniversary of 17 November, is a violation of basic principles of logic and a huge defeat of the open university, which you are saying is an embassy. And what did the kids do? An executive of the youth of Mera25 was there. We know very well what they did. They entered the OSCE to demand the right to open university and to learn and are against great power of the MATs, who were whistling with tear gas - they didn't even let them come out - these children, who were asking for the open university. It is a situation within the university, which your own government has created, which goes completely against and against what you are supposed to want and want, the open university, the protection of the asylum of the ideas of the course. When we were in the legal halls, with my first-year students, we fought to continue to teach lessons about the "bugs". You close the universities and put the MATs in, get the new uniforms to come in contrast, in conflict, in battle with the new children who ask for lessons. This was the situation in ASEAN and the children arrested - Sofia Sakorafa, who is here, was in the GDR and can confirm it to you - were children who detest violence, like all of us in the MEA25, we despise violence and we call for the end of the violence of all forms of violence both at universities and outside universities. Ladies and gentlemen, the question I have raised I shall put again in general. What exactly does this government do to our new children? What exactly does he do and what position does he place our policemen? What place do you put public officials in? I heard the Minister of Civil Protection the other day talking about some people who want a new Gregory. Minister, what disrespect is she toward the family of the dead young? Does the Minister for Civil Protection doubt that this was a murder, without reason, by a State institution and, at that time, by a State institution? Well done, Mr Chrysochide, excellent effort to maximize the possibility of violence, to strengthen anger, to create a more civil war climate! Do what you can to confirm what Mera25 says from the first day in the House. Firstly, Mr Chrysochoidis is inappropriate to be Minister for Civilian Protection. This is the fourth time I have mentioned it in Parliament's plenary session. A Minister who has done all he can to disperse the positive women, a Minister who speaks alone for young Gregoropoulos, does harm both to your Government and to the Greek Parliament and to the Greek state. Who will ultimately protect the citizen from the Minister for Civil Protection? It is like trying to confirm what we are saying at the outset about the efforts of the Prime Minister, a man who says liberal. We, who always accept the self-determination of people, what do we say? We say that your liberalism in so far as it serves a certain parasitic oligarchy of bankers, this - within introductory - 'liberalism' requires growing levels of authoritarianism. This is confirmed by Mr Chrysochide's words and, unfortunately, by many articles in your bill. Ladies and gentlemen, another zero tolerance to violence and another to provoke violence to exert violence by strengthening it in the name of the zero tolerance of violence. It used to be called provocation. I will return, in my last words, once again to the universities as an appeal to you, Minister, because I imagine and wish to believe that there is a bridge between us. Let peace develop itself in the universities. Let our university community find its balance, with the help of all of us, not the MATs in the yard throwing sparkle bombs and tear gas to students who require an open university. The locks at the university and the plaques of MATs within universities are not the solution, it is the one that speeds up violence and lawlessness. We, as Mera25, are placed. The university needs asylum care, well-trained. You don't need the police and the MATs. It's not good for the police, it's not good for the universities. You must be careful, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple. You tend to be the best friends of the "bugs". Nothing legalifies anyone who, as they wanted, wants to enter our schools and stop us from taking a lesson, from a minister who sends the MATs into universities, while outside the universities, near the ASEE - there are the offices of Mera25 - the neighborhoods are suffering, not from the lack of repression, but from the lack of any serious policing of real lawlessness on the streets of Athens. Having a locker in some buildings, with an MAT set outside, does not raise the sense of the security of our citizens, Minister. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, for every complex problem there is always an answer that is clear, simple and wrong. That's the answer you're giving us, the repression. It is a simple answer: 'We are no longer tolerated'. Suppression, the answer is clear. MAT in universities. And the answer's wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, the favored society does not arrive by rolling on its wheels unavoidable. It comes after constant struggles against oligarchic repression, which is the main source of violence and lawlessness in our country, which is the main source of violence and lawlessness in all the countries of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u419	The reason for seven minutes is SYRIZA MEP George Psychogios.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u420	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wanted to start differently. I was given by a previous colleague of the New Democracy. I am sure that the Greek society has gone a long way and colleagues have not understood what it wants and demandes from us not more repression or violence, but it requires from us a society that is democratic, open, modern, with rights and obligations for all, without discrimination. And he has demanded this in every way and at every opportunity. So do not invest in this because it goes beyond us all and we must be lifted to the extent of the circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, when we were discussing in this Chamber in June the new Criminal Code and the new Code of Criminal Procedure was a legislative text that had come as a crown of the chronic work of a legislature, which was present on that day, with all its executives, students and teachers, who welcomed and supported this initiative. Modernising the codes was a consistent demand of both judicial authorities and lawyers, as well as of society that was confronted with provisions from another era and another social and political reality. The whole picture of the penalty system was commonly unreasonable, falsifying and irrational, and the new Criminal Code corrected this situation. From that debate, which was left by the Members of the New Democracy and KINAL, a number of provisions were streamlined, improved the system of Criminal Law, implemented the general degression of penalties, as the more modern perspectives of the Council of Europe have been, while they have also concealed a basis of common trust for the legal world that is now breaking up and very soon too. Let me remind you of the Code of Criminal Procedure of strengthening the role of the prosecutor, strengthening the position of the defence attorney, the systeming of measures for minors with special treatment and the Criminal Code to increase the time for the limitation of offences against the public from 15 to twenty years with heavier penalties, the abolition of anachronistic provisions, such as the criminal offence of the strike of civil servants, and the deprivation of civil rights. Today, then, we are discussing the draft law: "Amendments to Criminal Code, Code of Criminal Procedure and related provisions", which includes reforms related to fundamentality, alter previous long-term work and come with unprecedented haste and carelessness. Ladies and gentlemen, many times we are dealing mainly with criminal law issues as purely legal issues. But it is also politically and socially, because it also depends on the historical context, but also on interactions and social reality. From this point of view, two are the main features of the New Democracy legislation: the existence of proliferational provisions and the disproportionate disproportionate rigour of penalties. The Government, as it did two weeks ago by the International Protection Act, attempts to generalise the provisions so that it can apply the restriction of freedom, in this case imprisonment, at longer intervals, especially in cases where there is no effective act but possible intention to act. And I'm starting with socially beneficial work. Despite the promises made by the Ministry of Justice that it would act quickly, Minister, three months have elapsed and the institution for the conversion of the sentence into a socially beneficial job that it has worked in the country since 1991 remains suspended and since it is not included in the provisions, we can assume that it will not be implemented already. We hope that you will disprove us in practice. Then invest in communication, impressions and work on codes. You are turning the possession of explosives into a felony when you are not even touching the weapon, even when it comes to firearms. Let us be clear, we do not welcome the casting of molotov. We also believe that such practices can weaken popular claims, as the movements say, in our own perceptions. However, we cannot accept such a tightening up which turns the possession of explosives into a felony when the possession of other dangerous means, such as an automatic weapon, is not treated as such and there is no proportionality. I'm going through infidelity. I will read from the "SYRICE OF KYRIAKIS" an extract from the former Minister and great teacher, who have been persecuted over the years, by Mr. Paraskevipoulou in relation to the question of infidelity: "Our legislation has so far escaped from the rule of the authoritarian, and provided a condition of indictment to prosecute in only two categories: when the alleged good is personal and when the act is not a felony, that is to say, particularly heavy. None of the two cases exist here. The bank will obviously refrain from resigning when the official has damaged its interests on the basis of an administrative order, on the basis of the interests of the majority of the shareholders and thus the interests of the minority and of the clients will be set out.’; It is therefore quite clear - and of course, after the public debate and the announcement by the Association of Prosecutors of Greece, which is about risk of impunity, about the risk of international exposure of the country and, having what our rapporteur has said, Article 65 of Law 4472/2017, which possibly covers inadequately, although there you could build on it and improve, the acts or omissions for arrangements, restructuring and loan management, and even when banks have been recapitalised so many times with the Greek people's money, that such provisions are unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, penalties must be of a deterrent nature, but always on the basis of the principle of proportionality. As long as penalties are disproportionate or relate to a possible intention to perform an act without it being established, fundamental principles of the rule of law and of equality will be violated and the mind punished. As we have said before, you are institutionalising a state - a punishment that is imprisoned not to consecrate, but to avenge it. You did the unsuccessful transfer of the anti-crime policy to the Ministry of Civil Protection, which in the previous bill you wanted to bring back after the absence of all these procedures and, of course, when the very good criticisms from the Torture Committee of the Council of Europe followed a penitentiary policy of the previous government that you do not continue. As Mrs Symiidou-Castanidou said, it is indeed the proportionality between the criminal offences threatened and crime in the country that is not in line with the European average and you must take it into account in order to degrade penalties. So the dilemma, security or freedom you put is platitude. Security cannot exist without freedom, and this is confirmed by international courts, such as the United States Superme Court, when it was called upon to decide on preventive abusive detention in the name of battle against terrorism and gave a negative opinion. I close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that only four months after the vote on the penal codes you come without seeing the application of these provisions, to satisfy a particular audience that goes to your right, to overthrow many of them and to put an old view of the country's criminal law. But in these circumstances, I wonder if you really remember what happened here in 2012-2014. There was an orgy of repression, which was condemned internationally, the country was humiliated by the seropositive women, by hunting witches in refugees and immigrants, by imprisonment for 500 euros, without any political result. So we can't move on. We say that society is ready, mature, wants democratic changes, deep areas, so that we do not go back to these times, and in any case do not use the part of the Criminal Codes and security to disorient from other serious issues, such as the refugee and very critical issues of topicality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u421	Mr Nicholas Manolakos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in each parliamentary term, dozens of bills and amendments have been tabled and voted. Especially in the years of the crisis, Greek MPs were asked to bear heavy weight to modernise their state and institutions in order to face distortions and sufferings of many years. Although numerous legislative interventions have so far taken place in a number of areas and have the effect of harmonising our country's legal arsenal with the requirements of European law, the OECD recommendations and the Memorandum Requirements and Obligations, yet the implementation of all these legislative changes in many respects is lamenting and stumbling up with the lack of the State's own ability to enforce the laws, since it has not yet, unfortunately, the tools to do so. This problem of non-implementation of laws comes to deal with this bill by giving a series of adopted bills with nominal and effective effect. Substantial power is that part that gives meaning and life to the law. In this context, the direction of this draft law is neither progressive nor conservative. It is essential and hardworking, since it aspires as a tool to help implement so many other laws, which, although voted upon, meet stumbling blocks in their implementation, thus becoming inactive. Ladies and gentlemen, as much investment bills as we can vote on, as much structural reforms as we do, attract investment under threat of terrorism and a special guerrilla town in the center of Athens or in capital attraction centres, there cannot be. Fighting terrorism with wishes cannot be done. This draft law contains specific provisions regulating the criminal treatment of those who use or manufacture explosives or train persons in the technique of explosives. The horrifying memories of Marfin's burning branch will remind us forever that those who take such action do not have and cannot have any ideological legitimacy and must be treated as suspicious criminals that perpetuate the legal order. Such acts are now a felony, in accordance with Article 272(2). The perpetrator involved in a number of violence, illegally invades foreign homes or property and owns explosives commits a felony and faces imprisonment for up to ten years. Article 168 gives the possibility of automatically intervening the prosecutor in the event of violence, without any need for the victim to be indicted. In this way, I believe that the scourge of tax evasion is also being tackled, which also cannot be dealt with with with wishes, but only with continuous and rigorous controls, when, in fact, their controls are aware that those who try to threaten or prejudice them will find themselves a coordinate state. Ladies and gentlemen, the instability of the sense of security on the streets, in the neighborhoods and in the shops, which is a key factor in achieving a healthy social and economic life, cannot be achieved with wishing wishes, cannot be achieved with polyisoviets, using beneficials to others, but harmful to society, provisions, scourges in the centre of the city, or applicants for their release, since they have served a little more than fifteen years in the penitentiary stores. The new bill provides, on the one hand, for stricter penalties for offences committed during prisoners' permits, and on the other hand, for polyisoviers to have the right to seek release if they have completed a real sentence of twenty-two years in prison. And, of course, with wishes, the hundreds of dead people we mourn every year in the asphalt. Certainly in the right direction are the provisions of the bill imposing up to life imprisonment for anyone who leads under the influence of alcohol or drugs and causes loss of life. Penalties such as those for traffickers of refugees and immigrants are also being severed, doubled and triple, and increased years of imprisonment. We therefore send a clear message of deterrence, we shield the country and we strengthen our national security. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close my speech in the hopes and the hope that the arrangements to be voted on will go through with the greatest possible majority, because they are arrangements that strengthen the good of public security, because they are arrangements that can be a lever for the development of the Greek economy and lead to social prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u423	The floor is for seven minutes, SYRIZA MEP Mr. Vassilis Kokalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the prestige of the political system and the general political staff has been fed, not unjustified. I think no one will argue that we must defend it and take all steps to restore it. One of these actions was also the Chief of Staff Responsibility for the interpretative statement in Article 86, according to which it would be clear once and for all that the offence of corruption for politicians is not recorded. I think no one really disagrees with that. However, the government's majority disagreed. The government, however, with this bill goes one step further. You will allow me in these few minutes to focus on the front of the bill, the flagship, for which we have tabled a roll-call vote, on malicious infidelity. If it has been observed, it has not been defended by the Communism. I have heard from the Minister, in defending this provision, saying: 'But you have committed fraud.' This is not a defence of a provision, which not only runs counter to the legislation of Greek and European, but also causes financial damage to thousands of fellow citizens, as I will try to prove in these few minutes. What are the reasons? We'll say it more simply so people can understand. The first reason is legal. The second reason is communication. What does the reasoning state, according to the law? You are asking us to vote that infidelity against the banking institution should be prosecuted, because it is a matter of attack on an individual legal asset. You will allow me, along with me, to disagree with the large number of universities dealing with legal science, because with the same logic and rape, an individual legal asset is offended. He's not being prosecuted. In the same logic as extortion, individual legal good is offended. However, it is not persecuted. In the same absurd logic and intent homicide, individual legal good offends life. However, it is not persecuted. It is an important criterion, but not the decisive criterion. The principle of non-enforcement is then violated. The European Convention on Human Rights reads: 'The perpetrator, who is unfaithful, must, within three months, insult himself'. Even if he wants it, it'll be illegal, because he'll self-indicate himself. It is therefore contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. Let us now say more simply why this provision is not simply contrary to European and Greek legislation, but also causes financial damage. The second reason was the communication. You said at the first sitting, which you left, but only one Member of Parliament heard him say: 'Why do you disagree, gentlemen of the counter-population? The purpose of this provision is to help our fellow citizens when their loans are cancelled.’ Correct me if I'm wrong. We want to protect the bank executives in the event of a partial or total cancellation of the loan. That sounds nice, but it's not true, and you abandoned it. What for? As already provided for in Law 4472/2017, non-criminal liability has been provided for in the event of the restructuring of loans. Let us just say it: those bankers who set up loans do not face criminal liability or civil liability as early as 2017. But you must explain why you are doing this. Minister, gentlemen of the Couple, what financial damage will be suffered by thousands of our fellow citizens? The fellow citizens who lost their homes and their property and those who are in court, do you know what they're facing from the banks? The dog's objection. They're told by the banks: "You had lewd when you got your loan, which is why you didn't deserve the favorable arrangement. You had lewd." Why do the weak consider them inferior to the bankers you write the deceit? Why do you paraphrase him and commemorate him for the bank executives, while the coward for the fellow citizen, who has reclaimed and is already claiming, exists? Why would the weak part of society take the heavy burden on him? Is that in line with the principle of equality? This also demonstrates the lack of social protection in your Government, because not just this particular provision directly violates both Greek and European legislation, but also violates the principle of equality. It leads thousands of fellow citizens to the courts, forcing them to lose their property in the absence of the dome when they received the loan and this deceit you are absolved for the bankers. Is that the social sign? Is that the return to normality? Probably a return to normality is, but to the regularity of interactivity, to the regularity of opacity and corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u425	Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA Mr Dimitrios Janakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u426	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think it is clear to all of us and to all of us that the government has been in an austerity of authoritarianism over the past few days. We had the previous events in ASAP, where the police prevented students with wood and chemicals from holding a general assembly and then attempted by the media to unify this with police findings on Sunday at this university, but there is also a "storm" of complaints of illegal violence and even brutal behaviour that touch the limits of torture by police officers in the last few days. One of these complaints was also made by a Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr Gregoriadis, his colleague Mera25 in relation to his daughter and an incident that occurred in Exarchia where his sixteen-year-old daughter was exalted by a police officer of MATs. So all this is indicative of an extreme situation, which I think the government is deliberately attempting to fuel. It is also a communication strategy that the government may consider to be capable of pulling out of its political deadlock on the refugee, because I think it is again to everyone and all that this strategy seeks to establish and retain the audiences on which the New Democracy has given rise to power. Because, for years, you have been sowing winds, today you are reaping storms and being in front of the contradictions and deadlocks of your opposition speech, your own extreme right-wing rhetoric over the past three years. This strategy has now taken off today with the unspeakable statement of the top minister of the government, Mr Voridis, who described wood as an element of the forcedness of the law. Mr Mitsotakis must take a direct and immediate position in relation to this unacceptable statement, and you, Mr Tsiara, as Minister of Justice, must take a direct view as to whether this statement reflects and reflects the liberal values that you swear to. It's a shame. It is a real shame to hear these things through the mouth of a minister or any citizen. With this very strategy you seek to feed with extremes, oppression, authoritarianism and the doctrine of the police state, these special audiences on which you supported your electoral influence and your rise to power. It is therefore clear that you have now been divorced as a party from political liberalism. And that in the name of a short-sighted strategy, which actually fuels and rekindles what it is in name only wants to fight. The biggest accident, however, is that in the communication and political strategy of tension, which you think will lead you out of your political deadlock, you are also in line with the debate on the Criminal Codes. Instead of respecting the importance of the matter as a party and as a government, instead of respecting the complex issues of anti-criminal policy and substantive weightings that must be reflected in criminal law, you are undermining it by means. But this has started for a long time. Election to remind you that the New Democracy loaded into the two codes - the new Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure - all the sufferings of Greek society. It was all the codes! Replace this motto that notorious "for everything is the fault of SYRIZA" of 2012-2015. In 2019 it was all the codes. What are you doing here today? On the substance, you accept that in June and July you have fooled the world because you are maintaining the basic body of this reform, which you have so savagely taken for two months with only a view to satisfying political pursuits and political strategies. You do, however, despite the fact that you maintain this log, this general concept and direction of this criminal reform, unacceptable interventions in two directions. One direction serves the other. Firstly, you choose specific points that can satisfy this political strategy and this attempt to drown in fear of Greek society. I have heard from all the Members of this House since this morning about this most critical legal text, the penal codes, talk about terrorists, about molotovs, about armed organisations and indeed about the attempt to identify SYRIZA with all that. You've done it before. In the period 2012-2015 it didn't work out for you. In fact, by reproducing unscrupulously non-documented papers which the Government has obviously shared with the Members of the Chamber to place en bloc and structured, they constantly repeat the same lie, that the SYRIZA rapporteur said that the occupation of molotov is not a crime. And Mr Lappas comes in, twice asks for the floor on staff, explains that this is not the case, that he never said such a thing, that he simply said that there can be no separation between the occupation of a molotov which will be considered as a felony and the possession of a weapon considered as a flood. For the sake of consistency and of the legal text, but also of the political reason that comes to support it, or you will say that the possession of a weapon is a felony or you will characterise both of the offences. I am not making an assessment of what should be the case here. But I say that, despite the fact that this clarification is made by the SYRIZA rapporteur, the Members of the House are insisting that they do not follow the parliamentary debate, but simply reproduce the guiding notes you have given them, repeat the same thing in their speeches. This does not create conditions for serious parliamentary debate. This is simply Parliament's work to turn it into a propaganda mechanism and I think that it does not honour the work that has been done to create these two top legal texts at this level. Contrary to what we really disagree. You want a criminal law that moves in the direction of the police state and authoritarianism. We want criminal law in the tradition of political liberalism. This is our main and crucial difference, which we must discuss on its basis and under the conditions that it is appropriate. But why are you doing all this? To cover, in my opinion, your basic political pursuit with this bill. Firstly, the provision of absolute - to the limits of immunity - immunity to bankers. It is clear that this communication strategy that you are following is nothing but a smokescreen to cover the basic provision you are introducing today to Parliament, Minister, which is only the indictment of fraud when it comes to banking. That's the target today. This is the central political aim. All the rest, I say again, is the smokescreen. So, with this stubborn provision to prosecute the infidelity, even the felony, where the victim and the victim are now identified, we have the following: it must be the bank officials themselves who commit the offence of infidelity that will forsake themselves for the offence. This is an absolute legal absurdity. The argument that you are making this move to facilitate the restructuring of red loans is not just a waste, is in your knowledge false. Look, if you really wanted to move in this direction, there were ways of legal and technicians to do this, which would not lead to pending cases of sea-fashionage, i.e. loans granted with a single "air" guarantee, in the file. They wouldn't lead the hundred bank officials persecuted for the loans of your own parties to the file. I am talking about maritime loans granted to New Democracy and PASOK amounting to EUR 400 million in the years of growth, 2000-2010. And we expect, Minister, to see what bankers will do for these maritime loans and for the hundred bank executives persecuted in the next three months. We'll be right here. We'll see. Are there going to be any calls for these sea-lovings or are they just going to be filed without a second debate? In my opinion, you should leave the prerogatives. Do not mock the world, do not mock Parliament, do not mock yourself. This provision is downright, scandalous and promotes immunity in the sensitive sector of banks. And please do not repeat the disrespect to the Greek people - not to us of Anti-Population or Parliament - a argument that banks are private companies and that they should be treated like all other private companies. If there are banks today, this is thanks to the money, pain and sweat of the Greek people. Therefore, treating them criminally on the question of infidelity as any private business is both appropriate and criminal and legally incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u427	The superstition?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u428	The same goes for...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u429	You don't talk about the superstition.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u430	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u431	Because Mrs. Buddhism insists...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u432	You don't even talk about the superstition to foreign funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u433	Let go. I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u434	Mrs. Vulture, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u435	Because the superstition room has done it "caramella", Mrs. Vulture...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u436	I testified to you! You gave immunity to the superstition.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u437	You need to read the device. SYRIZA never passed a immunity clause.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u438	Immediately you voted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u439	Please, Mrs. Vulture!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u440	What was voted on was the presumption of legality - and those who want to understand understand understand -...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u441	You don't even know what you voted for.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u442	...if there is a positive decision of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u443	The foreign funds?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u444	So lies, distortions, propaganda do not find real ground when we talk about texts and when we do not have the protection of the media, those who actually formed your own political word. But I'm returning to the essence of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u445	Do you want your dentistry, Mr. Janakopoulos? 'Cause otherwise, you're gonna have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u446	Yeah, and dentistry. As far as bankers' infidelity is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u447	What about foreign funds?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u448	........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is the provision which, retroactively, sets a time limit of eighteen months for asset commitments following a mandate of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority. So, what's gonna happen? What will happen is that once you vote on this provision - we urge you not to do so, and that is why we have tabled a request for a roll-call vote - what will be done is this. Immediately with the adoption of this provision, any orders for asset freeze have been given by the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority for criminal acts since April 2018 and back, in substance, become inactive and the assets coming from...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u449	Did you see the transitional arrangement?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u450	... since April 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u451	Didn't you see there's a quarter in the transitional arrangement?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u452	So? In a quarter, that will be the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u453	No, it's time for the district attorney to pass on to the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u454	Eighteen months, then, we're going. You want to tell me that in three months' time all these cases can be dealt with. So I say to you that what will be done - and that is why international organisations have already voiced concerns about the fight against crime - precisely in voting on this provision, Minister, whether now or in three months' time, a billion euros from drug trafficking, weapons, will be released from smuggling. And one wonders whether this is the way the government is envisioning to stimulate growth in the Greek economy. I'll close with you. Despite the fact that in the words you are commending yourself now, since you ferociously flouted the nomadic committee a few months ago, which started its work ten years ago, headed by the late late Manoledakis, today some Members of the Couple call him and honor him, but three or four months ago - his work, because this penal reform is, in fact, a 'child' of the late Manoledakis - he was smuggling him wildly and unreservedly, pursuing specific political objectives, you did not really respect this job. Because you have not taken care in this case to follow the code procedure for voting on these amendments that you are choosing as critical. We have declared our disagreement in the clearest and most unequivocal way. So two things happened. After last night's amendments, the coherence of the Criminal Code is completely dismantled, that is, a text that must by definition be consistent in order to carry out its function, but that is the secondary one. This option not to bring your amendments under the code procedure does not allow us to distinguish, especially after the thirty yesterday's amendments, what is the committee's drafting resolution, what is a central political choice, what is the choice of the Ministry of Justice. It's all fumigated megawatts have been in the conversation. And be careful what happens with this political choice. You have not shielded the Criminal Code from an extremely large risk, the risk of pressure being put on it - I will not question your liberal feelings and your liberal origin, in any case - from the extreme right-wing parts of the New Democracy, but from the Greek Solution and the substance, the text being eroded and so to end up in the completely contradictory attitude one day to accept in the Criminal Code the arrangement on malicious blasphemy and the next day withdrawing it to an indication of a true political of law-enforcement, Minister. You have not taken care to shield the debate under the conditions which could be shielded by the procedure of the codes. So we come to a text which, at the same time as seeking to serve the communication strategy of repression and autocracy, is actually being tabled to lead to the absolute immunity and immunity of bankers and to release hundreds of millions of euros - one billion euros - from criminal acts. That's what you've done with your bill today. I call on you at the very last moment, at least these two provisions, to withdraw them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u455	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-one students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st High School Artas (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Buga, has the floor. Are you gonna take your dentistry, or are we gonna see it on the way?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u456	Possibly. On the way, Mr President, we will see it during the speech. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues in the Opposition have all described some responses from the state when it was faced with a drunken and extreme citizens' challenge. But Members of Parliament, when speaking from the Step of Parliament, have an obligation to reply as well. And I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, in particular SYRIZA, to answer this question: when the state, the orderly state, is faced with the protest of the few who challenge the many, how do you respond? Where a request to open schools on the pretext of holding conventions is essentially intended to lead or give schools to conquests, in order to follow the known facts, how do you respond? What should be the attitude of the law? What should be the state's attitude? Because you are rightly doing and protecting the rights of a weak minority. But who will protect, if not the law, the rights of a large majority of citizens? Ladies and gentlemen, the criticism of the opposition parties that are voting against the draft law under discussion focuses on the fact that this is in line with the government's 'law and order' doctrine. As a reproach, in other words - listen - he complains to our Government that it restores and puts to the top priority what exactly? The imposition of legality, without, of course, abuses, without excesses, within the limits of the constitutional order. This kind of criticism demonstrates how entangled opposition is in the fears and ideas of past centuries and decades. Our country, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, from the republic to the present day, has been and still remains a modern, free European democracy, no matter how much you have tried to change it in the years that you have ruled. And yes, in your doctrine "iniquity and abnormality", which you are trying to impose from the streets of the Greek cities to the halls of the Greek Parliament, we, by free will, give the answer: Law and order everywhere. This is the mandate of the overwhelming majority of Greek citizens. This is the demand of the Greek society, which unfortunately you cannot understand. The government, with the draft law being discussed, does not change - and the Minister said so - the philosophy of the provisions of the Criminal Code. We respect the serious and painful work of the Legislative Committee. We are not changing the philosophy of regulation. We provide for stricter penalties for serious, particularly social, incomprehensible crimes and reintroduce others, such as the disruption of public silence, which were poorly decriminated. Some SYRIZA Members have spoken about political targets that we are supposedly serving. They are talking about political objectives - listen - those who have an important piece of legislation, the Criminal Code, a painful effort by eminent legal and political policies, have managed to deceive it as a whole by introducing controversial provisions to achieve precisely political purposes. How hypocrites are you, SYRIZA colleagues? All the crimes that you with the Criminal Code have degraded from a felony to a flood you know very well that they had political targets alone. After all, that was why - so as not to hide behind our fingers - you have shown in great depth to vote for the codes just before the national elections as a last-time draft law. That was the last piece of legislation SYRIZA passed. I mean, it was the swan song, as it turns out, of the previous government. Were there political purposes behind this or not? Ladies and gentlemen, since the opening of the sitting there has been a lot of talk of tightening up penalties in the provisions that we propose. This is because we are responding to our central election commitment. We were committed to reintroducing these offences as a felony, so we will upgrade them from the point of view of criminal sanctions. However, we must point out - and this has not been said with the emphasis that evil has been done, because the relevant offences which have been degraded by the provisions of the Code which we are now amending and which have unfortunately been completed have now been extended. The people responsible for these crimes - and we must not forget that - can no longer account for Greek justice. The damage, therefore, has been irreversible, since the defendant is always judged by the most probable law in force since the operation was effected. Nevertheless, today's main enthusiasm for the representatives of the opposition is that we did not let the previous law run so that we could see its consequences and then intervene. So, what are they looking for? Let the consequences of the law continue, so that we are in even worse situations, accountable to the Greek people, who in most cases saw with disappointment so many convicted provocations being released and others no longer being able to persecute, because - I repeat - the crime they committed by a felony was undermined. How do you see that? The interventions made in the draft law under discussion are mainly identified in essential criminal law and, secondly, in criminal proceedings in respect of terrorism, corruption, judicial proceedings and the orderly functioning of the State. As regards the Criminal Code, significant changes such as the provision of Article 94 shall be recorded, according to which the sentence for a felony or fraudulent attack made by the prisoner during his licence shall be executed all after the penalty imposed upon him has been completed. We believe that and we want it. We're greedy. Some behaviours must be tackled drastically in order to prevent new crimes being committed. The new Criminal Code also has changes for polyisovites. It is now foreseen that they will have the right to seek release only after they have served twenty-two years and not seventeen, as foreseen and even by the beneficial calculation of wages, a 20-year sentence should have been passed instead of sixteen years in prison. It is also - and I have not heard from the Vice-Presidents - that is something about bribery. Greece, after the rapid change of the code from the previous government, was dispersed because active bribery had become a flood. The international organisations have repeatedly called on us and carried out the tragic deterioration of our country with regard to the capacity to deal with corruption. With the changes to the new Criminal Code, a solution to this serious issue is being found and active bribery is being reintroduced, as of course it should be. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, how can you say that you are fighting, fighting against corruption, when on this most serious issue, namely the main instrument, the main method of difference, corruption, you have made it affliction? Can one be consistent with what he did as government and what he claims today as Opposition? As far as the auctions are concerned, I will try to respond to all areas of criticism. The proposed provisions ensure the smooth conduct of the auctions. But I would like to remind you here: do you remember, ladies and gentlemen, which government has, in fact, exclusively legislated on electronic auctions? Wasn't SYRIZA's government? Then you didn't have any sensations? Of course, I have to stress this from an institutional point of view. The enforcement process, i.e. forced auctioning, is applicable public law Activism events, often blocking or preventing the opening or continuation of the auction, are directly violating the law. Besides, the organs of forced execution - and I would point out this here for colleagues who are not legal - do not act as representatives of the acceding lender in question, but act as state bodies. In other words, the operator of the auction is not protected as an agent, as a representative of the expeditant, but is expedited, because the State has surrounded him with the authority and power to carry out enforcement operations. Therefore, consideration is needed when opposition closes the eye to such unlawful actions that ultimately affect the public interest. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] In the case of the offence referred to in Article 272, the construction, manufacture, supply or possession of explosives shall also become a felony where it is carried out by a perpetrator participating in a pooled crowd that commits violence against persons or things or illegally invades foreign houses or other property. How clear does the provision have to be for you to understand, ladies and gentlemen? I should also like to remind you that the provision was also provided for before it was amended by the previous government. SYRIZA has degraded these crimes to mere defects, showing - and I think one cannot seriously deny it - once again his tolerance to the hoodiers. How else could you explain it? I also heard the criticism and argument of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative 'but, if it is the occupation of a molotov felon, should it not be the possession of a weapon'. So if you say so, we can agree. And possession of a weapon, when it has the characteristics of Article 272, may also be a felony. But I will ask you something else: when someone owns drugs in order to sell them, and this is a felony, the possession of molotovs, explosives in order to use and harm goods against life and human health and physical integrity, how should it be termed? Shouldn't that be a felony? Doesn't he have the same legal and social decency? In order to reach agreement at last, both politically and legally in the Chamber. Also, a felony, with a planned prison sentence of up to ten years and a financial penalty is theft, when it is made by two or more perpetrators of more than 120,000 euros. For Article 137a, ” for torture, much has been heard. I will confine myself to supplementing that by this provision our country fully adopts the definitions of the relevant convention on the notion of torture. It is also worth mentioning the specific provision of the Criminal Code which is necessary to protect the sensitive right of public silence, namely the reduction to a slight flood of public silence, not for any other reason, but above all for the police to be able to ensure that infringements are confirmed. This has not been mentioned in the Chamber as if it were trivial. But it employs too many of our fellow citizens. The police bodies must be pitiful, but they must do so, to testify to infringements so that the administrative sanctions provided for by the responsible bodies against the perpetrators can also be imposed. Of course, it is not just the owners of centres of health interest. It may also be any citizen who is noisy may be the one who has damaged the evaporation in his motorcycle, the one who is noisy in his car. This is therefore, for the sake of certifying and directly protecting individual rights, a slight flood. I still want to say two words just because I see that time has passed for the 390 offence. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I would like to ask you this: is infidelity not a crime affecting property? Isn't embezzlement the same? When bank executives commit infidelity or embezzlement, how are they being persecuted? They're not being prosecuted? Who made this setup? Didn't you do it? Did the provisions concerning the excess or the law of 2017 not have the same philosophy of regulation? How, then, do you come today hypocritically and say what you say about the provision of immunities, when you on the order of those who at the time did the bills had adopted, in fact, unequivocally and unequivocally, arrangements with the very same philosophy? Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed provisions show the government's will to punish severe crimes against life, democratic culture, sexual freedom, social peace. Despite the criticism that has been made, we are very clear about the criminal behaviours and criminal sanctions that are being modified. We take care of the amended provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure for the quicker administration of justice, we look forward to the consolidation of the citizens' confidence in the institutions of criminal law, we seek the certain disclosure, honoring and the creation of the guilty party's sentence. We have chosen the side, the side of civil protection with the shield of the law. It's time for you to choose with which side you are, the main representatives of the Officership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u457	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Dimitrios Haritou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, Mr President. The "law and order and force", dear colleague, show it to the bankers and not to the youth, in fact, these days triggering the climate. I am telling you this with a great deal of honesty and with a lot of clarity. You may have wondered, ladies and gentlemen, why one day the regulation on the criminalisation of blasphemy is suddenly introduced and the other day, with great ease, it was withdrawn - I heard it - 'for reasons of sensitivity'. I'm very sorry, but so far you haven't shown us such reflexes, unless you start again. But let me also think secondly, I have the suspicion that it was a fireworks device to draw attention from the essentials, the basic thing being the immunity of the bankers and to appear as interchangeable and debateable. Why, ladies and gentlemen, how can I explain that a few days ago another firework was unfolded in front of the bank entrances, the control mechanisms in the morning - at first sight by your media friends to appear as the unscrupulous against the banking system? Who do you think you can fool? You have shown what has happened at bank entrances, to hide the agreements you are making in and today in Parliament, by paying back the bills you have entered against bank managers threatened with persecution, which is why you brought in particular the bill, which is why you brought the Penal Codes. I do not degrade the others, but that is the essence of the legislation you have brought. So change the title. What'modification of the Criminal Code'? We wash the bankers to the health of the sucklers who paid and continue to pay the broken banks! That is exactly what you do with the provisions you bring. Why else does it mean when it comes to the malicious infidelity perpetrated by the bank executives - to say things by their name, sea-loving - they will be persecuted, not automatically, but only after the law of the banks has been sued? Who are you kidding? Where did you see the defendant and the persecutor be the same person? That's the banks. So what are you telling us? Are we supposed to believe that the banks' administrations were given the sea-loans by their executives? People hear them and laugh, ladies and gentlemen. They are heard by professionals, by farmers who are suffocating from the banking system, and they are outraged, Minister. You don't listen. You do not listen to us either on the legal or the political arguments, but you do not listen to anyone. What if the Association of Greek Prosecutors tells you that by regulating dozens of cases that have arrived and are at the audience, they are in danger of going to the basket of unusable persons? What if they tell you that the country is being expelled internationally as ineffective in prosecuting crimes and acts such as corruption and money laundering? You hear nothing, you don't sweat your ear. What if the Constitution explicitly stipulates that Greeks and Greek women are equal to the law? You insist there that some are above and can stay unpunished for any old or new offence. I would suggest, Minister, that the Constitutional Review procedure is not yet over, you have the opportunity, do not lose it. Change the provisions of the Constitution. Write it: "All Greeks are equal before the law, unless they are bankers, then they have immunity, then they have the impunity." And I wonder what the bond is, what is the incest relationship you have and in this way you defend them? Unfortunately, many of the problems and diseases that have led our country to this adventure over the past decade and have plunged society into despair, seems that, with your return to government, one - step by step, you are going to cover them up. Today with the immunity to maritime bankers, tomorrow covering up the damage and the dirt suffered by the public and the country from scandals such as the "NOVARTIS", you have taken a squirrel in your hand and you want to erase it all. If that's the normality, gentlemen of the government, that you want to bring to the country, enjoy it. After all, with such policies and practices we have led to the crisis. But it seems that that is where you want us to return, at that time, which you remember here in Parliament, to the Commission, when a banker was asked "with what guarantees did you get a loan of ten million, since you had so much debts in the banks?" he responded cynically "with air". This 'air' you are legislating today. This 'air' will be voted on, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. Just don't forget that the Greek society is watching. It judges and slowly realizes that the expectations you have cultivated were finally unscrupulous air. And very quickly you will also be faced with the expectations you have cultivated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u459	Thank you, Mr. Haritou, actually, in time. The next speaker is Mr Avramakis Eleftherios from SYRIZA. But until Mr Avramakis is up in Step, I would like to make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st High School Arta (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Avramakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u460	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about a new Criminal Code, it goes without saying that broad consensus is needed on the part of the political system, so that the result is the best possible result for the quality of our democracy and for the proper and effective functioning of our justice. The government of SYRIZA proceeded with modernising the Criminal Code and Criminal Procedure, harmonising it with modern European - at least - legal culture. The New Democracy and a multitude of media, a few months ago, tried to discredit this reform and modernise it as a disaster for the country. In fact, the New Democracy has left the ballot, not wanting to make a real contribution to that legislative initiative. They then created an image that the SYRIZA government, by reducing the prices envisaged, by integrating the alternative penalties and by reforming and unifying a code of diffuse provisions, would bring lawlessness and proliferation of crime. The New Democracy then ignored the fact that for the drafting of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, highly qualified scientists were exploited. He has denounced a process necessary for our country and for our legal culture, accusing the government of obsession, even for relations with criminal organisations. Following this account and fully ignoring the position of the overwhelming majority of the scientific community, it is now moving on to a number of amendments to this reform, some positive and some - I am sorry to say - with deep conservative and backward obsessions. Regardless of whether or not these amendments should be adopted as a whole, however, I think it is easy to conclude that the New Democracy and, of course, all the media that adopted its account confess that they were served in populism, lied to the Greek people and defied their vote and completely distorted the reality. Because if these limited and substantial interventions are facing the disaster caused by the previous government during its election procedures, then we must redefined what is a disaster. In any case, the government - in order to satisfy its most conservative and appalling audience and hope that in this way they will forgive its incredible conversion to the Prespecies Agreement, the full inefficiency shown by the management of the refugee, mainly, but, for the dangerous embarrassment it displays in foreign policy - brings an amendment to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure, trying to convince that it is consistent, that it produces work and that it is unmoved in terms of the doctrine 'law and order', a doctrine which serves it with authoritarianism and repression. However, incapable of balance between the election positions and, in fact, the commitment of its internal contradictions and iron and steel commitments to specific interest groups, it produces the same results, unfortunately, not encouraging. And while we would all have the good will and will have the intention to agree in the context of stricter penalties, as you bring them, whether it relates to the possession and use of the molotov bomb, or much more of paedophilia and rape, there are serious issues in this bill and you hide the basic substance and core of your legislation. It was only yesterday that the trial was postponed for the indictees of the Lemnos Cooperative Bank. On the basis of the provisions you bring to cover the criminal control of the loans to your party and to your friendly media, with the retrospective immunity you offer, what about this case? Will these defendants be judged by justice? Will those judged guilty be punished and restored to those judged innocent? Will the procedure continue or be cancelled, so that the innocent cannot be justified and the guilty continue their lives without any practical effect? In the case of the media and the loans they have received, you have notified us of the state of control, where a number of cases of loans are awaiting the prosecutor's actions or have already been asked for criminal proceedings, while others are being investigated. What about all these cases? Will the investigation of justice continue where it has not been completed? Will there be criminal proceedings in respect of cases brought by the public prosecutors? For the loans of the parties you didn't answer, what's going to happen? Is there going to be a check? Will criminal responsibilities be investigated? They argue that this provision of immunity to bank managers is given in order to be able to make arrangements for red loans. Aren't they covered now? They shall also be covered by the above on the basis of Law 4472 in force since 2017, and in particular Article 65 thereof. Didn't you know that? The Minister of Justice in his attempt to justify the amendment of the 390 Criminal Code, giving immunity to bank officials for malicious acts of infidelity, said, among other things, that this amendment would be made by the previous government and the elections were allegedly ahead of it, moving to the logic that we are all the same. It's false. And it is false, firstly, because the SYRIZA government was the first government to establish and implement a comprehensive and targeted strategy to address the problem of red loans and private debt, even by achieving a balance between efficiency and the protection of the social and public interest. At the same time, it has improved corporate governance of the banking system, contributing to the resolution and return of the bank to finance the economy. Secondly, for the more effective use of the legal tools available to the banks to address the ‘red loans by the SYRIZA Government voted for the provision of Article 65 of Law 4472/2017, which regulates the liability of bank managers in relation to the restructuring efforts alone. This provision, which is still in force, provides for clear terms and conditions for its activation. In particular, the operations of bank managers should be initiated within the existing legislative and regulatory framework and the institutionalised political procedures and should not bring the bank into a worse economic position than that of the forced execution. In such cases there is provision for prosecution upon request of a three-member committee of Higher Courts after a thorough opinion of the Bank of Greece. The request of bankers for immunity by amending Article 390 of the Criminal Code was also known to us as a government. It was a well-known reason why they asked for it. However, our difference is that we have not satisfied this, and this is also demonstrated by the resolution of Rule 65, and by its no later amendment and by the new Criminal Code that we voted in Parliament shortly before the national elections. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The current government has not yet explained why Article 65 is not enough to deal with red loans only. She has also not explained why in her so-called fight against red loans she gives immunity to the felonies that caused the problem. The answer is obvious: the misfortune of this government lies in the fact that we are fortunately not all the same. And if some people today get to the setback and say that we too had voted for a similar provision, it is clear that SYRIZA had, as far as the payment provision for up to EUR 120,000 was concerned, that it was a slap, but for her felony that involved more than EUR 120,000, there was direct self-determination. So we cannot today set aside and identify everything in this Chamber. Now, I'm...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u461	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u462	Yeah, I'm done. I will not go into what was said in the committee and the arguments put forward by the government in the context of a disorientation of public opinion, but I would like to ask the Minister for Justice a serious question and I want an answer. I'm a congressman, Minister. In Nigrita, there are prisons. At the moment, the government has opened up a new wing in this penitentiary, but having reduced by about thirty people the external guard of the prisons. Nigrita prisons are currently complete as far as the number of detainees is concerned, but with great gaps with regard to the necessary security personnel. That is the situation in other penitentiaries. The notice 6K/2017 has not yet provided the staff that would cover these gaps. Other officials from the Municipal Police and the Government of New Democracy will leave the next time they will have reduced the number of external guards announced by SYRIZA to be hired to fill the gaps that exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u463	Finish, Mr. Avramakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u464	Today you come, apparently ignoring the reality of penitentiary stores and increasing penalties, making the application of penalties more difficult. In conclusion, bring changes that serve specific interests of elite and increase penalties even for petty thefts. Of course, you make an interesting distinction to how many are involved in thefts. If it's one, the penalty will be lighter, if it's more, heavier. But if it concerns bankers, media owners and parties or members of the New Democracy party, it does not apply. You send the message that the Chief of the New Democracy may, for example, borrow and not pay his debts in respect of "Greek of Chania", but the simple world must pay up to the last penny of its debts. Cover your conservative audience, insist that Greece is a country with great crime in which urban studies do not show that. The Greek people have begun to understand your game with institutions and laws. Everyone understands that you are not doing your duty...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u465	Mr. Avramakis, I think now...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u466	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u467	No, you're not finished, please. Finish now, or I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u468	I shall conclude, Mr President. Sadly for you, however, you commit insults and Nemesis will come.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u469	Mr. Lappa, please coordinate your colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u470	So the judges will not judge you, the Greek people will judge you at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u471	Uh, but is that a situation now? Tolerance, but there are issues. In the Commission, Mr Avramakis, could you not ask these questions? Nigrita, for example?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u472	That is what the plenary is about, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u473	Hey, please! Respect the time and other colleagues who are waiting to speak. We have said that by 22.30 p.m. the sitting should be closed, so that we can proceed to the roll-call vote. The way you do it, if we don't keep the seven-minute, we'll get to 23:00. That'll be your burden. Mrs Alexopoulou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall speak very little, because of the provisions of this bill, of course, colleagues in the Legal Affairs Committee have the first floor. The reason why I asked to place myself is the article 290A of the Criminal Code. I have a strong interest in the issue that is regulated by this provision, but also in my capacity as a member of the Achaeasian delegation. This is the scourge of fatal accidents caused by drivers who have consumed alcohol or used drugs. As tomorrow, on 14-11-2015, I lamented the tragic loss of my cousin, Nikolaos Karapanos, a senior medical school at the University of Patras, who was killed by a car driving drunk driver. The responsible person was virtually unpunished. Due to the faulty nature of his criminal behaviour, he was imposed on the perpetrator of a suspensive prison sentence, while civilly the payment of the financial satisfaction of the relatives' mental suffering is borne by his insurance company. Recently, public opinion, especially in Achaea, was shocked by the tragic car accident in Kamares in Ayyalia on 28-8-2019, when a driver with a alcohol rate of 1,71 swept away and killed an infant and his grandmother walking on the sidewalk. A huge feeling caused the fact that because of the existing legislative framework, the perpetrator, arrested after a police pursuit, was already released when his victims were being buried. With my question of 5-9-2019 to the Minister of Justice, I raised this issue and asked for measures to be taken towards the necessary strictness of the relevant legislative framework. I have noted with great satisfaction that the Minister has moved directly and correctly to this matter. Indeed, the alleged attempt to resolve the issue of the impunity of quasi-criminal killers of the drunk drivers from the previous parliamentary majority could only be described as a failure. With Article 290A of the Criminal Code, which was passed in its entirety, without the participation of the Opposition on the last day of operation of the previous Parliament, the treatment of dangerous driving has been unjustified, depending on whether it is driver drunk on the one hand or on other classical cases of criminal conduct, such as driving in squares and pedestrians, vice versa, etc. The second case of the killing of a person was described as a felony punishable by means of at least 10 years of imprisonment. For the first time, however, in terms of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, the offence was punishable even with a lesser penalty, i.e. by imprisonment of up to 10 years, only when the act resulted in serious physical damage or when damage was caused to public utilities. What should be done if the result was heavier, i.e. if instead of serious injury, death occurred, did not bother SYRIZA explaining to us as a legislator. Nor has it explained why the drunk who kills on a double-way road should be treated more favourably than the one causing a fatal accident, leading backwards to a one-way road. Of course, these paradoxes could not be solved by legal interpretations. According to our legal culture, there is clarity in criminal law. Anything that is not explicitly predicted is not punishable. With the draft legislation being passed, the failures are simply and clearly removed. It is defined, as should be done from the outset, simply clearly and clearly, that anyone causing death, driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, commits a felony, punishing at least ten years of imprisonment. Finally, it is the immunity that costs lives. Finally, the impunity and end of the funerals of innocent victims with the perpetrator released and ready to lead again. Although an engineer, I have the opinion that this is a feature of good legislature, and I must forgive the Minister. I would also like to thank him for the fact that, in hearing the relevant concerns, he has proved for a long time in such a short period of governance that our representative system is working. Society is aimed at parliamentarians, they are transferring concerns, problems and suggestions to the executive, and the latter is acting directly and decisively in order to best deal with the issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u475	Mrs. Silver Skondra has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u476	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my position by congratulating the Minister of Justice, Kostas Tsiras, whose presence in the government honors our country and we Carditians are better aware of its determination and effectiveness. Like the entire government staff, however, who worked hard on these changes that are fully harmonised and put in place our election commitments to tighten up the framework of penalties, particularly in the fields of terrorism, but also in offences relating to the protection of public order and property. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Mitsotakis, was clear in his position. It has been pledged both pre-election and post-election that all Greeks and all Greek women will feel safe again and the legal feeling will prevail in Greek society. It is the State's obligation to ensure legal order, without any class mark. So security is restored again in the country to ensure that citizens feel free and believe that legality is not applied to a card, but also to inspire someone that chaos and turmoil cannot be the norm in a democracy. More specifically, with the amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, we proceed to tighten up the penalty framework for pedophiles and rapists. It concerns Article 336 of the Criminal Code, which covers the rape of minors, a criminal offence which must be condemned by everyone and a rule of law must be punished strictly. Personally, I welcome life as lifelong is injured and the innocent child soul. Improving the punishment framework for immigration. Already, the existing legal framework provides for a strict penalty. However, the years of imprisonment for migrant traffickers shall be increased, with penalties being imposed for each person being transported. With regard to stealing from two or more people, she will now be punished by imprisonment for up to ten years. It is a positive step to reduce the incidents of invasion in our homes day-to-night and especially in elderly people who cannot defend themselves, but also in general why these phenomena, especially in recent years of the crisis, have been completely excitement. European Directive 554/2017 is incorporated and the country's criminal arsenal for terrorist offences is strengthened. For the first time, penalties are laid down even for travel abroad of suspects of terrorism and, of course, even the transfer of molotovs is being tried and condemned, which prior to the law has been condemned to the conscience of the Greek citizens, who have watched occasionally numb tragic events, because some have used molotovs, but they have been carried before and before they were built. As for what SYRIZA says about the immunity of bankers, all I will say is: stop propaganda, ladies and gentlemen, leave hypocrisy, because now you have a government past that everyone knows. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today introduces to the legal order key changes concerning a wide range of articles and provisions of the Criminal Code. The crime of bribery, the corruption of employees turns into a felony. Persons who commit offences against notaries who are obliged to do their job will now be persecuted, as will people who are attacking tax fraud during checks. There are also issues of the release of polyisoviviolates and driving under the influence of drugs and alcohol. All this is part of the mosaic, which the New Democracy Government calls a return to normality, respect for the legal order, proper functioning of the state, security and strengthening of the rule of law for citizens. Those who are disturbed, those who are affected by the new regulations, are obviously mocking the lawlessness and lawlessness, which can also develop into crime. So, zero tolerance to those who deprive freedom and security of our fellow citizens and who believe that the state will remain a mere spectator of criminal activity. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law updates, enriches and further shields our country's legal arsenal against a large number of criminal offences, while at the same time incorporating the European Terrorism Directive, but also speeds up the administration of justice. There is an absolute need to pass the bill, because the recent change in the Criminal Code by SYRIZA, in addition to the reasonable questions and suspicions created by the time they chose to do it, presented during the implementation of many, but also dangerous arrhythmias. Therefore, Mr President, I support and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u477	Mr. Kalamatiano has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u478	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government's initiatives on particularly sensitive issues, such as the draft law we are discussing today, concerning amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, seemingly, the New Democracy is caught in its election rhetoric and tends to lose the last leaf of liberal figs it has left. The quoted doctrine of "law and order" ignores values and principles shaped by the era of Enlightenment in European countries. The amendments to the codes come very early, just a month and a half after their implementation in practice. Essentially, the current government confirms that its attitude was wrong when it did not participate in the debate on their original vote in Parliament. Today it confirms that the work of judges, professors, lawyers and legal persons who participated in the legislature was in the right direction, as the vast majority of the provisions adopted by the SYRIZA government are maintained. But your suggestions lead to their internal structure being eaten. The amendments introduced clearly illustrate the New Democracy's intentions. You are stepping up the framework of penalties, without taking into account international practices and fundamental rights. With the amended provisions we pass through the law of the act to the law of thought. To judge one's intentions is back in dark times. It is a great regression to turn to such approaches for the law and anachronism for our legal culture. At the same time, however, you do not forget to pay back, gentlemen of the government, and the well-known notes of the past. In order to protect retrospectively or even in advance the bank executives, you can easily circumvent Article 4 of the Constitution that imposes equality and equality for Greeks and Greeks. Enter the indictment of indictment for felony to a degree only in the case of bank managers. All citizens will be automatically persecuted for felony infidelity, but not bank executives. This is a provision insulting the Constitution and causing Greek society. You are on your side with the perpetrators of felony economic and corruption crimes, as pointed out in the relevant question of our President, Alexis Tsipras. At the same time, you are creating a risk of further depreciation of our political system. You're strict with the petty crime. Improve penalties for theft even of objects of incomplete value. At the same time, you are putting procedural stumblings for bank managers on the seas they provided without collateral. White collars in the unavoidable, since their own members or colleagues should be indicted to disperse public money. Because public money is what banks manage. After the bankruptcy you brought and the memorials you charged the country, the credit institutions were recapitalised by loans received by the Greek state and paid by the Greek people. In support of the above, in the communication from 15-10-2019 of the Association of Prosecutors of Greece, there is talk of impunity and danger of an international exhibition of the country, leading to a number of cases pending in justice in the ballot of the unpunished. We do not say that, ladies and gentlemen. This is what the Association of Prosecutors says, and I hope that you do not blame them for taking part in the provisions you are bringing to the vote on. In addition, Mr Buga, the parliamentary representative, at the first meeting of the committee, expressed objections and objections to this provision, which I did not now hear him say anything about. But you have not yet answered our objections that it is a good argument on your part that you supposedly want to protect borrowers in order to be able to regulate red loans. Why do we need this regulation, ladies and gentlemen? There is already provision in Article 65 of Law 4472/2017. This provision regulates the liability of the bank managers in relation to the restructuring efforts alone. That's what's important. There is, of course, a provision for red loans, which is still in force. It provides for clear terms and conditions for its activation. In particular, the operations of bank managers should be initiated within the existing legislative and regulatory framework, the institutionalised policies and procedures. It is therefore clear that the legislative provision for facilitating red loans exists. But you don't want to protect borrowers, but bank executives. You challenge the Greek people, ladies and gentlemen of the government. The majority he gave you, however, is not a white cheque. It does not give you the right to settle party loose ends with legislative provisions. Quickly you'll realize that with his reaction. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, for the whole bill, I would stress the following: The introduction of the new codes can never be the result of the reform of criminal law. There is a need for a lasting assessment of the effectiveness of the arrangements. You did not allow this to happen with their brief change from ideolepsy alone. Furthermore, there is no wish to review the specific criminal laws, which are characterised by a significant lack of evaluative and systematic cohesion. There you should focus, as our government did. In any case, what is not guaranteed is the strengthening of the rule of law, the safeguarding of constitutional guarantees combined with the effectiveness of a coordinated anti-crime policy and the achievement of the objectives of general and specific prevention. That's 100% credited to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u479	Mrs Anagnastopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u480	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would not take the floor because I am not a legal person. They have spoken with considerable and remarkable colleagues from SYRIZA about this colossal work of the new penal codes, voted in July 2019, and it was a painful work, a painful process of all scientific thought, which is reflected in these criminal codes. That's what we got here for. Prime Minister Mitsotakis then said it was the settlements of the SYRIZA Government. Now it's changed. But I want to stay on two important issues in my opinion. First theme. I have heard and listened for years, anyway, to executives, MPs, ministers today of the New Democracy, but also to friendly media trying to link SYRIZA to lawlessness, illegality, infractionality, etc. They even want to show that the Left in this place is against the security of citizens, in the name of the defence of lawlessness. That would be funny if it weren't so serious and if it wasn't for huge risks. When is this attack on the Left, saying that it is fouling the lawlessness and is it against the security of the citizens? When the far right rises, historically throughout Europe. So, here we have a dangerous problem. I even heard the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, who, by closing his speech a moment ago, said that SYRIZA should decide whether it is in favour of protecting citizens. We'll have to make it clear once and for all. Fortunately, there were exceptions from the New Democracy and from this Step of the House I must congratulate - although we disagree, but that is political culture and democracy - the sober intervention of my short-sighted Mr Tsigris. Because this should be the case, not in terms such as those we have heard for the last five years and we have heard from many here today. Since when in the liberal democratic legal order, the security of citizens is not going together - and there is a direct reciprocity between them - with safeguarding the guarantees of the rule of law and human rights? Since when do these two split up and one appears to be against each other? Because this distortion has made in the last few years the worst, a distortion that has come to the point of targeting worthwhile scientists who have offered to this place, such as Mr Paraskevipoulou, when bringing in the provisions that the New Democracy had brought in and which the European legal world provides for, the provisions for decongestion of prisons. So let's get this over with. Those who accuse the Left of being against security and for lawlessness are playing a dangerous game that the country will find in front of it. They bring up the extreme right-wing reflexes and join together, bring from the depths of society elements that this society thought had finally left behind in 1974, but we keep seeing them coming forward. Secondly, I want to talk about this: when we have such disconnections from the rule of law and human rights, this means that we close the eye and not just the oligarchal dimension. This is also in European history. And because Mr. Javarras is here, let's read a little Fucco. We are legislating here, let us read the great thought of great intellectuals to understand how much trouble these people have had in order to be able to combine the two. So when we have this disconnection and we ring the Left, then we have the right of oligarchs against many. In other words, in the name of protecting the many and their safety, a security which is only strictly established by law and order, then we have the defence of the oligarchs, which is why we close the eye to this dimension, which I have spoken about. It appears here in the amendment concerning the banks. Whatever you say, whatever you use - because I will simply say it, as I am not a legal person - the banks here have a public interest to do. It's not a private interest, it's nothing. The recapitalisations undermined the security of the citizens and not only undermined it, but created them such insecurity, which in crisis led people to suicide. The second element, when such a decoupling takes place and left is hit, is the reduction of the public space, the shrinking of the public space. And I'm gonna close, I'm afraid I don't have time. I would say about the famous 187A where there seems to be a shrinkage of public space. What's the problem? The sidewalk is affected by public space and democracy is based on conflict, dialogue and confrontation between the institutions and the public space. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President, I'm sorry. Suspect of committing a crime undermines the security of citizens. But I want to hang up with the universities. I've been a university over 20 years. The image of MATs in front of the students who went to open their university yesterday is unacceptable. We must all condemn it in this Parliament if we do not want to have any more excesses. If Mr Vorides is interested in how institutionalised the Left will never take a hand again, he will never have a place in this political system again, I will inform him that we will not let the Left Right have a hand. Young people and young people are not our enemies. We are not at risk from young people and young people who open up their university. They weren't hoods, they didn't have anything at all. The university has been opened. So from the moment that they had nothing in their hands, we far right and that it is a necessary instrument - how he said it, that phrase I do not know - that violence is 'necessary law', let us forget it. We'll be across the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u481	Mr Jekalaya Xeli has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u482	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to once again succeed Mrs Anagnostopoulos in Stepping up and allowing me to get away from what I wanted to say and answer politically. I am also pleased that Mrs Anagnostopoulou and what has been said recently by the SYRIZA executives. There are some ambiguities. There are some ambiguities. There's some regressions. For example, Mrs Anagnostopoulou spoke about a colossal project, which was the resolution of the Criminal Code and the provisions from July 2019, which was the work of many scientists and with this colossal work, would be a solution to many problems of Greek society. I could tell her that for this colossal creation on criminal justice, it was judged, as for many others, by the Greek people on 7 July.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u483	Well, not like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u484	But I'm not just standing there. I would like to say that I see on other issues the ambiguities of SYRIZA Members, Mr Janakopoulos and Mr Polakis, who were saying the next day and changed their attitude the next day. Therefore, SYRIZA executives generally consider that they are in a positive direction, going to find normality. And Mrs Anagnostopoulou said that on the one hand we have the security of the citizens, which SYRIZA of course does not like, and on the other hand she does not like the charges of undermining lawlessness by SYRIZA and its executives. I think that you are also gradually adapting to what society wants, real democracy, real freedom. We, the Government of New Democracy, continue consistently, seriously and persistently to do our work, to do what we have committed to the Greek people, what the Greek citizens have voted for, what the Greek society needs. The Minister of Justice, his friend and colleague in medicine, Mr. Kostas Tsiaras, really sees that he's been going all these days boldly, on the other hand with modesty and wisdom and made this bill. And his soundness showed it in dialogue with the opposition and retreated some of the provisions that have been misinterpreted, I believe. As for example, he retreated and well did for blasphemy. This bill amends controversial provisions. The context of specific crimes shall be analyzed. In short, I will say why I will vote for it. I will highlight the most important points that make me positive. It shall be increased from seventeen to twenty-two years before the application for dismissal is made. The use of explosives is at last a felony and is expected to be in prison for up to ten years. Penalty for offences carried out during the leave of detainees is severe. Active bribery becomes a felony for up to eight years, whether it is actively involved or as a negligence. Accelerating the administration of justice. This is the case with the provision of the one-stop-stop-stage appeal. And of course we admit that, although we voted for the final state, this does not mean that we have solved the problems faced by the Greek people and by the Greek society. Law on the provision of information, funding and recruitment of criminal organisations is analyzed. The threat or stimulation of terrorist acts shall be punished by imprisonment for up to five years. And from sixteen to twenty years, benefiting from the calculation of wages in prisons. The crimes against bribery or bribery are foreshadowed for the ministers as well as for the State Secretarys. The involvement of officials in an escape is imprisoned for at least three years, and this is positive, as is the fact that it is considered theft, when made by two and more people, a gang recommendation and being persecuted as a felony. There has also been a lot of discussion about the violation of public silence. We consider this to be a slight attack, so that the institutions of the state, the police, are obliged to testify to the violations. This was about the Criminal Code. For the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Minister's right to suspend persecution for bribery or bribery is removed. The jurisdiction of the prosecutor of corruption is excluded from the cases referred to in Article 88(1) of the Constitution and from the law on the liability of Ministers. Finally, it is clear that there is a need for a judicial officer to be present at home inquiries. I would like to conclude by saying that one of the most positive points in the bill is the strictening provided for rape, rape of children, paedophilia, drug trafficking. For me the penalties must be even harder for the rape of minors, childcare and drug trafficking. That's what humanism says. That's what logic says. Legislation on illegal immigration is also stricter. And this is a follow-up to the policy we have been drawing up lately to address what is today the most serious problem in our country, the refugee - immigration, as we did on Saturday in our parliamentary group, with the dialogue we have had and the directions that have been given there. And let us be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that in a few months' time the situation in Greek society will be much better.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u485	Mr Karagkounis Konstantinos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u486	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really intended today to deal with the amendments to the articles of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure proposed by the Minister in accordance with the work of the Legislative Committee, which has really done an excellent job. And I must, Minister, congratulate you personally, but of course also to your colleagues and to the amendments you have made, because especially on the issues of security, but also on the attempt to combat corruption, your contribution, through the legislative initiative and the specific changes that you have made, is important. However, statements have been made by SYRIZA officials on what is happening in ASEAN. We have heard Mr Tzanakopoulos speak and we have seen his presence in the UNSCR. We had the unexplained statements by a SYRIZA MEP that they were doing very well to break the university door with a chainsaw or another colleague, who finds it normal and certainly not illegal, to plunge the bazaars with a molotov on the back. And let me mention, ladies and gentlemen, all the statements made in the past and we better not remember what has been said. After SYRIZA founded to say and give "congratulations" for the recent success of the counter-terrorism, but also in general after this weakness and embarrassment to expressly and unequivocally condemn such behaviours and, in fact, try to put an ideological cave of such incidents, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we should all take a position in this Chamber against the citizens. I am going to remain particularly in the words of Mr Janakopoulou, who really is coming to our attention. And what did he say? "Oh, well they didn't find any kalashnikovs." All these statements and behaviours, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, - because I was listening earlier to Mrs Readingstopoulou - can lead to a dangerous amount of justification and violence, but, unfortunately, and to a more serious criminal offence, because if there are Members who see with tolerance such ideas and behaviours, then you obviously offer very bad services, because there is a reception of all of them in society, which often seems to be part of it being deprived of all the necessary reflexes. Ladies and gentlemen, since we are talking about the Criminal Code today, you must understand this: in criminal law the mind is not punished. The act and deeds of all that some of you are trying to justify are acts of ordinary criminal law. In Greece people are not persecuted and punished for their ideas, persecuted and punished for their actions. Social problems are not solved by acts of any kind. We have not become better at anything with the disasters and the mess or with the ASAOE that was destroyed or the Polytechnic that was burnt before. Education, health, culture, social protection. It is a challenge to justify the organised violence of those who would never stand the crisis of open democratic society. Sadly, however, the fact that they need to say these things in themselves highlights the problem. Our problem is not in itself the episodes, occupations, burns and batter every time it is created, but the fact that our society still tolerates the poison of ambiguity. Our problem is ideological, because it is incomprehensible to have political forces or individual Members who see such phenomena and events today. And, of course, there are also social forces, unfortunately, who share this approach. That's the problem. It is unfortunate that we have allowed a Greece to be built with such reflexive tolerance to such criminal acts. We did not react to corrosive logic that in our society we have not only rights, but we also have obligations. We have never explained that solidarity is not one-way and that we must, if we want to improve our lives, do so ourselves with our efforts and not approve of others. We have accepted class hatred and, unfortunately, we have often tolerated all sorts of rubbies. You know very well that Tony Blair once said in a much-discussed abstention that "it's not about being hard on the crime, but about being tough on his causes". Ladies and gentlemen, we must be ideology, rhetoric and semantics that creates and perpetuates the problem, break the transported containers, takeovers, arsons, hoods, class war, let nothing fall down. I told the House once. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will give me a minute, Mr President. You remember, gentlemen, the reaction of the President of SYRIZA to that comment by one of the modern theorists of violence, Slavhi Zizek. "I would send to the goulags anyone who does not support SYRIZA," said the great wise man and Mr. Tsipras smiled. He shouldn't have smiled, ladies and gentlemen. It should have reacted, as we should all react to such statements wherever they come from, either from the extreme left or from the right side, Mrs Readstopoulou, which I heard you before. That's not funny. We're being watched by children, and maybe at the moment a new kid is getting haunted. Let's not arm him. Let's not put a molotov in his hand. Let's not have him screaming a crowbar, a bat. Let's never let him ever say hello to Nazis in this country again. It is the responsibility of all of us, and this responsibility must be with the highest sensitivity and consistency. That is what I have to say, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Mr Minister, to come to the bill, you are right to change the provision of Article 272 of the Criminal Code for the possession of molotov and rightly reinstate it as a felony, because how normal those who react to a flood see it, to own the perpetrator molotov who is engaged in a crowd, committing violence or illegally in the private and public areas. It's self-evident. You are right to change Article 236 of the Criminal Code on active bribery of a clerk. You said so in the House too. All world transparency agencies could not believe that by a felony the former government had repaid it to a flood. We have become internationally resilient and it is no coincidence that in previous years our country has plummeted in the table for the assessment of international transparency.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u487	Finish it, Mr. Carraguni.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u488	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u489	Not in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u490	Because you are strongly criticised for prosecuting acts of infidelity against financial institutions, I would like to note two things: Firstly, that malicious infidelity remains maliciously unfaithful and will not be left behind in a flood. Her indulgence remains the same. We are not bringing provisions, as I mentioned earlier, on the active bribery of a staff member who is unnecessarily left overnight in a flood. Secondly, the explanatory statement to the amendment clearly states that, with this change in our country's economy, it will be relaunched, because - not to be foolish - banks will achieve their purpose of financing more consistently and always with the control of the Greek Bank of Greece's economy and especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who have not only had access to finance and loans for many years, but have seen banks as currency exchanges.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u491	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u492	I should like to conclude and just stress, Minister, that you have brought about changes which have brought about a solution to important problems in the functioning of justice, both by reintroducing the single appeal, which clearly accelerates the administration of justice and has been successfully tested in the past and by amending Article 14 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, so that the regional courts can function properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u493	Mr. Xanthopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u494	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, if the citizens' decision on 7 July is the only argument, it means political bankruptcy. Any argument put forward by the Opposition is answered by the verdict of 7 July. New Democracy's victory on 7 July responds to the problem of criminal codes and the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code. This is institutional intolerance, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. The whole Opposition has a reason. You will be confronted with it and you will not unilaterally invoke the outcome of 7 July, because this is an anti-democratic attitude and ultimately anti-democratic, dehydrating dialogue, narrating controversy and canceling the civilisation itself. On substance, we are debating today some of the provisions of the corpus of criminal law, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code. And here we have to say: the whole scientific community has praised the adoption of the codes, their content. Your reservations concern only the procedure, which is Parliament's procedure. It's been the last time. The government had the confidence of the House. It is right that this issue has nothing to do with the substance and the content of the codes. Indicative of the acceptance of the codes is the fact, as the Minister in committee admitted, that the majority of the committee remains the same, so the same people who recommended the codes, which the SYRIZA government has voted for, and even en bloc, and although some of these provisions have disagreed, the same people, the body of these people remains in the codes we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u495	The same people suggested changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u496	Sure. I have no objections. You told the committee, Minister, and I say it so that she doesn't think we have a scan here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u497	We didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u498	Not you. Let society not think that we have a scanner of the codes that SYRIZA brought on July 1st, but that the key log of the codes remains. What's the change? What is the government's intervention? It is an intervention that highlights the government's ideological profile, which is a conservative government. I read the Minister's statement from the paper. If you're wrong with the report, I'm wrong with you too, Minister. "We want these changes to meet the priorities - and I will say this directly - set by the New Democracy Government to tighten up the penalty framework and harmonise the new Criminal Code with the common sense of law." See, then, what a problem we are committing. Does the public feel that such an important legislation will shape the content of such an important piece of legislation? Since 1950 the previous Criminal Code has been in place. In 2019, we brought the new guy. Alas, if each time in the light and its pressure on the legal sense of law the House legislates. The opposite must be done. We need to be a step forward in forming consciences and influencing society. I would also like to say that these Criminal Codes, which have been so critical, today and for the next too many years, will be the guideline for the awarding of criminal justice to our country. They were voted on 1 July, applied, if applied, not applied for political and ideological reasons, you are running to amend some provisions to address your audience. The previous Members referred in detail to the individual provisions. I want to point out four directions. Why is social work not working today? Why should it be suspended until a new full list is put in place, with the result that citizens who cannot buy their sentences together in prisons and detentions? Can there not be an extension of the existing structures so that until you have the full framework of the structures that will accept parliamentary work, citizens can exercise this right, which is a right at a pan-European level, is deeply integrated into the liberal nature of the law and is our obligation from our integration into supranational organisations? We have heard the majority rapporteurs talk about terrorism. First of all, let us make this clear: what is voted on will apply from now on. Those who are involved in terrorist acts will not have the treatment provided for in the amendment to the Criminal Code. In your agony to highlight terrorism as the major problem, are travel criminalised? We're lawyers going to the audience. The rapporteur, Mrs Mera25, has said so very well. Do you realize that the issue of the ticket will be considered as a preparatory act? Do you understand what shivering you're opening? Do you realise in Criminal Law, which is a very strict system of rules of law, how is the scope of intervention inadmissible? Do you realize what we're going to do? I conclude with the issue of immunity to bank managers. You're on display. They have been recapitulated with the Greek people's money and in order to follow the process of infidelity, the exercise of criminal prosecution, it is necessary to indict the bank's officials. Do you realize how much we hurt citizens? Are these people, who have made a mistake, with each other, going to take each other's eye off? Is that what we're telling them? Is it not clear that, as far as a felony is concerned, the procedure envisaged so far must be followed? I'm hanging up. It is truly incomprehensible to me, but I imagine for the large majority the tragic history of blasphemy. Finally, Minister, at the last minute you realised that we cannot go back to previous decades. It would be a good thing if you were a conservative people's party with modernity embedded in your values, with the European acquis going through and permeating your approaches. Unfortunately, you are a party with extreme right-wing points of view, neoliberal doctrines, and from this legacy you can hardly get distracted. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u499	Mr Evangelos Syrigos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u500	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many colleagues have already mentioned some of the provisions of this bill, with more common reference to the transfer of molotov. This provision is about to deal with something that is clearly in breach of common sense. In a country which was frozen looking at the three victims of Marfin in May 2010, there are not any things that have been heard in this Chamber today about the arson mechanisms. From there on, let me refer to some of the individual provisions which have not received the same attention. Articles 57 and 104a define rules on public works. I would agree with the previous speaker that this is an extremely important issue. In Greece, you know, there's a strong antisociality. It's scattered everywhere. It is now typical of the road signs. Usually we know where we're going in an area and we don't look at them, but if you notice them, you'll be surprised to see them systematically destroyed, usually by young people who get used to writing on them or sticking stickers, usually football teams. The threat of imprisonment up to 12 months provided for in Article 10 of the Road Traffic Code is not dissuasive. On the contrary, it can deter the individual’s obligation to clean up with a spatula the sign that he used the last day with his company. Unfortunately, however, the conditions for social work are not yet mature in our country. For example, it is common secret that depending on the public service or the municipality of social work, it can be essential or typical, that is, whether someone is actually working or just going there waiting to spend the hours. Until we reach this new situation, this provision enables us to move in this direction in the future and leave this to the discretion of the judge. A Penal Code, ladies and gentlemen, reflects his time. For example, in the abolished Criminal Code there was a whole chapter, chapter 17, which was mentioned in the duel. It is obvious that there have been no wars in Greece for many decades and it has obviously been abolished. Accordingly, now, with the addition of paragraph 3 of Article 168 of the Criminal Code, it becomes criminalising the interruption or disruption of normal auctioning not only by the use of force, but also by illegal entry and stay in the area. Unfortunately these are situations that have arisen in recent years and need to be addressed. The same applies to the illegal entry of persons into public services areas which cause interruption or serious disruption in the conduct of a service. It's an arrangement that's trying to deal with the phenomenon of Ruvikon. Not minority, but marginal groups exploit loopholes in legislation and create impressions. Unfortunately, the stance of previous SYRIZA governments encouraged these groups. Let me remind you of what happened here in the House. In the first invasion of Parliament in April 2015, the then President of Parliament said: Are you upset because some protest? In the second invasion in July 2017, the invaders were placed in temporary detention to return as passengers with a police cage from the GDR to the parliament. The third invasion was a little different in May 2019. On the outside walls of the House, the traces of the red paints thrown by the "rubbicons" at that time appear to be seen. The course of Ruvikon in relation to the House, how we gradually go from one point to another more and more sharply, reminds me of a phrase of Heminway: When asking someone who was bankrupt, how he went bankrupt, he answered: At first - slowly and then very - very quickly. Something similar has also been done in the present case with the tolerance to the Ruvikon marginals. At first we went slowly and then we went very fast. That is what we are trying to stop under this provision of the law. Incidentally, I would like to make a brief comment on the issue of HEIs because I have heard it from other Members who are also academic. Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess to the fact that I was disappointed by the image of the police at the courtyard of the University of Economics. It's not her place there. He was obliged to go because a small group of young people - unknown how many of them were students at the University of Economics - decided to violate the decisions of the democratically elected Senate, break the lock and invade the university order and asylum. We must realise that the presence of the police - perhaps not likes some - in the courtyard of the AACC was to protect the true concept of asylum. Ladies and gentlemen, criminal legislation is an extremely serious matter. It is no coincidence that since the birth of the Greek state we had only three relevant laws. The first was in 1824, the "Remembrance of Criminals". The second was ten years later, in 1834, Maurer had built him, regent at the time, and he was based on the respective Bavaria law. The third was in 1950, the Criminal Code which we are actually amending now. The rule of the seriousness of criminal law - three legislations over almost two hundred years, which is objectively unique to a country with multi-legislative and parallel mislegislation - broke in June 2019, because the previous government showed unexplained violence to vote and put the Criminal Code into effect, and indeed in the middle of the election period. I listen very carefully to the protests from the Qualified Opposition on the provision of criminal prosecution for the offence of infidelity with regard to bank officials and especially those granting loans, in which case prior indictment is required, i.e. the affected person, the bank to file a press report against the bank executive. In my opinion, targeting is clear. This is a provision to facilitate banks in the settlement of red loans. I listen to it with caution, and I hear the most serious counter-protect that, otherwise, the loop of red loans will begin to flow into the market. Unfortunately, today's Critical Opposition forgets that with its great rush in the summer of 2019, it has affected a much larger number of criminal cases of economic crime or stock-raising fraud and we have had massive limitations on a number of serious crimes, such as tax evasion, non-payment of VAT, smuggling and all of them, by turning them from felony to misdemeanours. Ladies and gentlemen, because we are not addressing people and because five months is a short time to forget what happened at the time, it is good that the tons of right-wing, about all these things and to realise that we have before us an extremely important piece of legislation, the fourth of the birth of the new Greek state, and we have to face it with due respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u501	Mr Anastasios Prussakis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u502	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the amendment of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure is coming to restore the balance between the law and the public about the right of citizens. The regulations it contains correct the distortions created by the controversial provisions of the outgoing government, which caused the science of the law and the intelligence of the citizens. The new bill restores the role of the Criminal Code as a real tool for the award of justice. This reform of our criminal-procedural system is coordinated by the development of social structures, needs, the development of sciences. It is a product of serious scientific dialogue with the academic and scientific community, as well as the recommendations of judicial associations and legal associations. Terrorism, activism, invasions in public buildings, violations of home peace - particularly at the border - are daily news, but it also causes fear and fear. Manufacture and use of explosives, releases of polyisoviols, etc. they were treated with ideoscopy, bias and in the end with incompetence. Finally, on terrorist acts and organisations, our country will now respond to the decisions and directives of the European Union and of the Council of Europe on specific crimes. Furthermore, with the regulations on the offence of beneficial bribery, we are in line with the obligations laid down in our relevant convention with the OSCE, but also with GRECO - a Group of States against the Corruption of the Council of Europe. The proposed amendments improve the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to become more operational and to contribute to the proper functioning of the courts and to the award of criminal justice. In the proposed changes we are fair and brave in claiming transparency and equality. The crimes of bribery and the corruption of political persons are now included by the State Secretarys. At the same time, the wording is harmonized so that these provisions can apply to Members as well as to all our duties, while at the same time the Minister of Justice is able to suspend persecution for bribery and bribery. Minister, in October 2018 with a joint written question signed by Mr Panagiotopoulos, Minister of National Defence today, and former MP Dramas, Mr Kyriazides, had proposed to the government in question and to the appropriate Minister for Amendments to the Criminal Code, which unfortunately ignored and despised. A copy of these proposals I present today in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios (Tsos) and Mr Anastassios (Tsos) presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This question is a great criminal material which can be used and we can legislate primarily on invasions that disturb home peace. It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen of all groups, to coincide with this threat which can happen to any household, and we should bear in mind that when this crime is committed by two or more perpetrators with damaged attributes with guns or sharp objects that can cause fatal injury, this should also be taken into account in the imposition of the penalty, but also in its execution. I am putting this experience out of hand, and indeed, out loud and I believe, Minister, that with your sensitivity and our Government, you too, have taken half of the lead in legislation, but you have accepted my suggestion. Today the New Democracy restores self-evident. Article 5 adds an indent (d) for the offence of theft, which was subjected to a flood when it is committed by two or more persons. It becomes a felony, as a gang recommendation arises when two or more perpetrators commit this crime. Illegality is restored and with the addition of Article 94, which deals with crimes committed by prisoners during their leave. The penalty should now be executed whole after the execution of the penalty mainly imposed. It goes without saying that a man who is released at the stage of the creation of a penalty must prove that he has been accepted by the state's penitentiary policy and regretted his actions. It is not possible to forgive the execution of new criminal acts at this stage. Ladies and gentlemen, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure are being modernised in the correctest, more coordinated way both with the codes based on European directives and in line with the common sense. Let us be accused of strictening the Criminal Code. The answer is the arrest of terrorists released by the well-known Act of Fridaypoulou. In fact, you electionally completed this law on the last day with known codes. You have caused great damage to the implementation of the law and dismantled the executives of the law enforcement authorities. The Greeks chose the fairness and the election of justice. We and with this bill fulfil the Greeks' expectations of restoring reason. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u503	The next speaker is Mr Christos Kelles from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u504	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when there is no punishment, lawlessness and crime are favoured. Four and a half years now Greek society has been confronted with insecurity and violence. Many times we had invoked the previous government for the impunity, for the Law of Friday, as well as for the fact that it did not let the police do its job while caring for the ears of the various reasonings. For four months, public order has been progressively restored to every public space, every neighborhood, throughout the country. Subsequently, this draft law comes to ensure that what we achieve in the field of public security is at the level of the legal order. And since the instability of the sense of security presupposes the normality of socio-economic life, I shall begin with the provisions concerning molotovs and the disruption of the common peace. No more lawlessness in universities and in urban centres! Of course, the construction, supply and possession of explosives and bombs by a perpetrator involved in a number of violences against persons or things is a felony, illegally invading foreign homes or other property, on the basis of Article 189 of the Criminal Code. This is the reality and we will do everything we can to ensure that there is never again Marfin! No more terrorism of the various reasonings, the spasms and the burning of shops! Citizens pay taxes and require their protection from the state. Equally important for the safety of citizens both in urban centres and in the region are the provisions relating to theft. As provided for in the bill, this offence when it is committed by two or more perpetrators, is considered to be a creation of a criminal organisation and will be converted into a felony punishable by imprisonment of up to 10 years in accordance with Article 187 of the Criminal Code. Moreover, the years of elaboration of the sentences of those who have been sentenced to life are growing. In particular, they should complete twenty-two years of actual imprisonment instead of the seventeen to date. In the same direction, the provision is that the penalty for a felony or delinquency which has been detained during his leave is a full one. Furthermore, transparency in public life shall be strengthened. The provisions of Article 3 extend the scope of penalties relating to the bribery of political persons and the bribery, while active bribery of state officials is converted into a felony. In addition, national legislation on corruption in international business transactions is in line with the relevant OECD Convention. And I come to two issues, Minister, which I have pointed out for a long time, and I would like to thank you, but also to congratulate you for including them in this draft law. The first is the tightening up of penalties aimed at enhancing road safety and reducing road deaths. This is a matter that we have prioritised in the Special Standing Committee on Road Safety and in accordance with Article 4(3), at least 10 years' imprisonment is laid down in the case of the provoking of one or more road deaths due to drivers who are drunk, under the influence of alcohol, due to driving manoeuvres, and other acts that are unacceptable and condemnable. Our aim in the committee that I have the honour of chairing is to strengthen road education, infrastructure, police, but legislation has to be tightened up and it is important that it is combined with the provisions of paragraph 2 on road safety. The second issue concerns Directive 2017/541 to which I referred a month ago in Strasbourg to the Council of Europe as head of the Greek delegation to the Mediterranean Interparliamentary Assembly. So I stressed there, Minister, that education should be criminalised for the purpose of conducting terrorist activities and that it should be incorporated into all the Penal Codes of the European States and our partners from the Mediterranean and the Middle East, since it detects and prevents terrorist activities. In addition, we are called upon to ensure that legislative interventions, such as the provisions introduced by the Minister with the amendment, with a general number of 80 and a special 3, which concerns the tightening up of penalties for the illegal transfer of migrants, are adopted and promoted accordingly by all our partners in Europe and the Mediterranean, in order to tackle coordinated traffickers who exploit human misery. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are making another commitment. By voting in favour of this draft law, violations and crime are decisively addressed, ensuring the uninterrupted functioning and development of socio-economic life. The amendment of the Criminal Code and the Code of Civil Procedure strengthens the work of the competent authorities and the results will be sustainable and visible over a long period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u505	Mr Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u506	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today that all of Europe is honouring the anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, the slogan in this House about the bad right and the work of the law to achieve its policy is at hand in our ears. However, in vain, because the people are deaf in the pursuit of the left-wing and useless slogan of the political life of our country. The law can be a human creation and have imperfections, but the Greek society also requires its implementation and its existence. Effective treatment of crime and terrorism are the Greeks' dominant demands over the last few decades, which has also been reflected in the election result, whether you like it or not, ladies and gentlemen. Today, the Government seeks, first of all, to correct all the problems that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government created in the specific area of Criminal Law by modifying the relevant codes one day before the previous Parliament closed down, first and foremost in those provisions which it has managed to introduce for the protection of parts of the audience's election, in such a intensity that it overshadowed the work, a work of a serious nature of the Prefecture, which had worked for its drafting, as well as the huge mistakes and omissions in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which were introduced by the provisions at the time. The main thing is that it seeks to restore the principles of public interest which sought to circumvent the codes, as I said before, just before the July elections. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The public interest, therefore, which is projected to be public in criminal law and the criminal collapsing that is always attempting precisely this size, here is the value of the present amendment of the codes. After all, the task of the Criminal Law is to protect, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental values of society, which are essential to guarantee social peace. Thus, the main purpose of the Criminal Law is to limit the abuse of the State against individual freedoms. Equally, however, it is also important to protect individual freedoms within an attempted process of this kind. It has been exposed and at risk of individual freedoms in recent years that you have been trying, Mr Minister, to protect themselves today - and we therefore congratulate you - through these amendments to the Criminal Code. For example, I mention the re-enforcement of the criminal offences against the use of explosives when it comes to terrorist acts or the stricter penalties for offences committed during prisoners' permits - we have also experienced them - or the activation of the provisions on active corruption offences, in accordance with our international obligations and international conventions. In the other part, the changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure to restore the mistakes introduced, as I said before, are the provisions which attempt to speed up the so-called criminal procedure, which is also the great issue for our country, a demanding and deeply developmental one. In conclusion, I would like to focus a little on unjust criticism, in my view, of the prosecuting of the economic crime of infidelity. I say, Minister, 'just' for four main reasons. Firstly, why the basis is actually set for the banks to finally be able to effectively regulate the debts of the citizens to them. Moreover, the Greek banks are effectively controlled by both the Bank of Greece and the European level by SSM. By voting for the HERAKLIS project, we will have an effective management of non-performing loans, with a 40% reduction. Were you, Mr SYRIZA's gentlemen, not those who gave immunity to foreign funds and to the executives of the U.S.A., and today you are asking for the change? Secondly, given that basic economic crimes are being persecuted by imprisonment, such as fraud and embezzlement, what is the reason why the crime of infidelity, which includes a share of business choice, must be persecuted worse and persecuted on its own? Thirdly, it is the self-determination that has been in force for sixty years and has not brought judgments to justice. Sixty-nine years this law, by which someone is automatically persecuted, has not brought judgments. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, I declare that I am voting for the bill and amendments, as they come to Parliament today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u507	Please have the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u508	Thank you very much, Mr President. A little - it has all been set up, it has been discussed since the morning, even though the matter is not so easy. It is very great when it comes to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, that is, the country's criminal system. However, I think there is a phenomenon that I feel needs to highlight throughout the present process. You will normally be proud, Minister. I think that no other Minister has had the pleasure and honour of having so many Members, women and men, from the government majority defending the bill. But is that to your honor? Is it to be happy? Because in all the social bills participation was dramatically smaller, and here we must put the world in prison, where we must create a state of oppression, where the earth must tremble us, where everyone must be punished for everything, to show that this is the real authority, a multitude of MPs, everyone has come almost, above half. It's very characteristic. Right - because she's right - by law, order and repression. He's coming, it's obvious. It is being recorded in a very fascinating way today. It's not something that lusts us, it's not something that makes us curious. The state of the right was always a police state. We know that, the Greek people have lived through it, the Greek society has lived through it, as much as silhouettes and, in the meantime, if with social struggles and developments, the right-wing governments have been forced to make their political choice. But that's the way it is. Consider the committee of the top legal systems, which no one has doubted, which have worked for years with successive compositions to create this new harmony of the criminal system of the country, the Criminal Code and consumed many years of successive approaches! Because it is not a sum of arbitraryly pacified articles of the Criminal Code. It is a system which is in harmony with the necessary depreciation and punishment and the necessary safeguarding and safeguarding of rights, of individual, collective, social and democracy. That's the criminal system. It's not what bothers us, we bring a law and an article and we criminalize it. This is a caricature of the criminal system and it has nothing to do with democracy, absolutely none of it! It is very characteristic that this harmonious set proposed by the top Greek lawyers through the processing of years and which was voted on by our government before it was even tested, before any gaps were sought, some contradictions, some weaknesses - because obviously nothing is perfect and the desired harmony is always called for - before that occurs, the ruling party, the New Democracy today feels the need to show that there is as a party of enforcement, as a government of power, as a government of punishment. Do not laugh, ladies and gentlemen, it is demonstrated worldwide and over time that strict regulation does not mean correcting crime and reducing crime, no matter what! Most of the time the tightening of the criminal system and the repression has upgraded the methods of crime and creates greater expertise in crime than the legal order seeks to shape. You don't know that? Haven't you ever thought about it? Haven't you ever seen it? Is it that simple? Because something is bothering you - and I may be bothering me as a violation of behaviour and the whole society - the immediate answer is to increase penalties? Where and where? Is that the answer and the solution? And we criminalize all behavior? Of course, in this incredible appeal to create such a strengthening of criminal rigour, we discover and legislate and things that are positive, but which are already legislated since June, such as the famous strictness - right in order - for the criminal liability of drivers when they lead to a situation of drunkenness or under the influence of drugs and cause fatal accidents with major consequences for human life or human status. We have done so, ladies and gentlemen. And they come now and show that this is a new regulation. However, there is still a debate in the field of road safety, the very timely one - and we also have a responsibility, because we have not rushed more quickly to cover it - the strictness of the penalties, in a study and in a reasonable manner, of the drivers who leave their victims helplessly. That's why we're not having any conversation. What's more timely? To criminalize the behaviour of some protesters for auctions, because perhaps February or March will you proceed to house seizures in massive terms and mass ways and prepare for that? Is that right? Is it fairer? Is it more timely? Instead of seeing how the auctions will not lead to people losing their homes, we see the side of further tightening, so that the state will not be ready and no protester enters the office of the notary who will make the auction? Is that the first priority? And from there on, the story with the "bugs" begins, with terrorism, with one another. Is it the same thing - and I am so sorry, Mr President - that it is the same thing to talk about the bottle storehouse or the masks in the basement of ASE with the student's mass mobilisation to defend their university and function as they think and invade the MATs within the university to implement - they say - the legality?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u509	Mr. Dritsa, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u510	What is the legality of putting the MATs in ASEAN? Mercy! You have nothing to do with democracy and democratic legitimacy. But you like it very much with the repression and the violent imposition of your preservatives tonight. You won't be allowed by society!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u511	Mr. Constantine Barkas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u512	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today there was an integrated debate on the changes brought by the Government to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the new Criminal Code. But let me also mention other things which, in my opinion, are hidden in the changes that we are discussing today. So let me make a historical regression. Once the leadership of your party, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, had said that he would never cooperate with the extremes, then characterising the extremes of LAOS and the MPs who participated in his parliamentary group. Not only did your President-in-Office then, but also the whole leadership say: 'We will not cooperate with the extremes'. Today the extremities have taken over your party. They're Vice Presidents of the New Democracy, they're the top ministers of your New Democracy and your Government. And today all the Members who went through this Step one - one - and one - defended these extremes. I've only got one word to tell you: Well done! "The wood is an element of compelling," said the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Vorides, one of the extremes today. A few years ago, it was a basic component of the limbs I referred to before. Indeed, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, what should the police do to the young man who brought axe and chasing all his political opponents - neo-democrats, left-wing and centred - in the 1990s? How should he react? Can you tell us? The very dangerous position of Mr Voridis as regards democracy is the political path on which the New Democracy is walking, and in particular the leadership of the New Democracy Party, because I can recognise that there are also mild positions within this enthusiasm, which, if you like, actually claim our recognition. But unfortunately, ideological hegemony belongs to the extremities. You are, however, Members of the New Democracy, expensive to pie and cheap to flour. You refer to changes in the Criminal Code regarding molotovs. Mr. Minister, what did you say when the Macedonians rocked the SYRIZA MPs' houses for the Prespecies Agreement and fired molotov bombs at their homes? What did you say? Or, if you will, remember what the New Democracy, the leadership of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, had to say about violence against SYRIZA MPs who defended the Prespecies Agreement? Kuveda hadn't said, Minister. But then populism led you to the mosques of the Macedonians and embraced these views and these actions. What do you do, however, Ministers, with this bill? Through the changes you propose to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure you propose things of immunity to those who helped you choose, win the authority, that is, the bankers. Of course, I will remind the House that this is not the first time. You had done so before in the period 2012-2015 with an amendment, at dawn, to an unrelated bill of three MPs, who then gave immunity to the leaders of the banks. Now you're coming to do the same again. You release suspect property and in many cases accused of serious economic and non-crime committed by the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority by Criminal Actions. The reasoning is that they have been committed for over eighteen months. And because, Minister, in the objections of the SYRIZA Members, you also understood that this is absurd, you have today brought a transitional provision stating that within three months the decision of the authority should be validated by the judge or the judiciary, depending on where the criminal case is - indeed - the case has been committed. Very good. But we are talking, Minister, about cases which are too large in volume - and so in the quarter it is minimal - and, secondly, in the quarter, if the decision of the authority with which the assets are committed is not sent, then they are automatically released. Do we agree? So again, Minister, you're driving to release the evidence. In this way, the recovery of crime products will be definitively cancelled by the public once this provision is implemented. The assets of suspects of serious crimes will be attributed to the years before, and the actions of serious economic crimes will be favoured. Mr President, to conclude, I would like to address the leadership of the New Democracy, the Members of Parliament, the Government. We, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, will stand against the police state that you are going to set up. We will defend individual and social rights. We will defend the society, the students, the asylum and all those who feel in the face of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u513	Ms Anna Mani - Papademiriou from New Democracy closes the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u514	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, an issue that has always been high on the New Democracy agenda was the reintroduction of the sense of security to the average Greek citizen. Today, the Government of New Democracy, faithful to its pre-election commitment, introduces to the plenary session this draft law, which amends controversial provisions of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, provisions which were a product of pre-legislative and which had a direct improvement, as they had created many problems in their implementation, first of all, to the law-makers themselves, and this is not a finding of our own, the Government and the Parliamentary majority, but was the view put forward by the representatives of the bodies, the judges, the prosecutors and lawyers at the meeting of the committee responsible. This was inevitable, since the SYRIZA Government chose to bring these amendments to an end one day before the House closed, without the involvement of the other parties, without the time for adequate parliamentary dialogue, and thus without the important work of the Prefecture Committee. And it's not just sloppy. The most important thing is that many provisions are incompatible with the public on law and with the problems and needs of modern Greek society. The government and the accelerating Ministry, with this bill, are effectively dealing with these problems with a number of provisions, which not only receive acceptance of the overwhelming majority of Greeks, but are also years of demand. I will focus on specific provisions from them: First of all, it turns into a felony theft made by two or more people, who were organized to make thefts, regardless of the value of thefts. This regulation is correct and fully justified in today's era and reality, where the burglaring and theft in houses, in shops and even in poor neighborhoods, is a daily phenomenon with unfortunately growing rate. Of course, the value of thieves, when broken into a house, plays no role. We've seen so many horrific incidents with the elderly, with families and young children. And while one would expect that such an arrangement would have the absolute acceptance, there have also been objections from the Quaestorial Opposition to the strictness of the provision. I would point out, however, that this is not a mere form of theft or burglary, but a distinguished theft, which is a distinct case where the organised group, the dome, the joint project and the common purpose are elements which fully justify the malicious form of the act. After all, we must not forget that a penalty has not only a punishing character, but also a preventive and deterrent one. It is certain that the imported provision will restrict the phenomenon of thefts and burglaries. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation, which is also a prerequisite for Greek society, to tighten up the legislative framework for the construction, possession and use of explosives and molotovs. The reconversion of these crimes into a felony is self-evident, especially given the hundreds of tragic incidents. We don't need any other burnt cars, stores, police injuries, and how much more lost human lives. And here the criticism of the opposition to the occupation of molotov, frankly, goes beyond common sense. Tell us, someone who carries molotov bombs into his backpack, even in the middle of concentrations, why is it doing so. And under no circumstances can the molotov bomb be destined for use other than the attack, ladies and gentlemen. And it has been developed on the part of the Officerial Response that we are allegedly punishing the occupation of molotovs, but that in no case stands, as this is not a alleged will. It is well known that in many cases from our Criminal Code, the mere possession of drugs is being punished. And, of course, it is not an argument from the Qualified Opposition that, since the possession of firearms or kalashnikov is not a felony, it cannot also be the possession of molotovs. I would like to point out to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the possession of a well-known gun or other weapon, subject to conditions, is also a felony. This is Law No 2168 of 93, Article 15(1), ladies and gentlemen. Explain to me. Of course, I'll wait for your explanations. In addition to this, I would like to refer to another important regulation that implements the political commitment made by the New Democracy Government to the Greek people for full transparency, to every aspect of the public sector and to the absolute fight against corruption. I am referring to the conversion of active bribery into a felony in order to bring our country into line with its obligations towards the OECD and GRECO. The Government of New Democracy will have zero tolerance on corruption and corruption and corruption crimes, also carried out by political persons, including the Deputy Prime Minister and MPs. Well, full transparency. No tolerance to corruption, no matter where it comes. Unequivocal provisions for a modern, European rule of law, provisions that restore and strengthen citizens' confidence in the political system. I close with the following thought: The citizens of a country feel secure when they have a coordinate state toward them, which legislates fairly, without ideology, when laws and penalties are implemented and are consistent with the public on the matter of law. Greek citizens can now feel safe with the Government of New Democracy, which, through the amendments and the legislative framework it introduces, shows that it will show zero tolerance to the phenomena and situations of the recent past, which have shaken Greek society and exposed our country internationally. Ladies and gentlemen, since my position - I will borrow a legal term here - is also the audience of the meeting, I will invite you to vote in favour of this draft law, reminding you of the words of the Roman politician and philosopher Seneka, who said that 'whoever does not make a crime, while he can do so, encourages his commitment'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u515	The circle of speakers has been completed and we are now entering the rapporteurs and special speakers. Mr. Lappas from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u516	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I have not tabled it, I forgot, a letter from the FATF to the correspondent in Greece of the "CNN Greece". Of course, it speaks of protests, it speaks of reflection - I am simply referring to your regulation on the release of assets - which are committed by the assets accounts - after the expiry of the '9 plus nine months' due to serious malicious acts. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Secondly, I was very pleased that so many doctors today talked about the Criminal Code, the subject of my specialty, Minister, you know it's "medical negligence". I remembered that, according to Kentrov's pyramid, in the first ranking of sciences - Mr Javaras knows - the law was classified as humanitarian sciences - open a parentheses, so codes and provisions must be centred on human beings - and medical science in natural science. This was before 1975. After 1975, Mr Javarras, following the incorporation of Kelsen's theory into German literature of legal science, medicine and law are now part of humanitarian sciences and I was very pleased that doctors and lawyers became one today. Manoledakis was saying, Mr. Javara, what is criminal science and he stated that on the basis of Kelsen's theory, he is the scientific love for the principle of tolerance. Mr. Javarra, I'm dedicating it to you. So this principle should govern all our interventions in the Criminal Codes. Minister, what didn't we notice? You said before that Article 65 of Law 4472 only concerns bankruptcy proceedings and special liquidation. Here's what you missed, maybe we missed. The last paragraph of Article 3. All of this applies to restructuring and derecognition of loans, debts, debts under bilateral agreements, between credit institutions and debtor. In other words, for loans that say restructuring, loan arrangements for bankruptcy and special winding-up, Article 65 is extended and in the differences between credit institutions. So, if we repeat the regulation of Article 65, you will be fully covered, since the three-member committee, three-sevens, to prosecute the criminal prosecution at the bank of Greece, which is about what Mr Kastanides said about the prosecutor, but I say that it is more valid and more secure to go to the three-seat committee than sevens, it covers the problem fully, and I think it is being resolved. I close and tell you that today, by incorporating all these provisions into the Criminal Code, let everyone have his record - I wish the Criminal Code, as it is implemented in total, excluding everyone from their own record, really solve social problems, because this is his mission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u517	On behalf of Mrs. Giannakopoulou's Change Movement, will Mr. Loverdes speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u518	I will not speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u519	Nobody's talking. Very good, we're moving on. Mr. Mylonakis from the Greek Solution resigns.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u520	Mr President, no one quits. Whoever quit, they quit. They're done. Minister, the President of Greek Solution told you in his speech. What we want to say to you again is this. I think you made a serious mistake. You put the three modifications in one. Three in one! You put Article 336. What for? We mixed up rape along with poaching - you made an effort, the truth is this - and with the credit institution that will lose. Why didn't you bring her separately, Minister? We told you, why unify it? We told you. We also see the following. As far as rape is concerned, we see the death penalty for the isoviruses only in case two people attempt and more and more. So, we have to hurry a little kid from two people, have death to be punished for life, with the strictest sentences? Who says these things? Whose brain is that? We told you that we would vote only if they were separate amendments. Not then, from the Greek Solution, because what has been done at the moment is foolishness. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u521	Mrs Adamopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u522	Minister, with the amendments you have tabled today, even if we wanted to vote in favour of some articles, unfortunately we cannot, because you are integrated into a single framework, within an article in specific heterogeneous articles. We would also like to vote in favour of the article on the stricter penalties for rape, but within this article the article on infidelity, which is now going to pass through Article 405, an article on which we have already placed ourselves. Today the European Commission stated that it was Greece's slander that the government should try to provide immunity, impunity and felony. There's a post. With regard to the immunity and impunity provided by that provision precisely in malicious acts, it is not possible for the public prosecutors to be able, on their own initiative, to investigate such acts which have a clear bearing on the public interest. They are not acts that offend individual goods. Therefore, given that, within an article, heirly provisions are in place, which have nothing to do with each other, and this is a serious legislative practice, we are obliged not only to vote against at first, but also to vote against most of the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u523	The Minister of Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u524	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the debate on the changes to the Criminal Code has been concluded, through a process which is not very common in the Greek Parliament. And I say this because, despite the differing views, the truth is that there has been a very serious debate with tons and in a sense that gives rise to a serious parliamentary practice. However, there are some points I cannot avoid. My view is that many of the colleagues were not informed. They have not even followed the debate that has been held by the relevant parliamentary committee so far. They came prepared with a text, did not even watch what had evolved since the beginning of the debate and had to stay in that initial preparation, without taking into account that many of those who took care to point out had already been established. Another point is that many colleagues, unfortunately, have moved into the logic of contradictions, because it is a contradiction, ladies and gentlemen, of the Opposition - particularly of the Officerial Response - to say that you are in favour of security and legitimacy and that you still believe that whoever has the molotovs in a purse back on his back, is simply walking them. Because you're saying the same thing again, but in other words. It is a contradiction to invoke European law - and I have heard a colleague from SYRIZA invoking American law - and at the same time reject it. It is inconsistent to invoke morality, when you in your own Criminal Code - because these articles were yours, not all of them, but those were yours - you have made sure that you were looting and felony fraud and misappropriation and expose our country, by attacking active bribery. Is that what you're going to say, ladies and gentlemen? Do you have any reason at this time to abandon the government for a regulation that, to a large extent, you have tried to do so too, when you have created conditions of this kind so that our country has been exposed? At some point, those who hold the sword of morality must take their responsibility as well. During the past period, Greece has been dispersed into all international organizations, in GRECO, in the OECD, in the Council of Europe. Is that why you have something to say or are you just coming to give, is it supposedly, your best self in a act of supposed morality when you've forgotten a whole lot of other things? But you know, when one considers that there is no criminalisation of one’s way of flying a molotov bomb, when one considers it unacceptable to turn the subordinate conditional dismissal for the life of seventeen out of seventeen to twenty-two years, and when one does not have a positive comment to say that we are tightening the sentences for the rapists of minors, for those who are handling these innocent souls and when one has nothing to say about why we are finally equating those who are driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs and who have the responsibility for the death of some of their fellow people, with those who have actually expressed themselves in a similar way through a particular process, then we are talking about a different policy and not just an approach. We are, perhaps, talking about a feeling that another is the law of some people who may believe something specific and have an ideological reference and another is the law that concerns the whole of society. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the entire time we discussed the Criminal Code was not to accept that we are trying with consensus to create at least conditions for a better structure of a new Criminal Code. And it is not me, nor anyone on the part of the government who has refused that the philosophy of the current Criminal Code is a philosophy that exists in all European countries and to which we agree. We've been talking about it all along. Resurrecting and saying that we have adopted a philosophy that we have accepted, and perhaps this is something that constitutes the overall acceptance of your "Chairman's Code", rather it exposes you, when you come to a greater contradiction at the same time. On the one hand, you are exposing the work of the Legislative Committee and, on the other, you are judging the changes that the Legislative Committee itself has made to propose. Where are you, really? Where is your reality? However, some data have also been created here, if you want, in the near future, to change the specific, controversial articles of the Criminal Code, on the one hand, with a pre-election commitment to Greek citizens, unless you think that 41% of the New Democracy's party achieved in the last elections is not legalisation. Because that's probably the way you understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u525	You didn't even get 40%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u526	But besides all this, do you know that your Penal Code already produces results? Do you know they're being released to the bayon barpinites? Do you know that many cases, which have dealt with public opinion, have had such an outcome that posed questions and concerns to Greek citizens?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u527	Is the law good or isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u528	That is the reality, Mr Janakopoulou, and you know it very well. So these phenomena must be dealt with and healed, and that is exactly what the government is trying to do at this point in time. But I think you actually know her better than anyone else. To continue to be hypocrisy through a bid of arguments, which you know very well that contradicts what is really happening, I think that it is not good practice either for political confrontation or for the message that we must send from the Greek Parliament to the Greek citizens. I could refer to many issues. I think that the issue of social work is exhausted. I don't know how long I still have to say the same things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u529	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u530	I will also tell you, since the President of the Greek Solution made a reference to issues relating to the Military Criminal Code, that there is another the Criminal Code and the Military Criminal Code. They're different entities. You spoke of a number of specific issues. For the auctions to say again what I have reiterated in committee. There are other civil servants and the civil servants who need to be protected. I come to the last two issues, which I think are now the two controversial issues of political controversy. Unfortunately, you have left the Chief of Staff Response, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to report with a question, which he probably delayed to the Prime Minister, since he could have done so last week and had the debate taken precedence over it, rather than retrospectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u531	Is it going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u532	Of course it will. This is parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u533	Is he coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u534	You know very well that we do not deny this process. That's the difference. Let's see one of the five points that the Chief of Police has asked in his question. It speaks of Article 86 and of not including an interpretative statement in the Constitutional Review. Ladies and gentlemen, aren't you the Review House? Shouldn't you take the lead? Has this debate not really been exhausted in the Constitutional Review Committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u536	Isn't he exhausted? I think these answers have been received. It says in the second point of his question, Mr. Tsipras, that the legislative framework is provided under Law 4472/2017 in order to regulate the immunity of bank managers. Do you really know that there are many such cases that have been dealt with so far? Do you know that? And why a more brave step, which escapes from bankruptcy law and relates to the regulation of red loans, couldn't it be within your own options?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u537	Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u538	Mr President, I asked for ten minutes from the beginning. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 553-555]] You know, ladies and gentlemen, the contradiction, when it comes to repeating it, also proves the real weakness, and unfortunately this is something that concerns you to a very large extent. We have essentially expressed the fact that, at the point where the Greek economy is located, the reforms that have been initiated and red loans must be regulated. As long as the rift breaks of self-prosecuting over the bank and financial institutions, this is impossible. Finally, once again you have been inexperienced and have been in exactly the same way as the Chief of Staff of the Opposition. I have told you since Monday that there will be a transitional provision for the freezing of assets, which was nine plus nine months, and I am surprised that you either did not understand it or kept it for the end. Why do we have nine plus nine, Mr. Janakopoulos? Are you aware of this? Firstly, because at some point we have to be a European country. It is not possible for different authorities to have different time limits for asset freezing. Do you know that the D.A. has an asset commitment of nine plus nine months? Do you know that he has no pending case? Why should the same not be the case and where does the Greek citizen's right to defend, when it has committed assets since 2012, 2013, 2014, since 2015? At some point, we must understand that we must also harmonise European legislation, but also, we must harmonise key times, which you, Mr Lappa, know best about. The timing of personal retention, before being charged, is eighteen months. So we had to harmonize time as well and be absolutely consistent with a basic obligation of the state towards any Greek citizen. Now, all the other things you have put me with the correspondence of journalists with the specific European agency, etc. I think that to a large extent they are responding and I can assure you that the government has made the necessary moves and communications so that such issues are not pending and that they do not raise any questions at all. In the fourth point, Mr Tsipras wonders whether the loans granted to New Democracy, PASOK and the well-known media are included in this logic of impunity. Ladies and gentlemen, how long have you really done a committee of inquiry into the parties' loans? Where'd you end up? Are you going to answer us, so we can understand? Because if we should only support a account in the end, because that is what this is all about, you realise that the real debate is being defined. And finally, in the fifth point, the Honourable Chief of Officerial Response mentions one, rather, forbidden term. It speaks of banking institutions, which have been repeatedly recapitalisationed. In fact, I felt that there were crocodile tears from some colleagues earlier. You spoke in a disgraceful way about the recapitalisations of banking institutions. Do you remember that one of the three was made on your days? Have you forgotten? At some point, I repeat, you must show the necessary responsibility and the necessary seriousness. Who goes back to populism, Mr Janakopoulos, I think it is more obvious to all Greek citizens. If, indeed, we want the Greek citizens, in voting for the changes to a new Criminal Code - which we all want to have a success and to be implemented - to feel that there is a serious state against them, this responsibility should be shared between all the political parties. Finally, I repeat something that I said at the last meeting of the committee. The intention of the Ministry of Justice is to set up a monitoring committee essentially to monitor the results of the new Criminal Code. I think that at least the Vice-Presidents, who are legal - the Members of the Co-Population are aware - at the same time they will recognise the great importance of a committee which, after a sufficient period of time, will see exactly the results of the implementation of the new Criminal Code. Here we will all be in order to be able to reconcile any necessary or necessary changes which will be demonstrated at the time by the work and results of this committee. With these considerations, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you, although I think that the parties are in place, to vote in favour of the bill on the changes to the new Criminal Code and, of course, to be able to conclude a serious and proper legislative initiative. You know, the last contradiction is the fact that you forsaken us for a bad legacy. You, ladies and gentlemen? You who changed during the debate the Criminal Code? Do you know that the process of codes does not anticipate changes during the debate? Do you know that you changed the Criminal Code that you brought during the conversation? That a few days later you brought an act of legislation and changed twenty-eight points to the Criminal Code? Are you saying that? We have done an absolutely exhausting parliamentary procedure, we have taken care at all levels of both the committee responsible and the hearing of the bodies, but also of the debate in plenary in the Greek Parliament to keep every measure and every, if you like, a check provided for in the parliamentary procedure. I think that is all that Greek citizens see and understand. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that with greater coolness and greater responsibility, even at the last minute, you can revise some of the things you have actually shaped earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u539	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: 'Amendments to the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and related provisions' is finalised. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u541	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u543	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u545	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u546	Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Justice: "Amendments to Criminal Code, Code of Criminal Procedure and related provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. A request has been submitted for a roll-call vote by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group on Article 9 and on the Ministerial Amendment number 80 and special 3, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u547	I will also read out the list of signatories to the request for the roll-call vote of members of the SYRIZA to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for its submission. Mr Alexiadis Tree. Here you go. Mr. Vernardakis Christoforos. Here you go. Mr. Vitsas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Voutsis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Dr. Theodoros. Here you go. Mr. Drasakis John. Here you go. Mr. Thraniotis Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Kalamatian Dionysius - Charalambos. Here you go. Mrs. Cassimatis Nina. Here. Mrs. Kafantari Charula (Hara). Here. Mr. Red Vassiliou. Here you go. Mr. Lappas Spydonas. Here you go. Mr. Mamoulakis Charalambos. Here you go. Mr. Marcus Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Muzalas John. Here you go. Mr. Barcas Constantine. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote by members of the SYRIZA. We are therefore adjourning the sitting for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u548	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. An electronic roll-call vote will be held on Article 9 and the Ministerial Amendment number 80 and a special 3 of the Ministry of Justice's draft "Amendments to Criminal Code, Code of Criminal Procedure and related Rules", in accordance with the provisions of Rules 72 and 72A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Please make sure that you have voted for both areas included in the vote as soon as the system is opened. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. We would remind the rapporteurs and special speakers of the draft law to remain in the Chamber at the end of the roll-call vote to vote on the other articles and amendments. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u549	I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u550	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters from my fellow Members have been sent to the Bureau. Christos Stagioura, Emmanuel Konsola and Theodorou Karaoglou, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote "NAI". Members' letters, and so on, have been sent to the Bureau. Irene - Eleni Agathopoulos, Kalliopi Vetta, Konstantinos Zourari, Nikolaos Igoumenidis, Euphoria (Frosh) Karasarlidou, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Theophistis (Petis) Perkas, Panagiotis (Panou) Scouroliakou, Olympia, Telioridou, Stavros Arachovitis and Ephes Ahcioglou, who know us that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote "OR". These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u551	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u552	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the result of a roll-call vote on Article 9 and the Ministerial Amendment number 80 and a special 3 on the bill. A total of 251 Members voted on Article 9. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 156 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', 87 Members voted. 'PARON' were voted 8 MPs. Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. The Ministerial Amendment No 80 was adopted by a total of 249 Members. In addition to the amendment 'NAI', 154 Members voted. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer to this question. 'PARON' voted no one. Consequently, the Ministerial Amendment under a general number of 80 and a special 3 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as an article itself. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u553	At the end of the roll-call vote, we are voting on the rest of the other articles and the amendment. The vote will again be taken electronically by the rapporteurs and the special speakers of the bill. I would like to point out that the vote includes nine articles, one amendment, the hotel article and the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendment, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check or revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the system for electronic voting be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u554	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u555	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u556	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Amendments to Criminal Code, Code of Criminal Procedure and related provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u557	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u558	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-13-S1-commons.u559	With the consent of Parliament at no time of 23.20 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 14 November 2019 at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) Parliamentary control, topical questions debate; (b) Parliament's decisions, debate and vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the proposal of the President of Parliament: "To amend the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, Part II and Part Parliament", (c) a. only discussion and adoption of Parliament's Expenditure Report, financial year 2018, b. only discussion and vote of Parliament's Draft Budget for the Parliament, financial year 2020 and d. legislative work, only discussion and vote at the beginning, articles and all of the draft law: "Secretification: (a) of 25.09.2019 B. (b) from 30.09.2019 B.C. ‘Incidental arrangements of competence of the Ministries of Environment and Energy, Interior, Economic and Health’ (A 145), (c) of 04.10.2019 B.N.P. 'Urgent arrangements of responsibility of the Ministry of Health' (A to 150) and other provisions'.
