ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Minister of State: "Executive State: Organisation, operation and transparency of the Government, Governmental Institutions and Central Public Administration". I would like to inform you that more than thirty Members have left to speak. I would ask that the seven-minute time should not be strictly respected, so that the Bureau does not have any difficulty. Also, if possible, in order to respect all the colleagues who need to speak, in order to make it possible for everyone, from now on, I would ask you to limit your speaking time and speak less than what you are entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u3	First of all, what are you asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u4	I would like the floor on personal grounds, Mr President, for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u5	There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u6	There is a staff, because yesterday my names were falsified by the Minister, who lied.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Ragosi, a new meeting has begun. Please, you don't have the floor. Please close the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u8	Thirty seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u9	You don't have the floor. The only person who has the right to speak is the parliamentary representative and not on a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u10	There's a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u11	There's no personal matter. I'm here now and I don't know... Mr Ragosi, listen to something, you have to read the Rules of Procedure, to see what it means.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u13	Mrs Xenonanakopoulou, as a parliamentary representative, tell me what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u14	I would like to ask the Minister two questions for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u15	Let me give you the floor to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Yesterday the Minister distributed a list of legislative improvements following the second reading. It's two issues. I will start with the first one, which was one of the most serious issues that we raised during the debate in the committee. It concerned the option given to the original draft law for selecting private individuals as regards the positions of Heads of State or Government of the proposed Transparency Authority. I am referring to Article 96. Mr President, after very much discussion in committee - and the objections to the opposition - the Minister agreed to be only civil servants, on the grounds that this principle has a particular role to play in controlling and safeguarding the public interest, and there can be no conflict of interest or any kind of involvement of this kind, and he assured us that the Heads of Directorates-General will not be private. Indeed, at second reading in committee, Minister, I came back to clarify, because for us it is a major political and constitutional issue. You assured me, according to the Minutes, that individuals will only be allowed as posters as consultants. That is why we said 'good. It may be by mistake, but in the draft law you were distributing yesterday, which is why I would like to make it clear before the meeting begins, and certainly before the vote, that a number of Heads of State or Government are set up in Article 96, and in accordance with paragraph 11 there is the position of Head of Unit of Inspection and Control and under paragraph 13 it is stated that he is indeed only a public official. However, paragraph 12 precedes the clear definition that for the remaining positions of heads of state may be recruited. We did not understand that in committee. We thought private individuals were just for post-adviser posts. It is a major issue for us, because it raises a matter and a constitutional issue, but it is also a political issue. On the other point, which Mr Ragus raised yesterday, I wanted to say this. You said yesterday that the choice of the administration is made through an AAP. Looking more carefully, however - and this is Article 88 - once again your legislative improvements - which you have indeed partly improved - from the AACC are two members. Third, the Law Council of the State...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u17	So you lied to me, Minister, yesterday in plenary that it is only done with an APA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u18	Mr Ragossi, you are interrupting your parliamentary representative! Respect her opinion and her speech!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u19	Therefore, Minister, we would also like clarification here, as you said in your speech yesterday - of course, it was too late and we were all tired - that they were from the AACC. A more careful reading of the legislative improvements shows what Mr Ragus said yesterday in his speech, that they are two members of the SAP, one of the State's Legal Council, one of the LPDs is proposed by the Minister for Justice and the Secretary-General. In particular, I would like to ask you to have a clear position on the matter of individuals, because it is a major political and constitutional issue for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u20	Minister, would you like to answer now or in total later?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u21	I think that because it has been put on the table, Mr President, it may be better now to answer it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u22	All right, answer it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u23	For only thirty seconds, Mr President, you will allow me. With regard to the part of the heads of state, my understanding was that it was about the head of control and not the administrative departments, which are not linked to a control mechanism, but are just Personnel and Finance and therefore does not have direct control over it. But, if that is a matter of principle, then I would be very happy to formulate a legislative improvement so that they would be excluded from any position of protagonist. That's why there's no question. As far as selection is concerned, understanding is that they are members that are not related to the government. Of the five members, one member is an ex officio Secretary-General of the Government and the other members are from the AACC, from the Academy, and he is also a member of the Board of Legal Affairs of the State. If you want us to have a majority of PCAs, as is the case with the Secretary-General, we would be very happy to exclude one of the three other members, in your opinion, so that there is a majority of PSAs. Whatever the Minister thinks. I have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u24	So last night you said another thing. It was inaccurate what you said last night.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u26	Do you want the floor, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou? Didn't the Minister cover you with what he said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u27	If I can, I can just agree and urge him, because we can find a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u28	You have the floor for a minute to give a brief answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u29	First of all, if they can be three members of the SAEP, they will be even more reliable. For the other thing, I would really like to say, because this is at least the perception of all of us, that this new beginning starts with too many problems and many shadows. Let us not have the shadow of unconstitutionalism, because of the definition of individuals. I would like to ask our parliamentary group to be all civil servants from the outset. Thank you very much, and I would like a reassurance for that, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u30	Do you want to answer, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u31	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u32	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Minister. Your legislative proposal is accepted, and that is why we will be here to exclude all the leaders from the poster positions. As far as the majority of the members of the IACC are concerned, I do not know whether it would be appropriate for the professor to be removed from the Legal School so that we have three members of the IACC, one of the Legal Board of State and the relevant Secretary-General of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Minister. We're on the list. Mr. Alexander Triantafylides from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is the first speech of the second period, and so I feel the need from the heart to thank my fellow citizens in Thessaloniki for the honour and confidence in doing what I promised them. We are your voice and you are our strength. I come to that draft law. A chain of contradictions and contradictions, Mr. Professor, who has otherwise proclaimed, but has designed others and is implemented by the New Democracy, is this first project of law, under the alias "final state", in full and absolute contrast of objectives, objectives and instruments. He didn't even close a month. The elections are recent and the adversary from the pre-electionistally and post-electionally destroyed and disproved is very revealing. The hole is deafening. It is the elections in which the party chosen by the Greek people promised a small, flexible government structure, that of the fifty-one Ministers, Deputys - who would not be - and of the State Secretarys, with a strong presence of women - just five! It is this New Democracy, and not its simulation that promised a smaller, flexible and more effective state - in committee, the Minister said that these belong to 1950 theories - and, once again, to this teratogenicity that we have before us as legislative material. Caricatured by your draft law, Mr. Professor, which will be an example to avoid, will be taught as an exemplary model of poor legacy, which reinforces pathogeny, as Mr. Kastanidis explained, using Mr. Macryketritis' words and references, as it strengthens centralism and makes as permanent punishment for Greek citizens the suspended stigmist, which they will constantly listen to: Who governs this place? But the Prime Minister! All in Chancellor! The first element is the state, in order to be able to use the terms and to understand the same content - a relationship that is important and important, it is said, Mr. Professor, in Linguistics - the state that keeps for itself only the central strategic planning, the general policy guidelines, the small and flexible government structure, so with the small number of ministries, so with the small number of Secretarys-General and Directorates-General. At the same time, the strategic state is decentralising and decentralising - with the exception of the National Defence, obviously for good reasons - competences and resources in the elected regional structures, self-government 1 and 2, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, namely the principle of decisions - 'yes', you say, Minister, but you do not do that - to be taken as the nearest level to the citizens of their representation. What you are trying to do with the proposed law project, with the establishment of the sub-ministerial mammoth, the government's presidency, which you suggest, is what it recommends? It recommends the refusal of the state of staff, its lifting, since, from the five-and-a-half body and retired praetorians, the post-court gaulaters of Prime Minister Kyriakos, who will pass through, they will be approved, they will be checked, they will be checked, one is your objective: the absolute control of the state by the Office of the Prime Minister. This also constitutes the distortion of the Constitution, Article 1(3). Where "laos" you put "Prime Minister": All powers come from the Prime Minister, there are in favour of the Prime Minister and the party that governs and exercises as the Prime Minister and the President of the Government himself defines. Examples: Even the publications of government acts in the Official Journal of the Government, the so-called FEK, are extracted from the Secretary-General and attributed to the Prime Minister. So, Minister, what does the Prime Minister have to do with the FEK? Did the laws that are being passed change on the street? Does he not trust the President of Parliament, Mr. Tasoula, and takes responsibility for the FEK? Even the appointment of personal ambassadors by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is directly attributed to the Prime Minister. You don't even trust Mr. Do you trust Mr. Do you? Why so insecurity? All of this is concentrated on an absolute lord, the Prime Minister, without any institutional counterweight. No institutional counterweight to the Prime Minister's almighty. Where are the institutional counterweights you were talking about to your students, Professor, in the Prime Minister's superpowers? That is why you are right, Minister, when you say no politicization, no partyism. That is what is said, in order to be precise, absolutely'masquencing'. Point 2: You spoke of the new role of the Ministerial Council, which will also have accountability and transparency. No accountability or transparency. Practically closed, Minister. No references to the minutes of the Ministerial Council or to the history of the future. Thirty years and put it on. It is forbidden in Article 4(5). Prime Minister - hatman with the state - the implementation of his orders, locks the minutes. What accountability and transparency? Just a few months ago, there were some colleagues who were re-elected, screaming and saying "support the minutes" about the well-known Kotzia-Kammenos protest. How will you vote now that you were asking for the minutes to be given to publicity, not to know what the citizens are saying at the ministerial meetings, not 30 years later, only through the leaks, with the well-known interconnected media? And we are now coming to the so-called innovative National Transparency Authority, which brings together all the individual audit authorities in one. In practice, what is innovation when the President, the Council and the Director of the National Transparency Authority are essentially appointed through a controlled committee by the Prime Minister himself, Minister? Where is the rule of the increased 4/5 majority you requested and which applies to the other independent authorities? We are talking about an independent authority, we are talking about transparency. What are you afraid of, what do you want at all costs for this check, why this full control everywhere, in everything, for everyone? You are concentrating political and executive responsibilities on one person. The placing of the General Secretariat of Information directly to the Prime Minister, the NSA directly to the Prime Minister, the National Transparency Authority directly to the Prime Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You who would abolish the posters and increase them and increase their earnings by 50% by giving them the Director-General's salary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u37	Please close, Mr. Triantafylides. Last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u38	I'm closing, Mr. President. Others of you have said that civil servants are allies and you will work with them. Others, at the same time, say you hate the public. You look like Christophorus Columbus, who, when he started, did not know where he was going when he arrived, did not know where he was. For one thing, however, he was sure, both himself and his parable: the prestige, distribution, grabbing and distribution of the spoils of the new earth, power in this regard. That's your law, signal to relaunch the party that stopped in 2015. Rejoice the "go, Tsipras", "go, SYRIZA". And I'd like to close it, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u40	And I'd like to close, because, Minister, you're answering everything today...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u41	You've closed, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u42	A phrase, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u43	You have a time when you said 'one phrase'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u44	A phrase, Mr President. Today it was written - because you legislate and I really appreciate both the politeness and the warmth with which you respond directly to Members' questions - that you were rented a relationship with the Competition Committee from 2011 to 2018 with orders from both Mr Drasakis and Mr Juliarakis. You have been ambiguous by the Competition Committee, for which you are now legislating.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u45	You're finished, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u46	It may be legal. But is it also moral that the Minister who had been leased to the Competition Committee, a hundred and sixty-five payment orders, should legislate on it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Triantafylides, you've been misusing time. I beg your pardon very much, but if each of you does the same thing, colleagues will not speak. Mr. Giannoulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I have been in private, and I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u49	Wait a minute, Mr. Giannoulis. Minister, if you answer every question, we are not done. I'll beg at least...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u50	If it is not personal, then what is it, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u51	Yeah. Because there was a personal peak, you can answer now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u52	I asked, it wasn't personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u53	Unacceptable and unbiased. You're president.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. As far as my relationship is concerned, I have never been a member of the Competition Committee, I have received orders for special representations to the Council of State by the Competition Committee, as I have said - you will be surprised now that you will listen to it - from too many people and my clients. I know it may not be too close to your culture, but I had a relationship with the market, because I was a successful professional. I do not want to make a point, but I have a very large clientele, which I have been able to make and capitalised, and I take advantage of, and I believe in the public interest. Especially for the Committee on Competition, I have 15 years' relationship with the competition affairs of the Competition Committee at the Council of State. And, in order to hear this, because I want to be honest, because I have always been in favour of the public interest, all my fees did not exceed EUR 1,800 for a large performance in the Council of State, which means that for the hundred cases I have done, I have taken what I have taken, I have earned 95% of the cases for the Competition Committee with prices which are 20% of the market. If that's what he's telling you! If that is what you think it is reproaching, for me it is an honour that I served, as I served, in full and, furthermore, today to accept that, that is precisely because I come from the market and not from the party tube, I have to be reproached. As far as the issue of the competition law for the Committee on Competition is concerned, I understand that some interconnection needs to be established in order to find myself involved, but I had nothing to do with the provision, so I would ask, if possible, if it is possible with regard to the legislative initiative to limit to what concerns me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Giannoulis has the floor for seven minutes. I would ask you to be consistent in time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u56	I hope, Mr President, that I will contribute to the time table proposed by Mr Kegeroglu. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to speak for a few seconds, since it is my first presence in this Step, to thank the citizens of Thessaloniki as a whole for the election and promotion of five colleagues, and for the important political message they have sent in relation to the much smaller difference between SYRIZA and the New Democracy in a privileged region for New Democracy, at least as they thought. I heard Mr President, a while ago my colleague, Mr Ragosi, accuse the Minister of lying, of lying. It's not the first time, and it won't be the last. I would like to remind you that another characteristic case of inconsistencies and works for the new Government of New Democracy has been revealed today. He had designated the Prime Minister's office as a party service man, he said that the Prime Minister's office does not need, that it was only for party ruffles and he promised, as promised, other things to the Greek people, that he would abolish it. And - oh of the miracle! - Today we hear that the office of Prime Minister in Thessaloniki is directed by Ms Maria Antonios, who was listening to the parliamentary elections on 7 July. She was a congressman of Castorias and she's got a little misunderstanding in her mind. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Mrs Antoniou, who is now running the office of Prime Minister in Thessaloniki, considers that in Grammos and Vitsi we are honoring a national holiday and that is what we are looking at. In the last few days I have heard a slogan: 'Kyriako, make a state'. I really wonder: is there no last name on the Lord who please build a state? There is. He's Mitsotakis. What was the previous relationship between Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the state? Do you want to remember her together? Dismissals, downgrading of services, assignment to private public functions, at multiple costs. What is the legacy of Mr. Mitsotakis? And I don't mean as a family - don't think I'm implying that - but as a political pole in New Democracy. In conclusion, you had built a state that you wanted to do - Mr Simitis recently identified it very well - with the feeling that it is the state's relationship with you. You built it, the country collapsed, and now you are just trying to rebuild the same state, to serve you in your goal to remain in power and, of course, to feel safe and secure by your political donors. Many times, ladies and gentlemen, a mistake can take a historical dimension, be seen as a historical given. At the press conference in Thessaloniki in September, Mr. Mitsotakis had done a Sardam. He said: "I am interested in communication and not the substance." I don't know if it was a mistake, if it was a sardam, but sometimes a mistake can be made, something we understand, something we feel and something we fight. You know, we have never been so cynical about political achievements of the previous government to date. It will be a long list, widow's pensions, an hundred and twenty instalments, social programmes. You seem to be concerned about the fact that two days now in the debate on this bill, which both the rapporteurs and Parliamentary representatives of SYRIZA, show an unprecedented enthusiasm for threatening, ironing, attacking SYRIZA rather than defending your legislative work. This morning, Mr. Georgiadis came to the committee on the other bill. That's how calm was. Hiding tension lasted so little. There, not too much or too much, the finger strongly threatened us with courtesy and an unprecedented re-changing for various things, assuming that time stopped and the four-year olds did not run out. It's one of the mistakes he'll understand in time. I really want to understand why you want us to go into a vicious circle, where civil servants and civil servants will come up with a result in a few months' time - I cannot prophesy, but I have the confidence that this will happen - and now the conflicting interests will multiply what you have as an argument, the disagreement between two ministers, two political persons. I'm afraid it's going to happen and it's going to be the starting point to change positions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Trying to contribute to the time bank, I'll finish by saying something I know will displease you. The motto "Kyriakos, make a state", takes us back a few years ago, when New Democracy failed to complete a digital election and within a month Vangelis became a Kyriakos. I know this is a story and we leave it in the past. However, what continues to remain a record written and gives us a taste of what will follow is that after 7 July you are trying to touch as much as possible in politics in the 20th century. We have shown that the great cost of serving the national interest towards the politician was in front of us and we have taken it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Next time you know what I'm most afraid of? Your own political contradictions and the coexistence of two tendencies within your area, the traditional New Democracy, the People's Orthodox Alarm and the hardest People's Orthodox Alarm that coexist and of course your commitment to the political profile, ideology and practices of the shadow Prime Minister and up to the first shadow president of the New Democracy. So I very much fear that soon those who call today triumphantly "Kyriakos, make state" will soon say or say in a veil: "Unfortunately the MPs, Antonakis, have woken up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u57	Mrs. Joy Head of the Change Movement has the floor for seven minutes. I say it every time someone inspires it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, forty-five years from the restoration of democracy, forty years from the transition of the country to the form of a modern European state and twenty years from the introduction of the Code of Administrative Procedure, the law to the functioning of the public administration, we are still looking for a sufficient model of effective operation of the state machine. The party state is a time-consuming issue from its recommendation. Obviously, we didn't want it solved. Neither political leadership nor the citizens. In fact, we all wanted, but for others, to exclude the small or larger round of friends, virtues and necessities, for our long-term update of dependencies. The "final state" for me has been the greatest incentive to engage in politics. A press conference described the bill for the final state "Saromatic" regarding how the state and the public administration operate. In the sense that scanning is the basic task of settling a messy area, that's what it is. This bill was presented as a draft law that aims to reconcile, set a certain order and declare the intention to implement the existing laws of the state. Laws passed by the Greek state to ignore, circumvent and distort the responsibility of the governments concerned. His innovation is ultimately in the promise of implementation. A promise of the existing legal framework with innovative utility and in the light of efficiency. Its aim is what we call 'hairdressing from the perpetrators'. It creates a normality that we have missed, is the truth, in recent years. However, the need to legislate for law enforcement is not a question of shame, at least for serious national reflection. Ladies and gentlemen, the government seems first to circumvent and despise what it itself declares. Where is the consultation of the bill, even for the eyes of the world? No post at ‘OpenGov’. Didn't make it? Did she miss her? He forgot, didn't he? However, this is not to be forgiven by a government which delights in bringing fresh air of lawfulness and indeed in a draft law which deals with the process of effectively respecting legality. You have not even bothered to inform the citizens and to ask for their opinion, even substantially. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government's treatment of state and government administration reveals a serious lack of confidence in established institutions, constitutionally protected. The choice of treatment is, in fact, the creation of a parallel administrative shape, which in reality controls and strips the existing by overlapping and by subtracting responsibilities. You create the National Transparency Authority. Structure useful, but with your "good morning", it does not honor its name. Its management body does not even have the guarantees of a Selection Committee of the Secretary of State. The democratic principles and laws that we built as a nation, with labor, time and countless sacrifices, with all the flaws, with all the shortcomings and failures they may have, it is incomprehensible that they should be violated for any reason, even if it is for their own good and ultimately for our good. In the Movement of Change we are and we will be present, to claim respect for and respect for the rules of democracy that we have as a place ensured for Greek citizens with works such as "DIAGYY" and "Electronic and Open Governance". As the first example of writing the new government, the present draft law, however enthusiastic and advertised efficiency and if presented, is not prosperous. I wonder whether the public administration is being tightly controlled by the Prime Minister's office, where is it meeting with the state's colonisation? How is the rule of law guaranteed, the separation of powers, when everything is controlled by the government's almighty presidency service? The new centralised and powerful Maximus will have five secretaries. All of this will come under the presidency of the government, which in turn falls under the Prime Minister. Let's not go far. In addition to this, the Presidency of the Government shall also be the PSC and the Legal Adviser of the State and the Office of the Court of Auditors. And a small point. The features of the successful management model of a profitable S.A. They cannot be an example of the creation of an executive state. Why the unsubs? They have a boss - owner, who has no obligation of democratic sensitivities - but has no obligation beyond the legal obligations and limitations imposed by the legislation. The state machine, however, is the implementation of all democratic commitments and the predictions of a society. If we overlook these, then we will have a state that may be effective, but certainly unparalleled and authoritarian. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Final state, after all, what does it mean? It means an effective state. It means a decentralised, flexible state, which shapes general policies through a small number of ministries, which have general directorates with competent officials. Finally, it does not mean a water-brained state, with a huge service at the top, in the role of a general aberrant, to control the action or inaction of the competent ministers that the Prime Minister has chosen. Finally, it does not mean a central state. The decommissioning of the public administration shall not be established by armed general secretaries by other party secretaries. Ladies and gentlemen, the huge deficit in the efficiency of the public administration which we all recognise holds a number of long-term distortions does not match the trust deficit of the officials at the top of the pyramid.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u59	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u60	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Thank you. Unfortunately, this draft law is going through. A highly dysfunctional, suspicious state is being established, which no one trusts anyone, nor even the Prime Minister himself has chosen to form his government. And this lack leads to the need for more and more suffocating control for an increasingly narrow cycle of auditors. But, in the end, democracies cannot function as one man show for any reason, even if it is extremely serious. Because then very simply they stop being democracies. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u61	The Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Vitsas, has been asked for the floor for a minute. Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u62	A point of order, Mr President. Today they close seventy - four years since Hiroshima bombing in 1945. What I would like, at the Bureau's initiative, at a time when the chairs will be filled with a minute's silence in the memory of the victims. And this will show our commitment and our effort for peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Vitsa. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u64	Indeed, it is the anniversary of one of the most fertile crimes against humanity committed by your allies, Mr Vitsa, Mr New Democracy gentlemen, KINAL and all others. With them you have a strategic alliance now. Three hundred thousand people were killed, while Japan was about to surrender. Why did they do it? They answered it after the war. In order to determine the bazaar - I will say it this way - who is stronger than the Soviet Union and other countries after the war. They admitted it cynically. Changed? They're the same. They have strategic allies, and without a trace, I would say, shame you say that they will defend the interests of the country, those who did not hesitate to kill dozens, hundreds, millions all over the world, by dropping the most banned weapons and recently in Yugoslavia. And the best message to be given is that the people must fight, overthrow imperialist barbarism. As far as the bill is concerned, I would first like to make a point of order. This style established by all governments, all debated together and at the outset and on the articles in two days' time and in a short process is unacceptable. You all denounced SYRIZA then, before SYRIZA denounced you. Now we're going back to the same violin. And there can be no real debate unless more is done on the articles and on the one hand more on the other, in the sense that more can be put. Anyway, our rapporteur, Manolis Synthrakis, was placed, spoke, and George Marinos spoke. I want to raise a few more general issues. First theme. What matters to the people and to those who see us and who see us is to understand and judge, of course, what is behind these great and splendid statements by the New Democracy today, and the other old ones, about the modern central administration, of an effective state, of orderly, modern and citizen-friendly, which will serve the citizen. All these barbecues are said! So we ask the question: with these announcements you have made, and which others have done before, what exactly will the people benefit? Will wages and pensions return to the pre-crisis levels? No, unequivocally, from all sides. Will the jungle and galley industrial relations change, this hell that exists with two hours, three hours, overtime? The other one was burned! A complaint was made from the Labour Center of Corfu. Will they stop killing, murder workers in the workplace from lack of protective measures? Will there be permanent and stable work or wandering, as you have all agreed? Will spending on education, health, culture, sport, social costs, as they are called? Will this effective state change the tax system that crushes people's layers with direct and indirect taxes? Ultimately, will this state abolish the institutional framework created by the memoranda of the PASOKs, New Democracy, SYRIZA, who have done hell with the lives of the workers and the people? None of this will happen. The answer is simple and easy. The institutional changes brought about by the bill have exactly the opposite objective, to make the state more effective for the unrestricted implementation - as I said last time, 'heads right and foot' - of all this barbarous anti-grass policy, which was institutionalised by all the governments and which were aimed at safeguarding the interests of monopolies, business groups, i.e. large capital. You have all sacrificed, slaughtered the people's interests during the crisis and paid for the crisis, not the people who possess it. So now, with these changes, with the recipes of the European Union and the OECD - don't tell me that they are public institutions! - the interests of monopolies are protected both in Europe and worldwide. With these recipes you want to shape, that is to say, go further - because others have been ahead of us, and SYRIZA and the previous ones - a more centralised government, a more servants state - I will say that - more resistant to the service of business groups, to ensure a new account of the recovery of those wealthy profits in the country. Profit increases from the robbery of workers. At the same time - and this has already begun and been discussed - you want to form a hard core of senior state officials, which will ensure and ensure, as in other developed capitalist countries, the continuity of anti-popular policy regardless of the political context, from the rotation of parties in government power, which are, of course, serving the system. And you have all signed - and let them now leave the opposition - a contract with the European Union. All the commitments of the three Memorandums have the signatures of all these parties. And, of course, you have agreed, and you have the good news of strict control by the Commission on the implementation of these, and that proves every day. But you are also seeking more. This core of the executives is not simply capable of implementing this policy, but is not affected by popular pressure, but by believing it, embedded, not accounting for anything. Politicians - Yapes, that is, you want to make it, and I say that. Let us now leave the tales of communism and politicisation here. I heard a minister at random. He said that "we do not want to be partisan, but we want them to be politicised". What do you mean by 'culturalized'? To believe in this barbaric system and to have competence to implement the policy that crushes workers as a whole and not to be influenced or pressed. With such selection criteria, regardless of what politicians may have, they will try with the so-called evaluation, etc. They're going to serve the state mechanism. And of course, is that possible? And we'll get private purchases too. After all, Mr Tsipras has agreed on this, and it is enough, he says, that they should not be directly intertwined. The claim that the state will be a citizen-friendly citizen will serve the citizen cannot stand up to the critical elementary student. Really, what's the state? Let's agree. Is that a toxic? Isn't it the organized class domination, the organised domination of a class? It is. No one can answer any differently. There are no classes in society? There are classes. So the state is the citizen - what you say - and it's independent? Citizens are also the industrialist, a citizen is the worker. The issue is what interests this state serves. Citizenship is also the shipowner, a citizen is also the seafarer. What interests does it serve? One works up to his grave - there you will now take your system - and the other dulls and takes the goodwill produced. So this is about a friendly country, etc. They're fairy tales for the world and they need to understand it. What's the bourgeois state? It is the sovereignty of the bourgeoisie and the institutionalisation - I shall say that - and the service of the robbery of workers. It is a hard class state and everyone's interests are not the same, it is opposing. The more the worker works and produces goodwill, the more the capitalist wins. In no capitalist state in the world does he share his profits and does not share power anywhere. And let this go, that is, that the profits will be shared, what the New Democracy is saying now, because others have said so. That is why, because all the other parties, other than the JRC, accept - we disagree, but some accept - the capitalist state, the criticism made by the rest of us is superficial, meaningless, disorientative, which is done in individual, in small and not in the basic, of what the state is. In fact, here we now have SYRIZA, KINAL with individual remarks on the Prime Minister, if the system will be more centralised, as in the previous one, the state mechanisms and the functioning of governments, which were not so centralised, served the people's interests. Who are you telling all this to? In fact, now comes Mr. Varoufakis, who is making a new myth. He says he will serve the parasitic oligarchy that state of New Democracy. Really? Is there, then, a good oligarchy, a non-parasitarian, such as healthy entrepreneurship and sick entrepreneurship? Together, they go all this, there's no healthy. There is capitalist entrepreneurship, which has laws and is based on exploitation. So I say that either with the British or the French either with the German model, with either a liberal or a social-democratic or anything else, this state cannot be fair or even justice. It will be discriminatory in favour of large capital, it will serve its interests and it will hit the workers. This has been demonstrated by all types of management of the capitalist system both in Europe and in our country. Of course, trying to defend the fact that there will be a fair state with some areas of management is a mockery against the Greek people in general. Despite the individual administrative differences - there are differences, we do not say that there are - there is agreement, and all governments have so far done exactly that. This State does not change to the benefit of the worker. This state is overthrown, when they decide themselves, the majority of the people, those producing wealth, taking it into their hands and managing it. I do not want to mention examples now. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will also use my dentistry if I may. Thank you. If we now want to prove that, in taxation, is the state fair? The distributed profits of 15%, SYRIZA did it with the votes of the New Democracy, and the New Democracy is now doing it. Waged seven hundred euros 22%. So who does this state work for? For the worker or for the dipping man, who doesn't know what's wrong with him? They're incredible and people listen to them. Those who live mythical life, who have incredibly rich 5%, 22% seven and eight hundred. Secondly, tax exemptions infinitely and you are discussing - when you give billions of tax exemptions, when you refuse to tax shipowners, who have sixty tax exemptions - and you fight for taxfree, whether they are five and a half thousand or they are eight thousand. And then you're talking about justice and a fair state. Is that fair, Minister, where you suggest it? It's not personal, it's yours. That's the state you're building. It is the state of the few that ends up with the entire Greek people. Should we go to development incentives? Infinity, billions. Where's all this from? From the sweat and blood of the people: 5% of big capital, which holds over 65% of GDP in budget and tax expenditure, 95% of workers. Hard, barbaric, class state, with whatever political and any government, whether it was SYRIZA, PASOK or New Democracy. Laws unscrupulous. What are you talking about? There's a gun on the worker. SYRIZA opened the way and is now coming to open it even more. Electronic vote for the strike! What are you talking about? Sessions, participation, opinions, exchanges of views? Discommunication. A fraudulent at home and with the employer over his head dictating to him, while in businesses a right to redundancies, nothing is foreseen for accidents or for anything, unaccompanied entirely. Well, that is your state and this policy you want to support. Should I go further? External policy. Why didn't SYRIZA and others listen here? Because you're all identified in foreign policy. National Security Governing Council. What's that gonna do? It will also address security, foreign and internal affairs. We are reading NATO's new strategy. Because NATO did not have the communist risk, as he was saying - it invented new risks and used them for pretexts, to wage wars and serve the interests of these countries everywhere. There is, of course, a greater involvement of the Armed Forces - we want to take note of this - in matters of security and these open up dangerous roads as a whole. Of course, this is where the crowd was suppressed in Kilkis. Natonic exercises. The scenario was for some people to rebel and the Special Forces to hit him. Why don't you say anything about this state, which sends Greeks to NATO missions, which participates in NATO's war operations, which is indirectly involved in the slaughter of people and their destruction? How? If you fully agree, that's why there's no talk coming out. So, to close, because I want to refer to Article 13, the state has always been effective. He did fine during the crisis with all the pathogens. His main direction was fire and axe. He stole billions overnight from the insurance funds. Reduce 22% wages, pensions. He cracked everything the world had conquered over the years. That was very effective. It's just in every phase it's harder. People's needs will never be met, nor can there be a friendly state of capitalism. Finally, I am going to refer to Rule 113 concerning the two hundred years, and I shall read it in order not to delay it. We as a party are studying scientifically the civil national liberation revolution of 1821 that served social development, crushing the feudal bonds of the Ottoman Empire and paving the way for the establishment of the Greek urban state. The timeless message and topical of 1821 is that the organized people and the determined one can face and defeat opponents who seem to be powerful and invincible. We remember: Holy Alliance, now we have European Union, NATO, etc. Conditions may have changed in many things, but the essence remains the same. The message - extremely topical - is that, when people are united, they can defeat opponents who seem powerful. Also, the message is that revolutions are the vehicle of social progress that overthrows their historically outdated classes and power. For over a hundred years the bourgeoisie has ceased to be a force of progress. Then, indeed, it was. The ideology that expressed the interests of this bourgeois class is obsolete. I don't have to say much. Ten people have incomes as much as three and a half billion people around the world. Just one clue, I'm not saying any more. It blocks society's progress. The capitalist state as it modernises - I said it before - is becoming more efficient to serve the exploitation of the working class and the poor people's strata. An institution of the new historically, despite the historical return that is common to all social systems - they did not win with the first - it is the working class and socialist power that serves social development and objectively the interests of society. The intention of Article 113 to build a national account and a single picture of the history of Greece, attempts to obscure the class contradictions that contributed to the formation and course of the Greek state and much more, its timeless class identity. It was never a state of all Greeks in the classic sense. It is trying to promote the idea of national unity and through it to present the interests of the bourgeoisie as the interests of the whole society. Really? Is it the same? Does the robbery now serve national interests? Because the robbery exploitation is carried out by those who possess wealth. It also wants to shield civil power, it wants to facilitate the anti-Fraud policy pursued by all urban strata in the name of national interests and civil rights, Mr Triantafylides. And you, for national interests, brought the memorials, and you brought the national interests with the Americans and the NATO killers and PASOK the same old, and the New Democracy today. That is why we do not agree. We are voting against Rule 113. The JRC will broadly show the people, with its own events, positions and, of course, will take part in any conversations called, highlighting the country's true history from this point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. I will give the floor for two minutes to the Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr Livano, to develop it under the general number 14 and a special 3 amendment by the Ministry of Interior. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, this amendment relates to an amendment to the provisions of Law 3528/2007 and in essence is an adaptation to the legal framework now introduced by the new law currently being discussed before Parliament. The main change is that in the special councils selected by heads, directors and directors-general, he is no longer the Secretary-General of the Ministry, but is the Ministry's official secretary. At the same time, and until the appointment of all secretaries, crises will normally continue, as the legislation so far provides. The establishment of the Service Secretary-General is a major section in the public administration. And it's a cut, which should be supported. In fact, for the first time, civil servants assume important responsibilities in the functioning of a ministry, such as the management of economics and the management of human resources. There is now an independent public career employee with a lot of qualifications, judging exclusively by the ADP, who will effectively undertake to run the daily work, the service jobs of the Ministry. Therefore, this amendment upgrades him - and obviously puts him on the board he chooses - the heads. Obviously, as the government has committed itself, the procedures and the choices of the secretaries-general will quickly be put in place for all ministries, but above all for the completion of the crisis, according to objective criteria. If you ask me why the bill of the Ministry of the Interior is not submitted, which is currently being discussed in the House, I can tell you that it is purely legal. Because, with good things, it will be passed today by parliament, it cannot refer to a law, which has not yet been published in FEK. So, necessarily, the amendment to this bill comes a little late in the House. And we apologise for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute on the amendment. I would like to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u69	Here, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. My question is clear. Minister, I understand from the amendment that until the institution is established - that is to say it is institutionalised by the bill, but until the definition procedures are established - the existing institutional framework will apply. Question: What Secretary-General will be on this committee? Because after the presidential decree there is a confusion. Responsibilities have gone to the ministers. There are new Secretary-General. It's not clear anymore who's the secretary-general at every ministry. Parliament must know exactly who will be in the transitional phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u71	Minister, you have the floor for a minute to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u72	I'll try to answer and faster. As you have rightly pointed out - the notion of the Secretary-General of the Ministry no longer exists, as was the case in the case of Ms. 2005/63, one of the Secretary-General will be provisionally designated until the Secretary-General has been appointed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u73	Is he going to be designated by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u74	Yes, from the minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u75	Perhaps you should refer to this in the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u76	Mrs Anna Mani - Papadimitriou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, one of the primary election commitments of the New Democracy and the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, was the commitment to a state of modern, efficient, citizens-friendly, a state that will not be an obstacle to economic growth and social prosperity. It is therefore no accident at all, on the contrary, that it is essential, but also symbolic, that the first bill submitted by the Government of New Democracy relates precisely to this commitment and is a modern and integrated guide of governance, as for the first time in the history of the modern Greek state, all the provisions relating to the functioning of the main government structures are codified in a single text. Mostly it is a bill that, by the innovative arrangements it introduces for the final state, following best international practices, effectively tackles many of the chronic diseases that afflict Greek public administration and citizens in their daily lives. Thus, in a final state, as defined in the bill, there is coordination, regular monitoring of the course of the government project, timely correction of potential errors, clear distribution of responsibilities and distinct roles to eliminate the labyrinth of bureaucracy and duplication of responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, there are too many cases of overlap. One of the simplest is the issue of a licence for the use of a public space of a saint, how, in other words, a professional will place in the sunbeds in the summer, a case where the municipal authority is sometimes competent, sometimes the property office is competent, sometimes both of which are responsible, so that there is confusion, that the citizen does not know what service the public needs to be addressed to, and at many times, because of the inability to issue a licence, is also dragged into the courts. Now we are going to the most complex cases of overlapping, such as the issuing of a licence for a professional establishment, an industrial installation. That is where a swing of competence is now being created. In fact, I will refer to a comment today by the Regional Director of Thessaly, Mr Agathos, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Administration, who said that for the issue of water usage permits, a basic good for all citizens' lives and everyday life, sometimes it is decentralised and sometimes the region. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate and in the committee, but above all in plenary yesterday, the Qualified Opposition raised three issues by creating mistaken impressions towards the people who are following us. The first issue concerns post-mortem employees. Ladies and gentlemen, post-mortem officials have always existed. And it has been heard many times in the Chamber that, on your government, the post-masters were about seven hundred sixty and seven hundred ninety, if I remember correctly and I am not mistaken. What this bill does is to limit the number of posted officials and that is very correct, because the number of posted officials cannot be exceeded in this way. A second issue concerns so-called over-concentration and control by the person of the Prime Minister. Is the provision setting out the regular monthly meetings of the Ministerial Council in order to regularly monitor the progress of government work and that in the interests of the public interest? At this point, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, and with all due respect to the face of the Chief of Police Representation, I do not understand why yesterday's reference to the form of civilisation, when he referred to the issue of concentration of responsibilities, which he mentioned about the civilisation that we do not have a Presidential Republic, but a President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic. This issue is mostly about the powers, powers and the way the President of the Republic is elected, and not about the powers of the Prime Minister. And the third point concerns the National Transparency Authority, which incorporates control bodies, which in many cases had overlapping powers. And here the Qualified Opposition left suspicions about the course of checks that have not been completed. We reiterated that on several occasions, the Minister has also stressed that this is a universal succession, and even accepted a legislative improvement, which he incorporated into the relevant provision. There is therefore no question of any conflicting interpretation. Furthermore, a significant targeting of the bill is the decommissioning of the public. Thus, the institution of the Secretary-General, which will come from the public administration, is to be chosen exclusively on the basis of CSCE criteria, without any political involvement and with the power of final signature. The transfer of powers from political leadership to public administration is also institutionalised, in order to ensure the necessary need for the continuation of the state, because it is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, in a modern European state whenever elections are held or if a simple reform is made, to paralyse public administration. Thus, individual administrative acts will now be adopted by the relevant directorates-general and there is no problem with this, as most individual administrative acts are now bindingly adopted and in very few cases discretionary. In any case, the Minister remains the political leader. This will save critical time and red tape. Ladies and gentlemen, the great bet on this governance is the creation of new and well-paid jobs. The reversal of Brain Drain, so that young people return to our country and such arrangements are one of the means to achieve this great goal. In conclusion, I would like to point out that this first bill by the New Democracy Government marks the great political change that has come to our country, which is beginning through Parliament itself. The Minister of State during the debate delivered lessons of democracy and good legalism, listening to all the remarks and adopting and integrating too many of the proposals made by colleagues in opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is changing and becoming a normal European country. And it has to change. We owe this to our children and to the next generations. The New Democracy does not build party armies and will never use public administration as a means of serving micro-party goals. We believe deeply in the abstracting of public administration and the state, we have complete confidence in public officials and their competences, and that is the point of reducing political positions and transferring powers to service providers. We want the State to serve the citizen, and this bill is the first but decisive step towards achieving this objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to see things beyond the bliss of the government a few weeks after the elections, but also free of any charm that the winner of the elections is taking on in the public. We politicians need to be aware of what the wave means to be high for you and what it means to be low. Apart from my experience, however, which I call on to say what I am saying - they help me to express my views on the provisions of this draft law, and in particular Articles 18 to 67 which regulate the so-called 'final state'. The source of evaluation - from my point of view - is not an ideological starting point. These neoliberal model are flammable, they are chattering to pass the time, they have no meaning and above all leave indifferent to all citizens. However, the source of my evaluation is the abundant need - and when I say "blessed" I mean it, I am referring to all the political parties in the Greek Parliament, all of us here recognize that there is a great need - for the economy not only to become shocking, as we said a few months ago, but shocking growth, to come to an end the vicious primary surplus for 2019 and the 2020 of 3.5% that SYRIZA charged us. In order to do this and to have content citizens, the economy must really have a shocking rate of growth, as I told them, right now. It's hard. The demand related to the economy and combined with the issues of this draft law, we as a party had it in the run-up to the election. If you look at our programme, we say that it is - let us say - the limits of the national issue to the discharge of the economy from bureaucracy, so that we can work more quickly. The current Prime Minister has heard election say that he will pass as a roller over the bureaucratic obstacles to the economy. And we have today - I will develop it in a few words - a draft law which does exactly the opposite. And I want to separate my position immediately from the Civic Opposition, which said a lot about neoliberal shapes, which, as a government for four and a half years, has been thinking: ‘What problem do I have? I'll build a state structure to deal with it. Do I have a problem with alpha or beta sector? Good, a General Secretariat. Do I have another problem? A special secretariat. Do I have anything else? Let me do some ten public services." So they think and so what they say, they do not count, because they set up public administration bodies and after four and a half years, they are unable to say that 'I had these results'. We therefore call your draft law for the state as a 'project of law for the supposedly state of law' and should therefore give some explanation why we think so. Our first explanation is relatively theoretical. It deals with the confrontation of the central state with decentralisation and decentralisation. Right? There can be no disagreement on this. The draft law, however, moves backwards. It does not grant the ultimate state, but it gathers. He's not decentralised, but he's concentrating. He doesn't decentralize, but he's picking up on himself. However, the second explanation, ladies and gentlemen, is more serious. It comes from how a citizen expects less bureaucracy. Six general secretariats under the Prime Minister, auditing - I will make a special reference -, parallel responsibilities and responsibilities, hundreds of officials, bureaucracy, and even to present a draft law. How will the economy move and society in a fast-moving way? Instead of a simple command that will work by removing obstacles and exempting the economy from the deadly hug of the state, here is a brutal bureaucratic structure. Also, however, for the control mechanisms, Minister, take note of a comment made by our colleague, Kostas Botopoulos, in his recent document on the 'NEA': six control mechanisms with overlapping responsibilities: the Presidency of the government, a relevant service with its eye mainly on corruption by Ministry, a special secretariat for monitoring the government's work, the newly established Political Monitoring Committee, as well as the newly established National Coordinating Body within the Transparency Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, it won't come out. With what you're doing, you're trapped and you're not going to get out. Two are the prospects for this luxurious service created by the Prime Minister: or life itself will leave it alone - the ministers will do so on the side - or the economy itself will be oppressed, society itself and you will remain self-sufficient for all issues and for legislative work. There is the power of the example. I was telling the former Prime Minister, Mr Papandreou, that we had, as a prerequisite for the legislative initiative, made it - an obligation to check our text after the committee - which you did not pass - the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers. To get through and get that signature, we lost a few days or a few weeks. I remember myself, but other colleagues at the time, how we were delayed when we had urgent needs, the very small, one-faced structure, which was finally helpful, as I judge after the years passed. Here, Minister, you will feel reluctant. It'll have to pass through a hot double. I have nothing but "I wish you good night!" And I mean it. It's indescribable what you're doing and you'll understand it in practice. In theory and in the simplest arguments, liberal, socialist and so forth, talk is taking place. And I wonder about the Civic Opposition. Yesterday Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos announced her roll-call vote, left all these big issues aside and focused on issues relating to other issues - I am not saying that she is not serious - of the draft law. The trap that the Chief of Staff has fallen to you yesterday to ask you questions and interventions on regional issues not at the heart of the draft law shows the way he thinks - because he received paid answers - but that both the Government and the majority and the Civilian Opposition are not aware of what the daily citizen has a great need. Look at what you're doing with the state at last and we'll talk again after months, when there'll be examples and my experience will talk about us all. Before I come to say a few words lately about the first part of the draft law on the functioning of the Government, I am impressed by the insistence with which Members of the Staff Regulations stand to some people who have had crucial roles in the functioning of democracy in the past four and a half years and who are currently defending them. I won't say anything more. We'll talk in the next few days and weeks. For anyone who knows, however, my words are clear. Minister, before I cross the last part of my speech, I would like to ask you this. Really, how many general secretaries will you have? Tell me a number. You must have it in your mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u80	Fifty-three.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u81	What about the servants?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u82	Fifty-three plus the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u83	Plus how many?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u84	Sixteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u85	Is that the final number? Sixty-nine says the arithmetic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u86	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u87	And the presidency of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u88	And the presidency of the government. The final number will be found in the months ahead. And because they complimented you on the rapid placement of the Secretary-General, you tell me how much the appointment has gone to FEK. A lot of people haven't gone. Many of the Secretary-General who have appointed them immediately has not gone and therefore cannot sign them. So - I'm addressing the majority - honeymoon days are good. More political, however, is everyday life and the issues it highlights. And already with regard to what we are discussing today on the draft law, the problems you seem to have are too much. Now we're going to the last, my speech, unity of the draft law. Look, I have been following you both in the programming statements, but also in your speeches and in the committee and here. You're making a mistake. It is a mistake about the science of Public Law, which is why I will not speak for long. But you said in this Chamber that after the dictatorship, in other words, the Ministerial Council was not a strategy-setter, it did not work periodically and at times it did not work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The practice doesn't verify, and I called you underneath. Because, yes, two charismatic Prime Ministers, Karamanlis and Papandreou, were working with a Ministerial Council, ladies and gentlemen, with very limited meetings - this is the truth - but this practice has been broken with the multi-party government of the also memorable Mitsotakis in 1989 and when the Government of New Democracy was a one-party government, our late friend Evangelos Voloudakis also, authorizing me to investigate the minutes of the Ministerial Council - from which I am present - and the experience I am conveying here - has informed me that the Ministerial Council was working on periodic regular meetings. My experience now - I have made four Prime Ministers - is the following, Minister. I can say that we have been at the other end of the day: regular meetings of many hours on strategic issues and with a rich agenda. Many times we have not had time to get through the many jobs we have had in the long-term meetings of the Ministerial Council. How does your removal come about, that after the post-collection we did not have a Ministerial Council, a strategy centre, or an operational centre, and that is why you now have to make new legislation on this? And legislation is in place, ladies and gentlemen, and rules of procedure are in place, and many times they have been amended and on many points they have been insufficient, and yours here have problems. I will record some of them - if you give me a minute from my dentistry, even to conclude - meticulous arrangements for a law concerning the Ministerial Council, which is very meticulous. A minister to put forward a proposal should do it forty-eight hours ago. This is legacy that is inconsistent with the functioning of governments. Why, if his proposal matures at another time or at a meeting, will he have to wait in order? You come up with a subject, but a subject that proves to meticulousism. Secondly, a vote on the Ministerial Council. The Ministerial Council is not a parliament. The Ministerial Council took place in Greece on the junta and this sort of institutional naivety hits it, because at that time the Ministerial Council overall worked, but the country did not have a democracy. The institutional naivety is not good. Then he worked normally, there was no parliament. They were said there by the junta, but democracy the country did not have and the junta charged the country with what it charged it. The institutional naivety needs to be landed, firstly, democracy and, secondly, the needs of the citizens in a democracy. Vote and legitimate majority voting. I would like to ask you this: is the Minister who stands up, disagrees and does he not resign has a lesser political responsibility than the one who is drafted in the view of the majority? What answer do you give to this? Even anyone who disagrees, ladies and gentlemen, says so, listens to the Prime Minister and closes the debate. When you close the debate and your opinion has not been accepted, or you will leave or take full political responsibility. And while you are too meticulous in these, when it says that the Minutes, the secrets for thirty years, are only recorded there the opinions that have passed. Minority views shall not be recorded. Why? I don't understand. Why, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u89	Because it is an existing provision, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u90	What does the existing provision mean? The majority, one that says something else, must be there. The researcher of the future, after thirty years, has to see it. It does not go through or published because it has been classified for 30 years. Why should it not be recorded? Below, in the case of acts of legislative content or of a decree, it shall be recorded there. That's not serious. It's my opinion, and I'm tabling it to you. Ladies and gentlemen, my last point is the reconstructuring of the provisions for the Governmental Council for Foreign and Defence. Given that a provision has been laid down in 2002 on the Simitis, and has never been implemented, namely that the CSCE is a strategic analysis centre, I would ask you very much to reconsider the proposal of the New Democracy, which we have rejected, for the creation of the independent body of the National Security Council. Many institutions, ladies and gentlemen, have Greece. Most of them are relaxed. We don't need an instrument yet. You've crossed the competence here. That's a good set-up. In conclusion, I would like to say that since the beginning of this parliamentary term involving a Review House, we have made clear our intention to exercise responsible and serious criticism and opposition. However, we cannot close our eyes or silence when we see counterproductive, anti-productive and, as I said today, and have proved, I think, dysfunctional forecasts in the draft legislation being passed. This draft law, ladies and gentlemen, contains such provisions. Both I and my colleagues from the Change Movement spoke before me about the mistakes and the messages. Mr Kastanides was very detailed, very specific and it appeared from the acceptance of some of his proposals and very constructive. Our duty, therefore, as Opposition, ladies and gentlemen, has already been demanded, and we have fulfilled our obligations towards our voters and the Greek people so far. So I urge you, too, of the majority, and especially of the ministers, to lift up the circumstances and to revise the draft law where it sees you, that is, where you need to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u91	Thank you to Mr Loverdo, to whom I would like to say that he took all the time of his denunciation, so that he won't protest afterwards. Before I give the floor to Mr Gülekas, I would like to remind all my fellow Members of the Minutes of last night, when the President says: 'Mrs Güleka, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that after the communication of the President of Parliament with the parliamentary groups, the roll-call vote was decided tomorrow', that is to say, 'to take place at 10 o'clock tomorrow'. As a result, every minute that has been abused means that some colleagues will not speak and they are also colleagues who would like to speak for the first time as the first elected Members. Mr. Giuleka, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. I imagine that this should apply to all Members, because the Members of Parliament have spoken less time in total and, of course, the list will not be exhausted today. In reply to Mr Loverdos, I would like to assure him of one thing: No, we do not feel that we are on our honeymoon, Mr Loverde. We really know that all that goes on in the country is the problems. And in this sense, with a full sense of responsibility, we have started this course. Of course we will be judged by our course and judged by the result. I would like, Minister, to dwell on the fact that you have shown a spirit of cooperation. We really need to know, why? Because you have had too many remarks made from the standpoint of counter-population, and that is what I can assure you in this Chamber. As also, it is important to say that this bill came in accordance with the normal procedure, while it could come as an "urgent" or "urgent", the bill actually justifies it, also because this is something that shows the spirit and mood that prevails both in you and in the government. And I think that just because we're not used to this kind of thing, it's worth our while to stand on it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard a number of the Members who took the lead in the Step and have all raised a number of issues. They from Opposition raised a number of issues which thus found themselves suffering in this bill, of course the Coupling spoke flatteringly about the government's legislative initiative. No one claims that with this bill we are effectively eradicating all the pathogens of the public sector. Alas! Alas, if one were to say so! But on the other hand, do we agree or not on something? Do we need to make changes in the organisation and functioning of the state? Do they need intervention? And if they need to, should we or should we not make some areas, if you want, go through, set up some institutions, so that we can really help in that direction? That's what this bill does. Of course, what I would like to say is that we are not treating all political and administrative diseases with this bill, but we are laying the foundations for a better state. We called it 'final'. Practice will show whether it can actually work on these bases. We think it's a realistic piece of legislation that can really lead us there. I will be brief, Minister, to the most important introduction of this piece of legislation. The Ministerial Council changes the way it operates. I listened carefully to Mr Loverdos and made an important historical reference to the years of postpopulation. There were other periods beyond what you have actually mentioned, with very important and substantial meetings of the Ministerial Council. But, on the other hand, I would like to say that the fact that the way in which the Council operates at regular intervals is institutionalised, that the Ministerial Council meets in the manner in which the overall final governmental plan, organised by the Ministerial Council per Ministry according to the principle of competence, is envisaged and that this is something important, and that decisions are taken by voting on its members and that is where the general policy of the country is drawn up. In fact, the Prime Minister comes to coordinate, the Prime Minister comes to monitor the progress made in each area by ensuring the unity of the government with his presence. The responsibilities are maintained in full, because this has been heard that they are scorned, that the responsibilities of the ministers are limited. No, it's not like that. They shall be kept in full, shall remain with the Ministers depending on the subject of each individual. But here, there is a serious division through the presidency of the government, the follow-up of progress in the implementation of the government's work, but also the avoidance - that is very important - of the overlaps that have existed and the responsibilities, which we have experienced. I am going to another issue which is also very important, and those who have grown up in ministries know that very well, as many Members here know, who have a parliamentary experience. The General Secretariat for Legal and Legislative Affairs has been heard that it restricts the rights of Ministers. To remind you that in every advanced democratic country there is such a General Secretariat and, of course, this secretariat is not going to draw up the bills, but will be involved in legislative work. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a common place that most laws in our country are passed and then we need interpretative circulars to understand what the law says. This thing can't go on. Why, then, is it bad and why, by a preamble, should some be offended when a new start takes place? Yeah, we didn't say that all of this could work in perfection. Where there are arrhythmias, we are here to correct them, and that is why I started by the spirit shown by the Minister present, the Minister responsible in fact, in discussing and accepting too many of the remarks. Last, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, that was what was done with the addition of a third member of the AACC to ensure better transparency. It is a step in the right direction. That's how we want to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u93	We admitted that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u94	You have actually admitted it and I say it as a positive example what we have seen before in this Chamber. I come to the matter of the secretaries-general. Finally, there is a distinction between civil administration and the service administration. We know and I tell you that those who have some little or no government experience, as required by our Charter, our Constitution, the development of the general policy pursued by the country, of course, belong to the political administration. In the administration, however, and in particular the Secretary-General, which is the highest tier of the administrative hierarchy, they are primarily matters which are closely and directly related to the administration, the financial, i.e. expenditure, as well as the staff of the Ministry. It is also important that individual administrative acts are transferred to the administration, i.e. to the area in question. In fact, with the new institution of the Secretary-General, the government's independence is achieved to a large extent, because the Secretary-General, like the Director-General, is now chosen by the AACC and they are natural persons from the government. I repeat that this is an important first step. Finally, this bill also establishes a National Transparency Authority, in which the so far scattered audit authorities, such as the Body of Public Administration Inspectors, the Public Administration Inspector, Health Inspectors, Public Work Inspectors, are incorporated. The position of the Secretary-General in the ILO, the AEA and the Environmental Inspectors is also abolished and the responsibility is transferred to the Director-General, which is certainly not placed by the Government. This National Transparency Authority will only be controlled by Parliament and it is important that the commander of this authority is controlled by the Management Board. Therefore, there are also other types of insurance in order to be able to take an important step in the fight against corruption. I would say that with the draft legislation being passed, because it is precisely because all these diffuse provisions which have since relocated, these forty-five years, have been gathered, a new course is being drawn up for the functioning of the government and the state. In this sense, we are also consistent with what we have promised the Greek people. That is what Kyriakos Mitsotakis said, this is what we were saying as a New Democracy to the Greek people, along with other issues that concern other areas and we are doing. In fact, it is important that this initiative is taken from the early days of this government. Why is it important? Because we are also judged on the consistency of our actions and our reasons, and this bill comes to confirm this consistency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u95	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Raptis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am very moved to address the House today as parliamentarians and the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. This feeling is even stronger, because we are discussing the first bill of the new government, the bill for the final state. With this bill we are implementing an important institutional section for the present and the future of our country. Yesterday there was an initial constructive debate on the draft law, in which the extensive analysis by the Minister - whom I would like to thank for this step - and also the thorough debate that followed up to the early hours of the mornings contributed to understanding the basic provisions relating to the organisation of the state, the functioning of the government and the public administration. It is true that the diffuse provisions of the last forty years have been introduced in a single text and we know how important such an exercise is, but also how difficult it is. Innovative institutions are created and new rules are laid down in administrative action. The objective of the bill and the reason for its introduction is to have transparency in the way the institutions of the State operate, efficiency in the production and implementation of public policies and independence in the functioning of the public administration. As it emerged from yesterday's debate, it is common place in our country that despite the implementation of hard budgetary adjustment programmes in the years of the crisis, the administrative system failed to make it more effective. The parties to the public administration and the increase in the size of the public sector have had a negative impact on the functioning of the state, resulting in the confidence of citizens, businesses and, ultimately, society in the face of government institutions and public administration. I bet, therefore, of the present government is the establishment of a modern rule of law that will provide quality public services with respect to the Greek taxpayer's money. This is what we aspire to do with the introduction of this bill. Although the main institutional areas were analysed yesterday, I will remain in the following: we restore the constitutional division of responsibilities between the Ministerial Council, the Ministers and the Prime Minister and at last give the Minister the power to produce genuine public policy, with a coherent operational government plan, which will be implemented jointly by the relevant ministries. Coordination will take place on the basis of timetables and a standardised procedure ensuring accountability and transparency for all citizens, as well as speed in the implementation of public policies. Isn't that what we want, ladies and gentlemen? Speed in the implementation of the government project. The second institutional aspect is that we are doing the exodus of public administration. A lot has been heard in this Chamber, but the most important thing is that we have the Secretary-General in place in every ministry that we emphasise that it will be chosen exclusively by IASP procedures, without any intervention by the civil administration at all. You didn't like it! We legally transfer responsibility for the adoption of individual administrative acts of a specific nature to the Director-General of the public service concerned. What better? Because the aim of this regulation is to make a clear distinction between the pillar of the civil administration, as has been said, and that of the administration in order to have the absolutely clear roles and not to validate the party element on the administration. At the same time, however, specific time-limits and incentives are provided for the implementation of responsibilities within the deadlines laid down by the Directors-General. Because, as we have said, it is the speed of service for the citizen. We must not forget that we will maintain the general directors placed by your previous government, thus demonstrating our confidence and faith in the officials of public administration and then the state. The third institutional section is the famous monitoring of the government project planning unit. This unit is assigned to the President of the Government. The new institution is subject to the Prime Minister, but contrary to what Opposition claims not to concentrate powers, but to more effective coordination of individual ministries' policies again for the benefit of the citizens. By monitoring through an integrated system of advanced technology this implementation of the government project you are pushing to respect the years and supporting the Ministerial Council and the collective government bodies in the exercise of their responsibilities. Despite what has been heard in this Chamber, the ministers and the entire political hierarchy still has full competence in producing the necessary rules of law, as well as in monitoring the implementation of public policies. The fourth institutional principle is the National Transparency Authority, which, as we have said, incorporates scattered control structures to deal with public corruption. We all know that in the past responsibilities have largely overlap - this is well known - and of course arrhythmias have been observed in the existing control mechanisms. This principle, as has been pointed out, will be independent of the political leadership and will operate within the framework of new structures, particularly electronic control, and will be controlled by Parliament. All officials in this principle, all servants in the entities consolidated will be transferred to the principle that they become a universal successor to the scattered structures, while all checks continue to be carried out regularly. I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that both the Government and the Minister responsible in consultation and a constructive spirit have adopted many of the individual comments made by the bodies which have been heard in the relevant Standing Committee, the opinions expressed on the electronic consultation platform and on proposals for counter-population, such as the explicit maintenance of the multiannual programming of recruitment in the public sector, which the honourable Member has made integrating it into the text of the draft bill. That is because we do not claim infallibility, but instead we listen to the representatives of society who are our allies in the great national effort for a state of law, efficiency and modernity. However, once again in particular, the Qualification has shown that it does not understand the message of the elections of 7 July and the condemnation of the judiciary of the previous government period by the slogan "we or you" by the majority of the Greek people. Despite the high level of confessed political controversy on the bill in the relevant committee of Parliament, at yesterday's meeting the representatives of the Civilian Rector have returned to the well-known civil war rhetoric, trying to convince us that the bill deals with the creation of a pharaonic system of over-concentration of powers in the face of the Prime Minister for the ultimate control of the government and the administration, that a system that devaluates the role of the government is being introduced that an institution cancels the independent control that has been carried out so far by the independent authorities. Friends and friends, in relation to the Prime Minister's imperial privileges, in fact what the bill does is that it demarcates the actions of the Prime Minister who so far only moves in the area of practice and delineates it to meet his constitutional role. I would therefore stress that the responsibilities of the Prime Minister are not increased, simply systemified and enable him through the Presidency structure to monitor compliance with the objectives and actions set out in each ministry and to intervene. When? In the event of failure to comply with the timetables. Do you not want this monitoring of objectives, ladies and gentlemen? Do not forget that the process of coordination in the planning and monitoring of the government project was institutionalised in 2013 with Law 4109 and these provisions, SYRIZA maintained them and even you gave the Prime Minister and the General Secretariat of Coordination with Law 4590 of 2019. For the so-called hydro-headed service of the Presidency, which will now provide an increased number of four hundred posters and seconded officials, which we have heard against the channels since this morning, no more than that, because the planned number of posters, ladies and gentlemen, in the presidency of the government is falling by 28%. Take the decision! By 28% compared to the prime minister structures of your previous period. The General Secretariat of the Prime Minister had eighty-six posters of your own day. Your General Secretariat of Government had fifty - five posters. Your government's vice president had twenty arraignments. A total of sixty a poster. In the new structure of the Presidency, the poster will be a hundred and eight. I mean, fifty-three less. Furthermore, the Prime Minister's ability to do so is abolished, the Prime Minister's own ability to increase the number of posters. Finally, there is a reduction in the positions of general and special secretaries. The report by the General Accounting Office of the State itself says so. They're reduced from ninety-three to fifty-eight. We have 37% reduction and save EUR 1.9 million. With regard to the abolition of the self-interest in interrogation and control powers of the merged control structures, we understand your friend warfare against this new radical institution for the Greek state. You obviously prefer dispersed and conflicted audit services with appointed and excellent government special secretaries, as was, of course, done in your own regime. On the contrary, we are doing the transparency and accountability of public institutions with a truly independent authority. As laid down in Article 82 of the draft law, the established authority becomes a universal successor to the rights and obligations of the repealed entities. No one needs to be legal to understand what a Catholic heir will say. And all the checks carried out continue to be carried out. Finally, with regard to the allegedly reinstated partyism in the administration, complaints are completely unfounded. This is because the great innovation of the bill is that real confidence is attributed to civil servants. They are awarded extensive responsibilities and more incentives, as has been shown, from the direct transfer of responsibilities to the secretaries-general and directors-general, i.e. public career employees by reducing the cost of bureaucracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll make use of my dentistry, Mr. President. On the contrary, the register of directors you have instituted has also come into fiasco, since it has not actually been implemented for four years. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's first flagship legislative initiative aims above all at restoring citizens' confidence in the state institutions and improving their contact with the state so that they are served with speed, transparency and, above all, less bureaucracy. This bill, as it has been heard, has not been prepared in vitro, but is a source of productive cooperation of experts in these matters, such as the honourable Minister, experienced civil servants, officials from the National School of Public Administration and experts from many specialists who are aware of the issues in depth. So, by means of concrete acts, and by creatively changing public administration, we are setting firm foundations for the functioning of a modern government in a firm rule of law. Because times require radical thought and effective actions. But let's be honest. The real change in public administration and the incorporation of a true rule of law in the country require unity above all in society, but also in our political system, to permanently leave behind the bitter experience of the crisis by opening up the way for a new lighter Greece, as we promised the citizens. That is why we are calling on you and everyone to vote for and above all to support this great national effort. The Greeks are moving forward and we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Rapt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u99	Here, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u100	I want thirty seconds and I think I will express all my colleagues. The time is 19.00 p.m. The ranks of parliamentarians are dense. The Prime Minister will speak. You have announced yesterday that the process will end at 22.00 p.m. We are twenty-three, twenty-four here, who are not subject to the possibility of exercising the right to speak at will. That is to say, the seconds of the parliamentary representatives, which are summed up, and the ministers are speaking whenever they want to. I would ask you, therefore, to make an assessment and management of the time for the remaining twenty-three, twenty-four of us, who are to speak, tell us how many ministers will speak and how many Members will speak. Not everyone can fall together on the news reports between 19.00 and 20.30 seconds. It can't be done, it can't be! We also want you to tell us what time the Prime Minister will talk about getting to the 0.00 process and not all to listen to each other until 22.00 p.m. We need to know whether three others, two others or no one will speak. It's okay, but let's know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u101	We'll try to talk. But there must be understanding from everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u102	No math! No math!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u103	I'm going to give the floor from now on and I'm going to hold strict time. It's all I can do. I will summon Mr Velopoulos to Stepma for five minutes, because he has spoken for sixteen minutes in protology and has spoken for fourteen and a half minutes. Their parliamentary representative, as he writes here on paper. Please, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u104	The problem for us is that your paper writes some things, but for others it seems that it has Chinese ink and the letters disappear! I say this as a complaint to the Bureau, because it is continuing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u105	All the time is written.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u106	Here's what I'm saying, Mr. President. I know what happened yesterday. So leave it better, because we'll all be exposed and there's no reason. So let's actually go. I start by saying this: many centuries ago, Minister, Aristotle had said something very wise: man's special superiority is what distinguishes him from animals, namely logic. All you brought us here is an insanity and I'll prove it. Article 21, the NSA under the jurisdiction of the Prime Minister. Article 21, the Legal Board of the State to the Prime Minister. Article 21, Court of Auditors Office to the Prime Minister. Article 28, ERT, RES, Macedonian News Agency to the Prime Minister. Article 41, the Prime Minister shall appoint Secretary-General. Article 42, the Prime Minister shall appoint Special Secretaries. Article 66, the Prime Minister shall select President, Vice-President and members of the Central Committee for Coding CEC. Article 82, the Prime Minister shall establish a National Transparency Authority by abolishing six sections, Secretary General for the Combating Corruption, College of Auditors, Office of the Public Administration Inspectorate, PSYP, Body of Public Work Inspectors. At the same time in article 117 it says that the first president of the National Transparency Authority is chosen by the Prime Minister. Article 111, the Prime Minister shall select a Director-General of the National Office. Article 113, the Prime Minister shall select President of the Commission "Greece '21". President is Mrs Angelopoulos, who was Mr. Tsipras. I don't know if you remember where he took Mr. Tsipras to America. This was appointed by the Prime Minister, not the MPs. I'm sure a lot of them disagree. The Prime Minister is authorized to publish FEK. It defines persons of unknown value to the Prime Minister. Article 117(2), the powers of the repealed bodies shall go to the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no Prime Minister. We have a god! Only a god can do all this. And because Mr. Mitsotakis is not a god - one is God - make sure he fails. It's over and over! I say this to distinguish the seriousness of the 'asbestos'. Let's go to Mrs. Thanou. Here, Minister, you're fucked. And while you're written, you proved unwritten. Retrospective power in law only George Papadopoulos did, to marry. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr. Plori, you can't yell underneath. Let's actually go now. The Competition Committee is provided by Community law, whether or not? It's set. Is it the first committee in Greece before we enter the EEC? Yes or no? Yeah, and it's since 1977. I'll tell you something. We speak from a position of principle and not from a position of position. You're right. Mrs Thanos is SYRIZA, don't be fooled. It's proven and they don't need any evidence. I'm not talking about it. But you have a mistake. For the Ambassadors' deal, you say that the state has a continuity. But here, you reject the fact that the state is constantly in place. Decide. If the state keeps up, you must also accept Mrs Thanos. If the State does not have any follow-up, then you must reject and abolish the Ambassadors' Agreement. You won't make fun of the Greek people in here! It's over and over! That's done with us! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It's a joke. We cannot, whenever we want the state to keep up with it and whenever we do not want or suit us, the state must be inconsistent. It can't be done! You're either going this way or you're going that way. At some point in the Greek people, we will tell all the things that happen if they happen. I said it yesterday. My view is that the retired judge - and he gets a very good pension, Minister, and I wish he would - has no job in these seats. The retired judge must not be civilized after his retirement. It's our opinion. We might be wrong. But if while he is a judge he has a party and a political authority in his mind, then the complexion can stand to a certain extent. And that applies to Mrs Thanos, Mr. Athanasios and Mr. Pikrammenos, for all the judges. I am not saying that it is not their right to go down to the election, but there must be incompatibility. But justice, our authority. Separate them sometime. Let's go to the rest. The 'golden' rule, honourable Members - and Tracy has said so - is as follows: command the others, as you want to be commanded. If today's law was brought by them here, by SYRIZA, you would all scream together that this is an anxiocratic, it's a party, it's contradictory, it's absurd. Today you applaud, today you say good, when you are making suggestions of reproach and saying such things. And you did well, because it is unreasonable, and it is not democratic, what you are tabling. Let's go to the other ones. At the offices of Prime Minister four hundred seventy-seven employees. Not to say about Mr. Dimitriadis, nephew, etc., "ENERGA" etc. You remember the 'ENERGA' case. He's in the Prime Minister's office. All these things show that there is a matter. It says 'non-compliance with practices', general and special secretary's payroll from the President of the Government of 128,000 euros. The secretaries of the Ministries are 500,000 euros. The Public Administration Observatory that the outgoing government has recently created is repealed. All these things show that something's wrong here, something's wrong. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of Greek Solution is ringing.]] In conclusion, I will say something serious, because time is pressing and Mr Bourras is not upset. I have here in front of me posts of zougla.gr. It's a site. Today, it is officially shaken - Mrs Bakoyannis has known this for years - it has been handled from Turkey's minority point of view in Kos and in Rhodes. They shake it once more. I put the zougla.gr report into practice, to be careful, because it comes, I will say it directly, hurricane, a hurricane who, Minister, can take us all together. [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I ask a question and I close here: If they go to the forty nautical miles south of Kastelorizos, the Turks and pierce with the drill, the red line of the Greek Parliament from the left to the right side, do we know who it is or will again be left with our Prime Minister, as Tsipras did with Skopje and agree to a betrayal, for me, in a wrong, shameful agreement at the Prespes? Will the Prime Minister agree whether or not to drill the Turks there, or do we have a red line in here that we will not allow anyone, Minister and colleagues of the New Democracy, to play with our national - sovereign rights? Is the question: 'Red' lines available to Greece or are they all 'pink'? And of course, I'll say something here to the PASOK comrades. A few years ago, just the day before, it was August 9, Andreas Papandreou said something in here. He said: 'Drop Hora'. A lot of people remember it, maybe the older people, and I say it about history. Maybe it's time to bring it back: "Drop the Yavoise" if it gets to Kastelorizo, yes or no? If he gets to Kastelorizo, what do we do? That's the question. These are the important ones. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I shall close, Mr President, by saying this. It's not bad to make mistakes. Honestly, we all make mistakes and I can make a lot of mistakes. It's bad to insist on wrong. And that's wrong, we don't have a kingdom, we don't have a monarchy, we don't have a dictatorship to decide on the fates of all the others. You are mistaken and this will be fatal in the governance of the place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, as today, seventy-four years ago Hiroshima was bombed with an atomic bomb. Hundreds of thousands were the victims. The Greek Parliament honoring the memory of innocent victims, insisting that the only way is peace, keeps a minute of silence. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] We continue the process and call for the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis at Step. Mr Gregoriadis, you have the floor for six minutes, because your President has taken the lead, and that is why half the time is falling.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u108	A moment ago I asked and I was told that I had 12 minutes, but I will make some adjustments and try to be quick, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u109	Try to limit your speech a little, because, as you can see, there are still twenty-six colleagues, two ministers - to answer Mrs Canelle - and there is the Prime Minister's speech. After the Prime Minister's speech, we will weight the time and set out so that the procedure goes ahead, that all colleagues speak and, in any case, that the rapporteurs, as they have demanded, are also right. Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the administration of the state of a debt colony, as it seems, is not an easy case for anyone, neither for the Right nor for the Left. When it happens strangely that the Left achieves better results in such a management, thereby taking the credits and praises of the institutions or the troika - where each party prefers - then, in my opinion, two interesting facts arise. Firstly, the left is self-determined, i.e. it is no longer left, and the right is somewhat losing its identity. Will you tell me, what the state has to do with, and indeed the state that we are talking about today, the state you are planning, whether we are or are not bankers? I will answer directly - from the outset and to finish - that if our state were not so indestructive for so many decades, so opaque, so unbearablely dysfunctional for its citizens, so deeply party and very often - I am sorry and embarrassed to say so - you and I, in all likelihood, would not even be bankrupt. Let us now see together how the state of a debt colony works, in line with the objectives of your bill, and I mean the objectives you have set for this bill. With these objectives, therefore, the state of a debt-sharing - like ours, a good time - is strictly partisan, and it must therefore be lifted up urgently, it acts totally bureaucraticly, afflicting its citizens - its citizens. It usually has ministerial contracts which the ministers are almost never allowed to cultivate their creativity, as a result of policies and thus fatalize the role of the puppet of their respective Prime Minister. Finally, it is an entirely non-transparent state that must finally achieve transparency, in line with the objectives you have set. You know what, ladies and gentlemen? We're totally in agreement. You know, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy and SYRIZA Members, why do we have to change - and, at once, all this in our state? Because you failed. I'm sorry to say that, but just because you failed. You, of SYRIZA, failed less is the truth for four and a half years. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy - I am sorry again to say this - you have been systematically failing in this area for over half a century now. And if SYRIZA could accuse him of saying that for four and a half years it has not been in the mood to really put it with the pathogens of our state, I am afraid that for New Democracy one could reasonably claim to have created to a large extent - consciously and systematically - all of these above-mentioned diseases. You know, ladies and gentlemen, all these pathogens don't suddenly fall like rain from heaven. No nine hundred and fifty-two thousand people were found at random in public, according to the 2009 census. Someone appointed them. It was no accident that the most obedient of these people - party obedients, I mean - the caecedaurs in our state's supreme office. Not all of these were randomly recruited under conditions of absolute opacity. And they have not been held for decades now all these people, as well as their families, as prisoners, as hostages of a paranoid election clientele. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Over the last hundreds of thousands of appointments that have taken place in the last four decades in the country have been carried out by your own side, with the same name as the New Democracy, and, of course, by assisting all of them - on the other hand - to say it all - on the other hand, the very big, great part of the post-population of PASOK. As, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot demand that all of us have a goldfish memory, we must tell the New Democracy that we now have serious doubts not only about whether it can improve our state to a minimum, but also - and I am truly sorry to say this - whether, in fact, it really wants to or should we say it a little more marketable, if it is, in the end, to improve that state. Otherwise, the New Democracy - and it should - could have done so only four and a half years ago. Being in front of us today, too, urging people, with the sword of the cleansing of the public by hand - I repeat - in just four years' time since you left power, it is a political behaviour that, let me say, moves to the limits of the ridiculous but, unfortunately - and, unfortunately, - to the limits of the tragic situation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As for you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA's former partners, if four and a half years were not enough to collide with the troika and institutions - there you conspired early, we know - but with the client and party state that established in our place New Democracy and the PASOK and, on the contrary, you tried to use it, to insulate it and enrich it with your own people, just to keep it, like all the others before you, in power, we are unfortunately in the unpleasant position to inform you that apart from the motto "first left" there is - and we tell you with soul - and the motto "first time the Left gives the right to return so easily again". I'm not going to deal with this bill that you're bringing today, Mr. Gerapetritis...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u111	Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u112	I take the opportunity to thank you for the political culture you have shown these days. He's rare. It honors you and really is touching. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. I'm not going to deal with extensively, I said. You didn't hear my whole phrase. I'll be a little busy. And with our objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u113	That's nice of you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u114	Other speakers have said so in detail from my party and other parties. I will be content to say here that the detailed study of the articles in the bill undermines and eventually makes the announcements for your four main objectives perforated, as it clearly is further partisan of the state, makes it even more centralized and, indeed, strictly around the face of the Prime Minister, much more bureaucratic, creating another four hundred forty seats of cartel. Finally, it seems to be eradicating the only light that existed in the minimum transparency and dignity with the absolute non-transparent recommendation of the government Presidency and the utterly unworthy, scandalous, one would say, a premium for the recruitment interview that, in fact, is bypassing the ADP. However, ladies and gentlemen, even if we accept that the bill you are going to vote on today is absolutely right and fair and heals as magically all the paths of our state and that we at Mera25 have made a mistake in all our reasons for this...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u115	Close, Mr. Gregoryde.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u116	...even if tomorrow morning the app...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u117	Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u118	Excuse me, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u119	Time is very limited. Close with your last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u120	I'll go. Even if we accept that as a miracle tomorrow our state would be a model state, which would be envyd by the Scandinavians, who would serve that state? Who? The seven hundred fifty thousand, eighteen to twenty-four years old, who escaped to survive? The almost one million of our people who are unemployed and the only relationship with the state they have is the OAED, which pays them every six months or every month for three or six months? 40% of the country's labour force working on wages below 250 euros mixed? Or the two hundred thousand businessmen, represented by you, who have closed their operations for the past nine years? Even if you succeeded, then...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u121	Report to the Minutes the rest of your speech. No more time, please warmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u122	One second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u123	Oh, no. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u124	...a model state, but you continued to keep your guilty secret to yourself, away from the ears of the innocent people...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u125	The rest of your speech, give it to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u126	...he is constantly in this Chamber and he is screaming at a voice that says that as long as you continue together New Democracy and SYRIZA demonize the only possibility of escape that we are left with, the rupture, and don't sit down and discuss seriously about it, then this, like all the bills you bring in in the future, will look like exercises on the map of demobilized generals who have not even been informed about their retiring and who are still struggling to conquer some height. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u127	Good. Thank you. The Minister has the floor to announce some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, I would like to put forward the legislative improvements with little quorum and, in addition, to incorporate two essential differences. The first is in line with what the former Minister, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, said. All the Heads of Units of the Authority will be there by the public service posted and not by the transferees of private individuals. In addition, in the context of the debate that has taken place yesterday and today, it changes the wording of Article 113(1), which is renumbered, so that there is no doubt as to the extent of the competences assumed by the new Commission ‘Greece 2020-2021’. The word is among the responsibilities it assumes "the creation of a single image of the country and the institutions of the Greek state", so that there is no national reference, although in any case this did not apply in any case as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u129	I would ask that they be distributed to colleagues. Thank you, Minister. Mr Dimitrios Kouvellas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am for the first time as a Member of this House, addressing the Plenary Assembly of the National Representation. I want to wish good strength, health above all and good results in our work for the benefit of the citizens. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We are talking about the ultimate state, which is a sovereign, a very important, top priority - I would say - a pro-election declaration, as developed by the Prime Minister today, Mr Mitsotakis. As a first bill, therefore, an extremely important bill, which is a reform section for the functioning of the government and the entire central government. The final state, as presented in detail, works at the outset that it first plans public policies and then monitors and evaluates their implementation. I'm going to make a few general remarks. For the first time in time, we have a concentration and standardisation of the operational procedures and structures of the executive on the one hand and the central administration on the other, following good administrative systems in Europe and not just. An effective Task Force is being created, as the presidency of the Government has rightly described. A system is introduced where there were scattered and many times contradictory provisions. Clear structures and responsibilities are provided for. Emphasis is placed on both programming and monitoring of governmental work, but also on good legislature. The highest publicity shall be established in practice with the institution of the Secretary-General of the Ministries. It reduces the Greek state's control and accountability deficit over time through a strong independent authority, the National Transparency Authority. I would like to focus on the following points, which, in my opinion, are important reforms and will unreservedly improve the everyday life and life of Greek citizens. Point One: The basic concept that makes its appearance and runs the entire bill is responsibility. For the first time in the history of post-population, a different model of governance is chosen that meets the political risk, according to which the government must be accountable to all citizens for its policies and actions. As we know, the Greek people choose a party and vote in the national elections with two facts: first, they know who the Prime Minister will be, since their party wins the elections. Secondly, he knows the government policy that the Prime Minister will try to implement, having followed his election announcements. And that is what the sovereign people are interested in, the implementation of the policies they have adopted. Such joys were not experienced by the Greek people during the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict, on the contrary, it was a period of frustration and shit. The draft law on the final state is aimed precisely at it. The enhanced role of the Ministerial Council, chaired by the Prime Minister, ensures not only the implementation of popularly legitimised government policy, but also the taking of responsibility, so that citizens know who, when they answer, what the control burden is, what is incompatible with the entire government, but also with the administrative pyramid. And that's a great change of attitude about the political life of our country. Some of the Vice-Population colleagues talked about introducing a prime minister model - emperor. On the contrary, I would say to you that the Prime Minister in charge, who is not behind ministers or other state officials on the allegedly case-by-case basis, has also been used - a lack of information or the ignorance of whether television cameras were in operation. Point two. The reopening of the state is not verbalism. It is a real need with immediate consequences for the daily lives of the citizen and the economy itself. As international organisations point out, maladministration in Greece, despite the related improvements that have been presented over the last decade, is the main brake on development. This bill puts an end to maladministration. By adopting individual administrative acts now by the Director-General, the senior civil servant and not by the Minister, as envisaged to date, bureaucracy, time to respond and will ensure the elaboration of the entire administrative procedure, giving a key hit to the retrograde client state. Is it not more functional, transparent and modern to grant, for example, a licence to start a profession - other colleagues have mentioned it - or to run a shop or to make a decision to fill gaps in schools and hospitals at the level of the administration without the time-consuming signature by the Minister now being required? Obviously, yes. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis practically shows our government's confidence in civil servants and officials of the state mechanism, without putting a party sign. Point 3. There is an end to pluralism, to scattered and malicious laws many times. From my experience as a lawyer I know very well what this means, what relief it will be for all steps that have every day to use legislation as a tool. With the legislative improvement and codification envisaged, the life of the citizen, who himself will be able to find legislation easily, the law which concerns him, but also to understand it, without the legal certainty of the past. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would ask for a minute's tolerance. It is my first speech in plenary, and I thank you in advance for your understanding. Point fourth, the adoption of international best practice by creating a single Independent Transparency Authority, which will consolidate the sense of confidence and transparency, of course, and above all will aim at effective anti-corruption. How do we expect to defeat the 'dragon' of corruption? With fragmented powers? Can we be satisfied with the existence of six different existing public audit bodies, which have a certain scope of control, but without the possibility of confirming an infringement that does not concern them? The only reason for this principle to be established and introduced is to feel that this government is practicing it with corruption and means to go through the euphemisms in the works. To sum up - and I close - I would like to say that this draft law forms the new model of governance that now meets the current cheques, using the most advanced tools and governance policies. It allows for the creation of a strategic long-term plan for the country, following on from the state and institutional memory that does not depend on the changes of governments in power, not even on government reshapings that will take place within the same government. The efficiency, transparency and measurable efficiency that the state will characterise will be the source of the good that is expected, with the first and most essential aim of consolidating public confidence in state structures, with the main aim of developing our homeland. And I cannot, as a new Member, make a reference to the experience I have had since the debate on this first bill in committees and in plenary. It has given me an excellent impression and I feel the need to say that the permanent presence of the Minister responsible, Mr Gerapitridis, and his genuine involvement in the debate of the bill has given me prestige in the parliamentary process, in the legislative work and I think it is good practice, which I hope we will see throughout our term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u131	Mrs. Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u132	Prime Minister, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think there is anyone or anyone in this Chamber who does not believe that modernising the state and public administration is an undeniable necessity, a priority and a prerequisite for the country to escape stagnation, to heal its wounds after the ten-year crisis in which we are in and essentially to move towards growth with social justice and respect for the citizen. Despite the fact that we all recognise this need, a major reform, unfortunately we have so far failed as a political system to agree on an integrated, comprehensive three-way plan, as I believe, basic axes: the state, the hitting of bureaucracy and decentralisation, by transferring important responsibilities to self-government. Finally, it is a matter of political will and, unfortunately, neither the SYRIZA governments have shown - nor the New Democracy Government today - that they have this political will, despite their words, when they are in opposition. Generally they treat the state as a party spoil. Today a bill is introduced to the House, which, on the basis of the Minister's words, aims to upgrade the institutions as a whole so that democracy can find a modern footprint. Many and important changes in the public administration have been made over time, with the top of the PASP, the "GENERAL" and the serious areas of self-government, which all, ladies and gentlemen, bear the seal of PASOK. However, the reform of the reform remains a matter of concern, namely the reform of the Greek state by creating a truly efficient state. This requires a comprehensive bold plan with objectives, as well as a specific timetable for linking actions with objectives. Undoubtedly, the crisis has highlighted the diseases of public administration. What we keep hearing from citizens is either that there is no state or that this state does not work. And that is precisely the big issue, the big issue, to which we are called upon to give convincing answers. In this draft law, the Government of New Democracy circumvents the conquests of the Greek state, such as public consultation. It now submits a draft law on the final state, without having posted this bill for consultation at the Open Gov. Minister, you have had a lot of time at your disposal to inform the citizens of the bill. Why don't you do it? Does this serve the principles of good legislature? Of course, what we have to recognise in positive terms is that the Minister has heard and accepted a number of changes in opposition, as was the result of the debate in the committees. But, Minister, that does not change the essence. However, it remains noteworthy that the aim of the bill is to depopulation of positions and the proper functioning of the state. How exactly do you define that, Minister? Let me just remind you that as far as the previous government's law is concerned - I am referring to L.4369/2016 - for permanent general secretaries of five years, as an opposition you strongly denounced, accusing the then government of biographic candidates who were in ministerial offices. And now you come and place your own Secretary-General on duty in the Ministries, insisting that these positions are political. What are you doing? You do exactly what you blamed. Minister, if you think you will solve the chronic problems that arouses public administration simply by giving superpowers to the prime minister's office and by strengthening a prime minister's model, with personnel, even forty hundred employees - or maybe more? If you believe that the demolition of public administration will occur simply by nominating general secretaries and setting up institutions with shared responsibilities, with the general and special secretaries and without actually reducing either the number of secretaries or the number of consignors, despite your election commitments. If you think that you are pressing red tape by disseminating that decisions will be taken by the service administration, because you trust, you say, public service, and at the same time, at the same time, singing the responsibilities of state units with practical and symbolic value. If you think it is a reform or, for the first time, subject to the concept of the central state of the independent authorities, which is legal and constitutionally inappropriate, or that it is a reform that the institution of the Public Administration Inspector General is abolished, we are surely and sadly told that with this draft law and with most regulations you are simply making a hole in the water! In conditions of fiscal inefficiency and time pressure, one would say that a "big bang" reformist is required in public administration, not fragmentary arrangements that contribute to the over-concentration of the state structure. The aim should be to decentralise and simplify procedures. We, in the Change Movement, have a firm position that the state needs a comprehensive reform plan. We need the establishment of a coordinating governance centre for more effective control of governmental work and public administration. It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to reform the central offices of the Ministries by restructuring their organizational structures. It is also necessary to distinguish the powers of the public administration, on the one hand, to support and staff, exercised by the ministries, and, on the other hand, to executives, who will gradually decentralise locally and in materially competent bodies and, in particular, to self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, public reform is now more than ever necessary. In order to become a reality, however, not a fast track of bills, but a national understanding and synergy are required. If they exist, then success is certain. Unfortunately, however, this bill does not work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u133	The Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, allow me to begin with a historical reference. "To whomever this Greek state, have the body of space and the oversized head, shall it, as a raki, as an abhorrent man, move the inhabited earth as a laughable one?" When Alexander Sutsos made this hot satirical question in 1848, the Greek state had just grown up. Unfortunately, a hundred and seventy years later, one could to some extent make the same description: State with a big head and an inch body, a state that often continues to provoke tears of despair to its citizens. And that state at last has a duty to change it. Let me start with three stigmats, which will not be long before they appear in public life. Image first: A Ministerial Council which meets regularly and scheduled once a month, implementing the government plan. The ministers legislate and the timetables monitor an electronic system, "Together", while the Prime Minister and his staff are coordinated, as is the case in all the serious countries of the world. Figure 2: The State now has a simple code of operation that condenses and simplifies all scattered forty years. He is commanded, as far as his service arm is concerned, by general secretaries of the hierarchy of the State. Its operation is transparent and electronic. And that guarantees a new control authority at all levels. Image third and more important: A citizen who no longer holds up red tape. Many individual administrative acts - all in fact - are now signed by a Director-General and not by his political leader and the queues are stopped, since contacts with the state are now only electronically. All of these tents essentially describe the content and objectives of what we call an effective state. We start at home, how the government works itself. This is the first methodical and systematic reorganization of its action. We continue with the upgrading of the great patient, which is the state itself, through an overall intersection in the operation of the administration itself. Both these interventions serve four major changes throughout public life. Firstly, the government becomes collective, but at the same time effective and rapid. Instead of acting as a separate feud, the ministries incorporate their actions into a common programming. The Ministerial Council is now voting for everything and the vertical structure of the Presidency of the Government assists the Prime Minister in the role that the Constitution itself gives him. Secondly, public administration is picking up and its executives are being upgraded. A General Secretary with a three-year term of office, selected exclusively by the AACC, shall be established in each Ministry. More importantly, the Director-General acquires the right to sign in individual administrative acts. Thirdly, bureaucracy is estimated to be the largest in Europe. It costs 7% of GDP. We have produced an average of one law in the last few years per week and between four and five presidential decrees. It solves this problem - it is at least dealt with - with a special secretariat which has as its sole purpose the consolidation of regulations by studying their consequences in a timely manner by correcting any failures. The purpose is - and I imagine we will agree on this - to have fewer but better laws. Finally, members of the political and administrative leadership are now working in the light of the outcome. Everyone signs a performance contract, and specifically inconsistently excludes conflict of interest. A National Transparency Authority shall be established in which six scattered control bodies are collected. I will come back to this later. Ladies and gentlemen, it was rightly by some colleagues that this bill was described as a manual for the effective action of the government structure, and I believe that some people rightly called it a radical model for a functioning state of the 21st century. However, it is not just an organisational structure that better settles public function. It is an important political initiative, which ultimately also has a substantial social content and a set of parallel reforms for the country's effective modernisation. That is why we have chosen the new state to be just the second of the three flagrant bills of the first weeks of our term of office. Today, all research shows that the prosperity of the states and their peoples depends not only on their geographical location, on the rich production sources, on their culture, but also on the quality of their political and economic institutions. The more robust and functional a democracy is the richer a country. And they are, ultimately, the institutions that define their conservative or progressive mark. To what extent does an executive function with clear responsibilities and long-term planning, which will not be disturbed by changes in governments or even by reshapings and who, in the end, favours a public administration that acts quickly, but has control over any of its actions? And who, ultimately, benefits from eliminating this huge and silent cost, which is called distrust, lack of confidence in the government, but also in the state and institutions as a whole? Bad lies! In democracy, the most valuable resource is the faith of citizens in institutions that define the rules governing their lives. It is the adhesive of every society, but it is also a prerequisite for the trust of foreign investors, which will in turn be translated into the development of the national economy for the benefit of many. The compromise with old pathogens today means maintenance, while restoring modern and functional institutions is a progressive option. On the other hand, a government fragmented and a multi-teacher state do not help a country asking to leave the crisis behind. The first, the fragmented government, can decide, but without the second, the multi-fashioned state can certainly grow and cost, but without finally producing. Their perpetuation, therefore, ultimately marks a conservative position, while the search for central authority and administration, which resolve the problems of the citizens, is now a genuinely progressive demand. I will say this again: progress today means above all results, it means making the lives of our citizens better. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who have implemented reforms know that the changes that are often promoted without proper planning and implementation are doomed to remain on paper. We have seen this all over the past few years, when proclamations that sounded up to revolutionary times were quickly forgotten and glorious plans were immediately found in ponds. We do not legislate in a social and institutional vacuum. We are well aware of the difficulties, we do not underestimate the stiffness. In order to introduce this draft law, we have studied the specific arrangements very carefully and consulted the international experience. In advanced countries such as these, which we are introducing today, they have long been valid. Of course, we discussed several times before this bill arrived in plenary. The changes that have been accepted to the committee by the relevant minister, observations by bodies, comments by the opposition, many have been accepted, prove that this government knows how to hear, that when it speaks of consultation within Parliament, it means it and that seeking consensus is a permanent objective for us, not so that a bill can be passed more easily. After all, we have a strong parliamentary majority. But the purpose of Parliament's consultation is to improve the bills, and this bill comes to a vote in plenary otherwise than it was when it was introduced into the committee. And that for us is a victory for political dialogue, it is a victory for parliamentarianism as a whole. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And it is not, Mr President, the practice followed by the majority in Parliament throughout the entire parliamentary term that we will enjoy Parliament's confidence and we will legislate, because we want the House, the work being done in committee, to be an essential job. I, too, had the opportunity to follow the debate in the committee responsible and the picture I had - and all the Members of Parliament contributed - was the image of an upgraded debate on their quality at least, but also on the spirit and style of political dialogue. And I really hope that will continue from now on. So we incorporate every fertile point of view. Our aim is to reform without demolition. However, we also have to ask for the follow-up. We have to change the state while it works. Of all the above, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the political content and social aim of the state of staff are clearly apparent, and so is our availability for cross-party convergences in its implementation. In other words, it is clear that we are not simply promoting a narrow organisational chart of political practice, but a set of rules that are 'blooded' by our concern for the ordinary citizen. Because it is our intention to make the state better for the benefit of the many, to reform, that is, government and state in common, for the common good. It is precisely for this reason, however, that some responses to the main objections to the Opposition that the bill has given the Prime Minister overpower and a numerous staff, that he allegedly is partying to the state machine and, finally, that it abolishes transparency, by changing the composition of authorities and bodies with responsibility for control activities. So we have, and we say: answer one. It is rather inappropriate to coordinate and closely monitor the government's work to baptize "concentration" and even a party that, as a government of constant contradictions, cost a lot in the country, when it spends a catastrophic semester, without the Prime Minister controlling what the Minister of Finance is doing, when by signing agreements with "COSCO" that some others were trying to abolish in Piraeus and when by deciding as Maximos investment in Greek, but by scoring it immediately as Ministry of Culture. The same applies to the presidency of the government. They cannot speak of a multitude of advisors who have multiplyed posters, setting up positions at will, nor are those who have made the prime environment a workshop to transform old partners into new ministers. The truth is one: The government's scheme actually acquires a vertical structure and, yes, acquires horizontal coordination. Basically, it acquires the typical distribution of roles it entrusts to the state institutions itself, and still demarcates the actions of the Prime Minister himself. As for numbers, they speak for themselves. The post-mortem partners in the prime-ministerial structures from a hundred sixty-one are being reduced to eight, the general and special secretaries are being reduced from ninety-three to fifty-eight, and the number of posters is falling by 12%, and a ceiling is set on the power of the prime minister's office, which has never been the case until now. In other words, our aim is to promote the coordination and effectiveness of the government work and the Ministerial Council to act as a clamped-up machine, implementing a programme for which we have received legalisation from the Greek people. We do nothing other than do all the serious states in how the executive and the Ministerial Council operate. To tolerate dispersed opinions, Ministers that each has its full independence and acts without any coordination with the government centre, is a practice that has not in the past promoted the effectiveness of government work. Answer two: You will agree - and I imagine - that the word 'communisation' does not fit in mouths that said 'after the government we must also take power', nor those who, after setting up party secretary-general at the Ministries, then did photographic notices so that they could be chosen in a prestigious manner. Some even got the candidates' files at home. The truth is one. The Secretary-General shall now be established in each Ministry. He will be a public career manager, chosen by the AACC, responsible for staff, expenditure and coordination of public policies. At the same time, all the general directors, gentlemen of counter-population, who have been chosen by your own procedures, are given the right to sign. It was objective procedures, I did not question that. Do not forget that soon all civil procedures and contacts with the public will be digital. So those in danger of alleged redundancies and partyism in public should admit it. It is the New Democracy that trusts and modernises the public administration, which gives prestige and dignity to the civil servant and which upgrades the role of competent state officials. It is no coincidence that every line of this bill has been drafted not by an external legal office but by graduates of the National School of Public Administration. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The third answer is also easy. Who is, in fact, satisfied with a system that brought our country to the latest positions in the transparency indicators and what performance they had, in fact, had, six different and often overlapping corruption monitoring bodies, and how independently have control bodies appointed for the head of the posted secretary appointed by the government, in a government which also had its own Minister, to regulate the fight against corruption? Controller and audited are merging, in other words, to the same person. In other countries, therefore, Greece finally acquires a single National Transparency Authority. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We fully respond to the OECD guidelines. We don't find out about the powder. We are making use of the technical assistance you have requested and fully incorporating the OECD proposals, on how this National Transparency Authority should function. And the head of authority will be selected by an open competition from an independent committee, and all management control bodies will be consolidated. The servants of the six old bodies are transported and continue every work they have in progress. Their directors will no longer be designated by the government, but will also be subject to open competition. In other words, there is a real institutional and operational dismantling of the control of corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time for Sutsu's words that I invoke at first, that they no longer give rise to a compromise with the constant balm but that major assumptions and radical choices should be made. We ourselves are now being called upon to change our lives, to gain the powerful way of governance that the country needs, together with the modern state that we deserve. Our Constitution does indeed provide for a strong executive power. Some call it a pre-centric. But the transaction proves that the application of this model makes it falsely centralised. Let us not forget that forty-five years some of them have been in power for some of them with a great political displacement, a very strong people's mandate. The government's structure, however, has always had loose institutional armour, internal inconsistencies and very often incomplete documentation. It seldom succeeded in maintaining the confidence of citizens. The reasons are the lack of a joint plan, interministerial coordination and cooperation with management. What was the known medicine to deal with these pathogens? A glimpse of the successive changes in the decisions and of the hundreds of reconversions gives the answer. For decades the solution has just been to change faces, rather than broaden and remain solid since proper planning and supervision institutions have rooted out. This is precisely the problem facing the innovative system of governmental operation introduced by this bill, strengthening central power, coordinating its ministerial arms to monitor the implementation of its work, giving rapid solutions, on the basis of the programme for which the government majority was voted on. On the other front again, the public administration's image, unfortunately, is no different. No one is proud of the services that our State is currently providing, but neither is it from the post of civil servant. A humane state with many tentacles, with little coordination, becomes a superfood and slow state. Without surveillance, he remains exposed to opacity. There is no loyalty and it distorts its offer to them on whose behalf it is supposed to exist. Causes: coercion with policy, failure to monitor progress by sector, the absence of any process of transparency and evaluation. We know the results. Ruffles, squabbles of side power and often the wrong people in the wrong positions and, obviously, the final conclusion is backwards, waste of valuable time and money, of course, public. These pathogens attempt to respond our arrangements for the perfect state, by dismantling its operation, by transferring important administrative material from political leadership to its own executives, to the members of the public administration themselves, by assessing their action, by providing the digital allies, so that the administration can become truly public, so that the new friendly state can again be legitimised in the awareness of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I have so far tried to highlight some of the most important areas that the bill brings to the way the government and the state operates. I explained his aim and his political content and describing the current situation, and I wanted to highlight his progressive modernist but also extremely urgent nature. I close with the hope that many of us and those who have been attending have fertilely considered us from this debate and that they have concluded that, as much as our subsequent moves are like an open hopeful bet, they are also a one-way road to tomorrow, because declaring means regression and regression, these citizens have already paid very expensively. They know it leads to dead ends and they've returned a page. Greece has been behind developments for a long time. Many pathogens of the past have been exacerbated, abused in recent years, but we still have a chance to win lost time. We are traveling on a powerful ship of a strong parliamentary majority, which the people have chosen in the elections of 7 July. And what is needed at this time is homeland, necessary coordination and appropriate action tools so that these favourable conditions exist, that all positive factors can quickly and certainly bring the best result. This is precisely what these needs are serving, ladies and gentlemen, the bill for the final state, and that is why I call on everyone and everyone to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u135	The Chief of Staff Response has asked for the floor, Mr. Alexis Tsipras. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Mitsotakis, I heard your position, your speech. You have, of course, presented yourself in the best way possible with the bill, which concerns you in the better organization of the state. But you said things that are far from the reality, and that is why I asked for the floor for ten minutes with the President's tolerance. I won't be long. Mr. Mitsotakis, an issue is the best organization of the state. I understand that you starting your term as Prime Minister, in advance, do not show confidence in your own ministers, but this is your issue. I hope that the shape you have decided on proves effective in practice, but I am very afraid. But I didn't take the floor for that. I took the floor to restore a number of issues that have been heard all these days, they have been written, but also against a coronary in the four-and-a-half years in which we in the government were both and the media that supported the opposition at that time, you have referred extensively to targeting our partners unjustly and forming a false picture of the reality, a picture which is unfortunately reproduced in the media today, the picture that the SYRIZA government was supposed to have raised the number of posters. I read today a false post from the newspaper "PRO THEM" that from the thousand eight hundred eighty eighty-eight, says, posted in December 2014 with the SYRIZA government reached two thousand six hundred nine hundred ninety-nine. You also referred to it, but no figures, according to the figures. To make this House aware of the smuggling you are attempting - you have attempted and continue to attempt - I will explain as briefly as I can, why this has been the case all this time. By 2015, in the retired staff census, special advisers, special associates, scientific associates were not recorded. Only the mere transceivers, who were not even half of them, were recorded. They were far less than half of them. I give you a typical example. At the office of the Minister of Health, Mr Voridis, only to the Minister - not to a Deputy or State Secretary, Secretary-General, etc. - they served a total of fifty three people. Do you know how many of them were posthumous? Only the eight. Fourteen special advisers, four specialist scientific staff, two journalists, fourteen seconded and eleven made available to the Minister of Health. Where? Of course. And that wasn't a special case. In all ministries, that was the case. You guys who are talking here swinging the finger for the poster on SYRIZA, you left the Department of Administrative Reform with fifty-two, if I'm not mistaken, post-paid employees. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, Minister for Administrative Reform, had 12 posted officials. So here we have a smuggling ongoing, a distortion, which obviously meant to create the false impression that the SYRIZA government was supposed to have created an army of co-workers, wanting to take over the state. And if you only stayed there, it'd be fine. But you also created a campaign to target these people. They had discovered through Facebook their photos, their habits, their earrings, their swimsuits on the beaches. You targeted them to create the impression that SYRIZA and his government had brought the army of cockroaches - so they wrote - to take over the state. Let's go down. You come today and you recommend seven hundred posters. Mr. Gerapetritis assured the committee responsible that this number has been locked and will not be increased. Within three days he submitted a legislative improvement and increased the number of retired and the total number of staff in the government's Presidency by an indeterminate number. He only spoke yesterday about an increase of twenty. I have no reason to question you, but I have the feeling that not even you at the end of the day will know how many people are. But that's not just the issue. Increase the pay of retired people and expose the financial costs. Based on current wage forecasts, only special scientific consultants and associates were classified in advanced wage scales. With the proposed provisions, all post-mortem ministers will now be given special wage benefits. That also means a burden on the public budget. And that's not all. You are also reducing the conditions laid down by the law to date in order to be a partner in a special minister's office. A diploma is no longer required, except for general or vocational schools. I don't know if you should keep this amendment, do you need it for the NSA? I'll ask you about that later. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, to close the issue of retired people, I will only say that. All posthumous scientific associates, special advisers in our governance were seven hundred seventy. The simple poster was about three hundred and not two thousand six hundred, as you describe. So this census, which refers to articles, and perhaps you too, includes all the colleagues of all their parties who charged them with the SYRIZA government, all the partners of the members of the local government you charged them with the SYRIZA government, and of course you realise that this number was far from being real, compared to the real workers in the government. Why am I saying all this? I am saying all this because there is no more step to restore the truth than it seems, except this step here in Parliament. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I heard Mrs Asmakopoulou yesterday about the same subject: 'We have never said that there should be no posters. The criticism we made on our opponent was selfish." There was one selfish criticism you made as a military opposition four years in SYRIZA! He had a self-interest for the posters. He had a self-interest in the economy that you've always said he's being destroyed, that we're falling off the rocks, that we won't get out of the memorials, that we won't get out of the market! There was one selfish criticism of the Ambassadors' agreement! You told us traitors, but now you're applying it! There was a selfish criticism of the destructive fires in Matti, but then you put a Secretary General of the Ministry of Civilian Protection the Chief of Police at those days. Your policy on the opposition had a self-interest! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] And I will be here from this step here every day - I may make your life difficult, but that is democracy - to defend the truth and to counter the ruthless populism you have used and to understand the authority, but now also in the first days of your administration, hypocrisy and populism. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I come to two more issues. You told us, Mr Mitsotakis, that you took the advice of technical assistance and of the OECD. Did the OECD advise you to abolish the institution of the Public Administration Inspectorate? Was that the technical advice you received? Did the OECD and technical assistance advise you to check with a photographic amendment - is it not in this bill, but in the next - and to change the administration of an independent Authority, the Competition Committee? If it's the OECD, then we'll go pause. But you yourself said, as far as the institution of the Public Administration Inspectorate is concerned. By letter dated 22-7-2014, as Minister of Administrative Reform to the Council of State, you were arguing in favour of the need of the then Inspector General Public Administration, Mr. Rakintzis, who had exceeded his term of office and remained five more years since his term of office - to remain in his place, despite the fact that he had fulfilled his term of office, because it was a great deal of importance for his responsibilities! I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] The importance of the responsibilities of the Public Administration Inspector General was at that time, because he was called Rakindzis. Now called Papaspyros and looking for NOVARTIS, ERIC, there is no importance and we are abolishing the institution! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are now going to the other incredible hypocrisy on the independent authority of the Competition Committee. You come here with the argument that we should get away from the partyisation of the state. I would like to remind you, Mr Mitsotakis, who was the head of the Competition Committee for ten years, with an extension of his term of office for five more and who were the advisors to him, who were those in his office, who were his legal advisers, who were the director of his office, who were the members of the committee who now remembered the partyisation of the state, and who caught your pain. I have found and read you, so that you do not say that I am constantly accusing the "PROTO THEMA", his post on August 31, 2009, when he mentioned the news of Mr. Dimitris Kyritsaki's choice of court until then. "They were confirmed," he wrote, "our information about Cretan's place in origin and known for relations with the Mitsotakis family, judiciary Dimitris Kyritsaki, in the chair of the Competition Committee". I'm filing it in the Minutes. But it was not only Mr Kyritsakis who had close relations with you, with your family, who were others who had close relations, because at the time of what I know Mr. Gerapetritis, who...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u137	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u138	Why, Mr. Gerapetite? Will you be in the unavoidable? Now you're not a professor, you're Minister. You are Minister of State and you will be judged! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Basic Legal Adviser of the Competition Committee for six years! You prepared the bill to replace Mrs Thanos, but from 2012 to 2018 under the leadership of Mr. Kyritsakis, of course, you provided legal services. You did receive the corresponding fees - they are, of course, fair and honest fees, but I am tabling them - over EUR 100,000, that is, you were the committee's main legal adviser. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Of course your office is well known. It's not a matter. We found these in "DENMARK" and it's nothing secret, you know them, but at the same time in 2017 and 2018 you were also advisor to Mr.Mitsotakis, a key legal adviser of the Competition Committee and advisor to Mr.Mitsotakis. Then there was no question of the party competition committee being involved. There's a matter today! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In addition to Mr Kyritsakis and the current Secretary-General of the Parliament, Mr Mylonakis, Director of the Office of the President of the Competition Committee, then, Director of the Office of the President, Mr Kyritsakis, was also a special advisor to Mr Mitsotakis, yours, when you were Minister for Administrative Reform. He held at the same time - as Mr Kyritsakis himself had told the Committee on Institutions and Transparency in the House on 10 February 2017 - both positions. Then there was no matter of partying. But I am very afraid that there is not just a matter of partying an independent authority here. There is a question of 'nosticisation' to this independent authority, which for ten years has been a principle that has been working with your own advisers and friends. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This has bothered you, but I will also reply to the questions put to the European Parliament, because you know one thing is the laws, one issue is the Constitution, one issue is Union law. I would also remind you - other measures and other weights! - when Mr Stathakis had come as a competent Minister in 2016 in the House of Parliament, with an amendment that wanted to pass incompatibility for members of the Competition Committee with relatives and ministers and concerned the current Minister of Education and the then Deputy of the New Democracy, Mr.Kerameos, whose husband, Mr. Luke, was a member of the Competition Committee of Mr. Kyritsakis. Then there was also no question of partyisation, but at the same time all of you Members had argued, among them Mr. Dendias, Mr. Varvitsiotis, Mrs. Kerameos herself, Mr. Vorides, but also Mr. Loverdes - he will remember that at least Mr. Loverdos does not change his mind, and now I imagine that he will say the same - that it is unconstitutional to have retroactive status and that the term of membership of the committee should be interrupted early. Today isn't it unconstitutional to interrupt as soon as he took over? He just took over three months ago! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am presenting to the Minutes and the Minutes of that sitting with the arguments of all of you on unconstitutionalism. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] And I'm closing up with the subject that has arisen in relation to the Commander of the NSA. Because, look, the country's national security, the country's secret services, national confidentiality is a very critical and sensitive issue. I have to admit that I don't know the man, I said it yesterday, and I may be wronging him. However, Mr Mitsotakis, I had instructed Mr Rubipai to inform you of everything. I hope you do the same. I do not know whether you will do so with Mr Concolones, because I have the feeling that on the basis of his CV and the law in force, in order to be able to take office as Commander of the EEA, he must have a diploma recognised either as a national degree or an equivalent foreign degree. That's the law. Laws are to be applied. Unless the laws don't go hand in hand with our pursuits. So much the worse for the laws. You'll have an amendment to change the law again. What we are seeing, however, through a little research that we have done since we posted the curriculum - almost a week late - is that man has studied at the Open University of London remotely. And the man took a degree at the Open University at his thirty-four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u139	Awesome!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u140	I don't know if they're perfect, but I'm sure he'll be excellent for Mr. Mitsotakis to choose him. However, this degree has probably not been recognized by the current IATAP, formerly jurisprudence. Because with a rough look and a rough research we have done, we have found that the only one identified by the IATAP website - because it is public - you can find it, too - the only academic title recognized by this university by the IATAP, is the one mentioned not in management, management studies, as your chosen student states in his curriculum but in the Department of Music. Is he a musician the new S.H.I.E.L.D. Commander? I don't know. If it is your decision will be lawful. But if it's not, you're gonna have to change the law here. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the President of the Radical Left coalition is being alarmed.]] And I close, saying this. Mr. Mitsotakis, matters relating to national security are crucial issues. With what guarantee you choose a man - and I repeat I can wrong him and be honest - who no one knows him, whose only parchment is that he was in some private securiti companies and you hand over a critical post, to a man who has as the only parchment of the private securiti, a company I read in articles - I do not know if it is true - has been sentenced to great fines - ironically of luck, by the Competition Committee again - for the creation of a cartel in the field of private storage, fines by the Labour Inspectorate for breaches of labour law in the work of the U.S.S.S.A. and other interventions. So I ask, with what guarantee and what insurance schematics you tell us that this man can respond to the national mission in terms of national planning, in terms of confidence and confidence, and most of all in terms of respect for the democratic nature of the National Intelligence Service. So I close by saying, Mr Mitsotakis, that: Do what you want in your government if you do not trust your ministers. But the state isn't a feud, it's not a chip. Here is democracy and you will account for your actions and we will control you every day. And if you do not observe the law and the Constitution, you will be accountable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u141	The Minister of State Mr.Gerapitris and the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr.Kerameos have requested the floor. Mr Gerapitris will speak first and then Mrs Kerameos will speak. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u142	The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and Chief of Civilian Responsibility, and today, too, on personal issues, has given me double honour. But as you did yesterday, Mr President, you did not refer to my bill. It is clear that it would perhaps be more useful, since you are here on the occasion of this bill, at least give me a reproach, for what I have the parliamentary responsibility. And I would remind you that I do not have the parliamentary responsibility for the provision concerning the Competition Committee and that if you want to give it to me or charge it to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u143	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u144	You said that I was the author, Mr President, and that is why I would ask that there be greater attention, as far as the parliamentary order is concerned. Beyond this, I would like to point out this: we are all aware of what an independent authority means, what an independent authority denoting by the law of the European Union, what a constitutional independent authority means, what a principle recognised by the Constitution means, such as the Competition Committee, as we all understand, Mr President, what it means to have impartiality in these independent principles. And absolute impartiality requires, Mr President, that there should not be a party position before, during and after the term of office of such a authority. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] If you identify the existence of a business relationship or if you identify a relationship of acquaintance, by being in office at the Prime Minister's Staff Office and by tomorrow moving to the Competition Committee, you will allow me to say that there is a question of the proportion of the measure. As far as my personal life is concerned, Mr President, I have never hidden my professional path and known to everyone. If you want, I can give you more information from which you can draw, because there will obviously be more bills coming. However, I would like you to bear in mind a basic contradiction, which I would like you to take little notice of. On the one hand, you blame those who have dealt with what you say private interests, and you are reluctant to come to the members of the Government who, in the context of their professional employment, had a relationship with any private person - today, Mr President, I think you have overtaken yourself - and you are blaspheming a professional for dealing with the public. But make up your mind. Somebody's working, Mr. President! [[Sustained applause from the New Democracy Wing]] If, Mr President, your intolerance to the previous employment of anyone who comes into the political sphere is about his employment in the private sector and in the public sector, then only those from the party can accept by constitutional review, Mr President, in this sanctuary. [[Sustained applause from the New Democracy Wing]] And to close, Mr President, on one point, because you were kind enough to table the document with my fees, which is obvious and very clear. As I had the opportunity to mention a precursor to your statement, I dealt with the Competition Committee as an external lawyer with cases before the Council of State, which require very specific know-how and require there to be very specific specialisation in matters of public law and the law of the European Union. Your enthusiast professor, Mr. Katrugalos, can confirm it to you. What is happening, Mr President, is that I took over these cases - and I would like you to record this - firstly because I wanted to serve the Committee on Competition. I would like you to mention, as you mentioned, the fees that I have received, to see exactly what this is all about. These are fees which are a performance in the Council of State of EUR 1,200 and EUR 1,500, of which we have taken care in recent years of 80% being taxation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I have the honour and pride to say today that I served with great faith in the Competition Committee and I do not regret it, because from my presence, 95% of the cases in favour of the Greek State were won, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u145	Mrs. Keramea has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am speaking on personal grounds, Mr President. I obviously have no competence to talk about matters from the Ministry of Development and the Competition Committee. The reason why I asked for the floor is that my name was obviously mentioned by the President of the Officerate on a matter of pure staff. Mrs Tsipras, in 2016 you brought a provision to the House, which introduced a new incompatibility between a member of the Competition Committee in particular and a Member of Parliament. What were you talking about? My husband, who was a European Commission official years ago, was invited by the Greek Government in 2009 to assist the Competition Committee. We weren't married. I had nothing to do with public life. And you came and said you were criminalizing a man's future husband's relationship. The Competition Committee was therefore appointed in 2009. We weren't married. I had nothing to do with public life. All this was six years later. And you compare this case with a purely photographic case, which had one objective, to punish two specific people - we were only two throughout the territory of my husband and I, who came under the scope of the provision, and you were therefore aiming to punish us in particular - in the case of Mrs Thanos, for example, who was your advisor and the same person was invited to operate as President of the Competition Committee. That's the parallel you're doing. In one case we have a coincidence in the same person of two qualities. She was your advisor and she was invited a few months later to chair an independent authority. And compare this with one case where a man had to know in 2009 that some years later he would marry me and that more years later I would become a MP. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In conclusion, Mr Tsipras, in one case we have had a purely punishing attitude against two people. Now, however, the government comes and tells you 'Come together and collect the Competition Committee'. That's what he tells you. If, in fact, you really want the demilitarisation, the demilitarisation of the Competition Committee, you have nothing but to vote on this provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Voridis, are you asking for the floor for an answer to what the Chief of Staff has said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u149	Why is Mr Voridis asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u150	Mr Mavroudis Voridis has the floor for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u151	Has Mr Vorides asked for the floor on staff? Did he ask for the personal floor in what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u152	No, Mr President, on personal grounds, but on what you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u153	I would like to reply later, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the noisy colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u155	Wait a minute, Mr. Voridis. Mr Tsipras, they will answer what you have said and then you will be given the floor for what the three of them will say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u156	I would like you to give me the floor later, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u157	Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u158	I would like to inform my concerned colleagues on the SYRIZA side that the ministers have the right to take the floor under the Rules of Procedure of the House. So if you'll excuse us now, will you? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the amazing thing. Mr. Tsipras must abdicate the Prime Minister for populism! And also to call on the New Democracy to be partisan! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Who? The one who appointed Mrs Thanou to the Competition Committee, his legal counsellor, has been unpaid because he was fascinated by the gifts of Mr Tsipras and had to offer him unpaidly. Yes, sir! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And we also heard as examples of supposedly partyism the following amazing. People who had anything to do with the Competition Committee at any time with any policy at any time in the Competition Committee, Mrs. Kerameos' husband at an unrelated time, Mr. Gerapetritis at an unrelated time, Mr. Mylonakis at an unrelated time, those who then... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Here's what you're comparing! Listen to the distortion! So, those who had a career there and then, without one having been appointed politically there - look out! - compare with Mr Tsipras' party seat, Mrs Thanos. What does one have to do with the other? What are you talking about? What are you talking about? [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] So listen: you are not entitled to speak, to remember a fine phrase. You are not entitled to speak on this matter. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] And I'll be done. We hadn't told you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, when has this happened before?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u160	What?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u161	Carry on, Mr. Voridis, and finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u162	If I did it, it would have been a headline!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u163	All right, Mr. Polakis, we get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Polakis, Mr. Voridis is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u165	Answers instead!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u166	I repeat, why didn't you realize that the ministers...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u167	What do you say, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u168	You're annoyed by the answers!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u169	Mr. Voridis, are you making your speech or are you answering instead?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Polakis, sit down and let's get this over with. Sit down! Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u171	What's he talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u172	Don't interrupt. He speaks as the Minister of Agriculture. You said that. Sit down. Now it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u173	Is he making his speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u174	We are stalling Mr. Tsipras this way. Go on, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u175	Is that his speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Polakis, we are stalling the Chief of Staff Response, who has asked for the floor after Mr. Vorides! Go on, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u177	I understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u178	You don't understand anything! You don't understand anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u179	Mr Polakis, the truth is that you are usually saying high-level things, and we cannot monitor them. The truth is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u180	Ask what I said today!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u181	All right, sit down now. You said it, we got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u182	Okay. I would also like to finish by saying that Mr Tsipras must remember that. Do you remember the position of the New Democracy when you were appointing Mrs Thanos? Was it clear? Was she clear? Did we tell you then that this is a party position which affects the integrity, autonomy and independence of the committee? Have we said this clearly and clearly? We have been committed since that is something that we will deal with and resolve? We are entirely consistent with what we have already said and which have been approved by the Greek people. Get used to that! We are implementing one - one of the commitments we have made to the Greek people!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u183	The Chief of Staff Response, Mr. Tsipras, has requested the floor. Here, Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u184	What's going on here now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u185	Mr Vorides, I asked you if you would like to take the floor on staff, but you told me that you would not want to take the floor on the political point. I know you're an excellent lawyer. I did not know, however, that Parliament today has a Prime Minister who needs an excellent lawyer to answer the Chief of Staff. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The President, of course, gave the floor to staff, because there was not even a staff. In both cases there was no personal reproach either to you, Mr. Gerapetritis, nor to you, Mrs. Keramea. There was political criticism. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] I would also like to thank you for taking the floor, in order to highlight the great hypocrisy of the New Democracy's policy on the issue of its allegedly concern for the partyisation of the Competition Committee. As far as the staff responses are concerned, I will only say two things. Firstly, Mr Gerapetiti, I did not know that you have not drafted the contested photographic amendment tabled in the draft law that we shall be voting on tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u186	I don't make it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u187	Yeah, I don't know. First of all, it honours you because, in fact, it is a shameful and photographic amendment and it honors you that you have tried to renounce this responsibility. But someone made this amendment. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And because there's collective responsibility for the government, you get the ball. In addition, I would like to assure you that no reliance has been placed on your professional career, on the fact that you were the main legal adviser of the Competition Committee during the period when Mr Kyritsakis was in charge...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u188	I wasn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u189	And no reproach I gave you to the fact that you had a reward or to what kind of reward you had for it. The reproach I have given is reproach which concerns - I repeat - your government's political crisis, which has two standards. And I answer Mrs Kerameau in the same way. Minister, I did not give any reproach to you, because in 2009 - you told me - you had not met your husband, but in 2016 when this amendment was tabled it was your husband and you were a Member of the Competition Committee. So this amendment, which was tabled in 2016, was an amendment that puts incompatibility. What is the essence of the criticism I made from the Step - I repeat - not in your professional career or in your family relationship? The point of criticism was that, at the time, all the opposition members, all those who spoke in favour of unconstitutionalism, not of the same amendment as yourself, which you blamed as photographic, but have argued in favour of the unconstitutionality of retrospective power, saying, in fact, that it is unconstitutional and unacceptable that the term should be interrupted in the middle of the committee members and the chairman at the same time, because there was at the same time - that amendment - and an age limit if I remember well. So, then, it was unconstitutional to interrupt the term in half, despite what Mr Mitsotakis has already done for nine years, who is finally sitting in ten years. Now it is not unconstitutional to interrupt a term with an amendment that has retroactive effect, when it has actually taken office a few months ago. This hypocrisy, I denounce and continue to denounce, Ms. Keramea and Mr. Gerapitris! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And don't do what you don't understand. I hope that the Buddhist Prime Minister who sits and listens to his defence ministers - who rush as lawyers to defend him - has the opportunity to answer him himself. I wonder if he doesn't have that possibility? They may rush because the bill itself leaves suspicions of the Prime Minister's trust to the ministers. And you're willing to declare trustworthy! You're doing good! But I hope, Mr Mitsotakis, that you reply to me and not Mr Vorides - he is not Prime Minister, Mr Vorides, a good lawyer is - and answer the substance of politics for the essence of hypocrisy, but answer for your chosen person at the National Intelligence Service, whether you are going to dismiss him today or if you intend to change the law, because it seems that if the Constitution and the laws are inconsistent with your purposes, the worst of their Constitution. I repeat. You will be judged and you will be called to respond to the opposition and not to lawyers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u190	The Prime Minister has the floor, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u191	I see, Mr Tsipras, in your latest appearances, as the Chief of Anti-Population, a tension, an irritation, as if you still have not found your right role, and I dare say that there is also an inconvenience with the climate that I have diagnosed by the other colleagues in the parliamentary group whose honour you have to lead. Look at you, blaming the New Democracy for populism and selfishness offends the verdict of the Greek people, who with 40% gave this party the opportunity to govern the place. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And in any case, you are finally getting away from this psychological perception of the allegedly unjust, that you did everything so well, that the economy was going brightly, that the middle class was prospering, that the state was working well and for some unexplainable reason the Greek people blacked you. Things were not going well in the country, Mr. Tsipras, and that's why they trusted the New Democracy and gave us this mandate. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As far as the procedure is concerned, I should first of all say - you must be well acquainted, you are now experienced in Parliament - that, firstly, the ministers have the opportunity to answer at all times, on staff and on matters relating to their competence. And don't worry, I'll be here to answer you whenever and when necessary. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In addition, a number of parliamentary debates have taken place and I do not think you have ever accused me of being a Buddhist Chief of Antipopulation. I do not intend to be a buffalo Prime Minister at all. So I come to everything you said about the final state. In fact, no criticism has been made of the main articles of the bill. You mentioned the number of posters and how bad we are for showing how many posters you have appointed over the years. And I wonder, Mr. Tsipras. Dozens of questions from the New Democracy MPs became about the issue of posters when we were in the opposition. Why are you never here to say what you are saying today when you were Prime Minister? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In any case, if you were criticised, it was not just a question of the number of posters. It was about the general impression, Mr. Tsipras, that you were appointing your company and your friends and friends at the Maximos Concert Hall. That is why you have been criticised and not just for the number. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In any case, I am the first to recognise and speak for decades of pathogens. And that is why I imagine you will welcome our initiative and I would expect you to vote in favour of it by your rapporteur, the number of posters is now strictly predetermined, so that every minister can no longer change the relevant decrees and add poster to them, because this has been the case in the past. It also happened on our own days, it also happened on your own days. So that is the reality we face. How do we treat her? Explain it to the Greek citizens, who are watching us, who may not know the bill in its detail. We are setting a minimum number of posters, eight in particular, and we are adding, depending on the number of general secretaries of each Ministry, to a poster, so that we can actually give the larger ministries the opportunity to hire more poster, because they simply have a bigger object. Do you agree, Mr. Tsipras, with this provision?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u193	All right, so vote in favour of this provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u194	You changed it after our intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u195	I'm glad to take the vote out of you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do you agree with the need for institutionalisation, to meet the Ministerial Council every month with a fixed agenda and with the possibility of making binding votes on the Ministerial Council so that the College can function as all the collective bodies in all the serious countries of the world? If you agree, I would ask you to vote in favour of this provision. Do you agree, Mr Tsipras, with the major innovation of the bill, that individual administrative acts should now be signed by the directors-general and not by the political leaders? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] If you do not agree, you show the great confidence you have in public administration and at last explain how you mean the colonization of public administration! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let me give you an example from my term of office at the Department of Administrative Reform. Why does the Minister himself have to sign any transfer and transfer made to the Greek State? What added value does this signature of the Minister have? I will tell you what the added value is. The only added value of the signature of the Minister is the political filter for who will get the signature faster and whose transfer or secondment will not be signed! Because, obviously, the administrative control of legality has been carried out by the agencies. When it reaches the Minister for signature an act signed by the Director-General, the Minister does not examine the legal details of the act. By transferring responsibility to the Director-General, we support public administration and allow ministers to carry out their real work, which is not political intervention, but policy making, which is now being implemented by the civil servants themselves. If you disagree, we just have a different perception of how public administration should work. I now come to anti-corruption issues. Mr. Tsipras, did you or did you not have a Deputy Minister responsible for anti-corruption matters? As far as I know, there was some nickname that particular guy. He was himself, who I remember coming out of the Maximos Mansion and made statements about the greatest scandals, which he knew from the Revolution and then I think you know very well who I am talking about. So I ask our every good fellow citizen, who listens to us this. Is it reasonable for the fight against corruption to be the responsibility of a minister, who should control the executive itself, namely himself and his colleagues, or are we much more reliable if we establish an independent anti-corruption authority, just as the OECD recommends us to do? We are doing nothing other than following recommendations from the OECD, which had been very concerned with the issues of corruption and transparency, by setting up such a strong and independent authority. I now come to the question of the Competition Committee. I did not intend to refer to this matter today, because it is a provision which will be introduced into plenary in the next two days, but because I do not know whether we will have the opportunity again to meet Parliament on Wednesday and Thursday, I think it is an opportunity to give some answers. First of all, with regard to the personal criticism, which you have made to Mr Gerapetti, and by a reflection on Mrs Keramea, I would like to say something to you, Mr Tsipras. Mr. Gerapetritis is a worthy self-creational man who abandoned a successful career to get into politics. He's not unpaid, and he's not a product of the party tube! And we should be very pleased if people with careers, prestige and resentment, abandon good careers to come to the public! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, once they've been on the political track, they're open to political criticism. But you won't blame successful professionals for what they did before entering politics. So the question is not what they did before, but the question is what they do next.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u196	Please, be quiet in the deep. You have a choir where it's often insane. Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u197	It is not in line with the general climate of the House. The major question, therefore, is what should be done after the judiciary, when they have taken up important positions, if they are to be understood after the service, which they have given the judiciary in important positions, on the next day, to advise the Prime Minister and then, obviously, to be rewarded for this service, to be appointed to chair an independent authority. I will not refer here to the model of impartiality and objectivity, which is the Vice-President of the Authority, which, as far as I know, was the Director at the Office of Mr Papapa. So objective is the Independent Authority of the Competition Committee! However, I come to the essence of the matter. I think the answer has been given. The answer has been given. There's an answer. I read: 'And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to making a point which, in my own personal opinion, is expressing on an issue which a large number of colleagues have asked me to raise. The Bureau chairs are honourable and are not offered as a head office for other personal purposes. Members of the Bureau of the Union shall not be allowed after their retirement to seek, visit party and other offices and accept other positions, well paid, - Mr. Tsipras has not heard them - 'as, for example, the President of an independent authority, with a monthly salary of EUR 11 000, because this is the case' - hear, Mr. Tsipras - 'they are created and reasonably, the belief that there was 'the existing transaction'. The judiciary is also required after his retirement to safeguard both his personal dignity and, above all, the prestige and credibility of justice so that the citizens can trust us." I would like to tell you that I fully agree with the position of Mrs Vassiliou. You're so hypocrites! So hypocrites are you and Mrs Thanos, who, for thirty-three silvers, takes a party appointment from you personally to a critical independent authority. [[Applause extended by the New Democracy Ward]] I put the letter in the Minutes, because you see that sometimes what we say goes along with us. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to remind you, Mr Tsipras, that since Mrs Thanos' position, we have expressed our strong opposition and, in fact, I have also sent a letter to the Commissioner responsible, Mrs Westager, expressing emphatically and clearly the fact that Mrs Thanos' position clearly violated the independence of the Committee on Competition. You will have to know, Mr Tsipras and ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Representation, that this government is doing what it has said in the election. So you can blame us, not for inconsistency. Get used to it and learn it well at last! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I don't have much to say about this. No law is going to change, Mr. Tsipras, but since you mentioned this issue, it may have an interest to comment on the position of your old colleague in the ministerial seats, Mr. Varoufakis, who, speaking of the issue of the EPP, left very clear suspicions of Mr. Rubipai, otherwise respected - I want to be clear - and he is a man who I believe served the public interest. She was a reporter, of course. It had nothing to do with the subject of collecting information, but Mr Varoufakis' suggestion that the National Intelligence Service was about to monitor your ministers, I think, Mr Tsipras, that you and Mr Varoufakis should answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, I would just like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Tsipras has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President, only two minutes. The first thing I want to say, Mr Mitsotakis, is that the popular verdict is not a white cheque. The fact that you won the election doesn't mean you're always right and you won't be controlled. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The second thing I want to say to you is that, in your quite long position, you have avoided answering the substance. Other words to be loved. You told me whether we would also agree to vote on provisions which we asked to change. I would remind you - because yesterday I was placed on the bill in detail - that we asked for a provision to be withdrawn, which originally provided for the opportunity for the Prime Minister to appoint or increase the retired and withdrawn. It is not my issue or the issue of opposition or the House at any time when your Ministerial Council will meet. It's your thing. I wish you a meeting often. We are not saying that there are no positive provisions in the bill. What we are saying, however, is that you must agree that the criticism we are making is very substantial. And with regard to the remuneration of posted officials, who are burdening the state budget, we have made a very difficult effort to limit pay and to limit the number, you come, you increase the number, but it is not just there. Increase the pay and limit the pay, shrink the prerequisites, just hold a high school graduation certificate for those of Ministers. And that's a downgrade of the administration. I do not know if, at the end of the day, you did not answer me on the substance - your life expectancy is Mr Varoufakis. Mr. Varoufakis is your lifesaving? Every time you're in a difficult position, you'll tell me what his books said, what Mr. Varoufakis said from the Step of the House, which for four years you had brought him back to the most unreliable Greek? Today you come to tell me what he said about Mr. Rubipai? Mr Rubatis was, not just a journalist, studying the subject, he was a minister for years, a Member of Parliament, a MEP and, as far as you know, he left no shadow during his term of office. You recognized that, too. And now you're coming to invoke what, what reputation, what rumor? I conclude by saying this: as far as the Committee on Competition is concerned, there is a debate and tomorrow we will respond and be placed. But there is Union law. Hypocrisy is obvious. The world has understood and you understand, because you cannot defend this different attitude, the different measures and weights. Because if you were really concerned about partyisation, why don't you move on to other independent committees? Why? Because the Consumers' Counsel - I appreciate the man, I do not have a problem with his presence there - is Mr Zagori, former Secretary of the Central Committee of New Democracy. Why do you not bring an amendment at the same time to ban Mr Zagori? And anyway, hypocrisy is deep. For five years he has been the Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournaras, the Minister of Mr Samaras, to this great independent authority, the largest of all. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I obviously know, Mr Gerapetti, that it is not about, that the House is not able to intervene in this. Because hypocrisy I'm talking about other measures and other weights. So that is what bothers you - you admit - it is not whether Mrs Thanos was - because she was President of the Ice Bay, she was a Prime Minister - at the Prime Minister's Legal Office, in which, if I am not mistaken, other excellent lawyers have been. If I'm not mistaken, and you, Mr. Vice-President, were at the Legal Office of Mr. Konstantinos Mitsotakis. I may be wrong, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u201	I'm seconded from the Service Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u202	Let's not always implied in this Chamber!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u203	Okay. That is why I am saying this because it is an institutional position which seeks honor to each Prime Minister to have a well-established legal and higher price, even if he has also been in the lead of justice. But I'm closing this, Mr. Mitsotakis, in relation to the commander of the NSA. I may be wronging the man, but I repeat he cannot remain in his place. This man does not have a degree recognised under the law by the Greek State. As far as I know, he's not a musician. He's been mailing management at the Open University of London. You must respect the law, and you must replace it, unless you come with an amendment on this matter, to change the law, to do it as it suits you. You have an answer directly to this crucial issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u204	We're continuing the debate. The floor is given by MP Kastoria of the New Democracy Mr. Zeis Tzikalaya. Finally, Mr. Jekalaya! I would remind my fellow Members that in about three quarters we will start the roll-call vote requested by the Qualified Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u205	Mr President, you expect the Chamber to be empty and noise to be cut so that the Member can be heard. It is such contempt for the Members, who cannot be heard by their colleagues either.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u206	Please, the departure will take place at a faster rate. Mr. Jekalaya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, with my first speech, seven years after my previous presence in this Chamber, in the temple of democracy, in the Greek Parliament, I would first like to thank the President of the New Democracy, who gave me the opportunity to participate in these elections, and of course above all my fellow citizens who trusted me and elected me to represent them. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In today's bill, which we are discussing on the final state, I will, of course, give a positive vote and I shall do so for two main reasons. First of all, because it is a consequence of what we were saying in the election, not only in the twenty days of the election period, but all the previous years and the previous months. We said it would be our first concern, as we do, since it is the second bill, which we bring, in order to build a state, to hit red tape. It is what our President has said many times, that we will come as a roller to crush the maliciousness, which exists in the bad relationship between the citizen and the state, which the Greek citizen often fails, resents the way in which the state treats him when he comes into contact with her. The second reason I vote for this is because I have studied it, I have heard dozens of colleagues analyse it and, indeed, the presence of the relevant Minister of State, Mr Gerapitritos, was a positive contribution, as was said by the mouths of counter-population. He added a new political culture, which we so much missed in the past few years. So as far as the bill itself is concerned, I will be concise. I'm going to mention some positive, 'cause I want to say a few things later. It is indeed a huge reform section, because it is a "mixture", a "chemistry" on the one hand of the constitutionally required allocation of responsibilities of the Ministerial Council and, on the other hand, of what the Prime Minister must do, according to the Constitution, should be the coordinator and the monitor of the timetables, which should have the government programme. We, as a government, as a New Democracy, have the principle that you plan in advance and then you monitor implementation. From what I have heard, I have come to the conclusion that with this bill the number of posted officials in the government's presidency is actually falling by at least 25%. The greatest revolution, which brings about the separation of political and service commands. The Secretary-General comes from the administration hierarchy, and this is the greatest contribution to the state's colonisation. We are the ones blamed by the Opposition. You put a number of dilemmas in it. You wanted to divide the Greek people into our relationship with the civil servants. We are actively showing our confidence in the officials, as we ensure the duplicity of legality and the integrated institutional counterweight framework. We have the phenomenon of control being controlled, of inspection being carried out by the auditor. In fact, it is important that the new National Transparency Authority, which we establish, unites the malfunctions of the six independent authorities, which were in place, which worked as well as they could, but we now want to take a lot of steps forward. This is the first time that political leadership will not be involved in planning controls. Finally, because we are the party we believe in excellence at all levels, with this bill, trying to contribute to the education of society, we add and create a culture of counter-corruption. Now, Minister, I would like you to allow me, although we are talking about the state at last, continuing or wishing to beam the state to the periphery. There's the state. The Prime Minister said a moment ago about Sucho, about the monster head and the stubborn body, that if there is no district, there can be no center. That is why the region I come from, western Macedonia, is the worst in the indicators of Greece's growth and the worst in Europe. If you look at a map from East to North, from Evros to Igoumenitsa, airports that have at least twice a day, Mr President, communication with the capital is in Alexandroupolis, Kavala, Thessaloniki and Yannina. There is an empty space between Thessaloniki and Yannina, where there is no daily service, morning and evening, with the capital. This region is the region of western Macedonia, which is the only region, not bordering the sea, which is very close to Albania and Skopje. The airport of Kastoria, which now only has four flights a week, while a few years ago had six, will have to operate as an airport in western Macedonia, with two flights a day for the capital. In order to do this, the Kleissoura tunnel, which will connect Jordan to the Prefecture of Kastoria, and on the other hand, what I have seen today in discussing with colleagues from the region, must function what you, the previous rulers, started there in the Lamassou area. Create the prisonhouse in Laimos so there can be contact with Skopje. I, what to do, cannot call Skopje and FYROM, as you in the previous parliament, 'North Macedonia'. In these two ways, we will have a great influx of people into the capital and from southern Albania and from Skopje. I would like to say to you, Minister, that the airport of Kastoria, first of all, is the second in length - with three thousand two hundred kilometres - after Venizelos and a better track than all the airports in Greece. You can see that. At the same time, if we do the Kleisoura tunnel, which is a tunnel along with the opening of the passage from Laimo to Skopje, it will be very important. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If we do not - and with this in mind I will close, Mr President - perhaps within four years, I, the Member of Parliament, will come to Athens via Cortsas. Kortsa is forty-five minutes from Kastoria. Preventing our friends neighbours of Albanians, why if they build an international airport and have daily flights with Athens, why should I go to Thessaloniki? We are voting for the very important state of affairs. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u208	I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and the Standing Committee on Formatic Affairs shall submit their report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: ‘Confidentiality of the Ministry of Interior, provisions on digital governance and other urgent issues’. The President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u209	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u210	Immediately after the president, Mr. Loverdos. Mr President, have you asked for the floor on staff or to make a small speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, thank you for that. It is not a personal matter, it is a matter of mention, for example, in response to the things that have been mentioned between Mr Tsipras and the Prime Minister, as far as Mr Rubipai and the SPS are concerned. I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u212	Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, I won't need any more. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not deprive other colleagues of time if the current intervention with the bill was not directly relevant, because we talked too much about democracy in the way that important officials of the Greek State are selected, we talked about transparency. They're central to the bill. In the debate which has taken precedence and many have contributed to it, there have been crises for Mr Condoleon, for Mr Rumbling as emblematic figures of people who occupy a position as Heads of the EEA, who are of enormous importance, because the greater the opacity and power and the strength, the strength of a position, the greater the threat to both human rights, social freedoms and democracy in general, which is why we must be very careful. There was a stewardship between the Chief of Officer Response and the Minister and the Prime Minister for Diplomas, for Mr. Condoleon's CV. What I am about to tell you now is that Mr. Tsipras is right about Mr. Rubbai, that his curriculum was indeed excellent. In one of the two chapters of my book, which was mentioned - because I mentioned it first in my position yesterday - I am clear that I consider his curriculum to be extremely positive, and it was why, with great pleasure, I worked as Minister of Finance with him, despite the fact that he had a postgraduate qualification, a doctorate from the 'Johns Hopkins University' on matters relating to the entry, invasion of foreign secret services into the CFP, and given Mr Rumbia's term of office - an important service - in the first government of PASOK, to the Government of Andreas Papandreou, I had a very mood towards him. In chapter 15, however, I am referring - and here is the apple of Eris - to something very specific. Mr Rubatis - I make a clear complaint - at a specific meeting of the negotiating group in May 2015 said things to ministers and government officials, knowing that it was untrue, which created an atmosphere that did very badly in our national affairs of negotiating that time. I've made a very specific complaint, anyone who wants to get in and read exactly what I'm saying. I do not want to abuse the time, Mr President, but there is a big question here, the question of how this government uses the term of sovereignty and a mood that is sincere on the part of the Members of the New Democracy, in order to proceed with a new chapter, in the way in which people are appointed, such as the Chief of the National Information Service, based on the bad practices of the past, which include Mr Rubipai, despite the fact that he had very good CVs. I'm afraid, seeing the G4S director's appointment as Head of the NSA, that not only does this opacity process continue to be reproduced, but let's go to a stage further. This is where I close, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, do you agree to extend the sitting by one hour? It's happened in the past. Mr. Voutsis, the former President of the House, knows that. A lot of my fellow Members have been insisting that they speak. The Bureau, of course, has no objection to going back an hour. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u215	The House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u217	The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement has the floor. You're welcome, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, I did not want, because it is the first weeks of this Parliament's term to intervene in the debate of the two leaders, the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff, to raise a point of order. But now that this debate is over, I want to tell you the following. You have a responsibility as Bureau, the President and the Vice-Presidents, to observe the Rules of Procedure of the House and the decisions of the Conference of Presidents. First of all, as far as time is concerned. Give you 20 minutes and speak an hour. Secondly, as far as the agenda is concerned, Mr President, if I am not too much. In so far as we had a draft law here today, we talked about issues of tomorrow's draft law and we also had back-ups, I don't know how many years ago about each other. Please, I do not want to be forced to act as we did last year. Because we will, Mr President. The House has a agenda. He's got issues. The Conference of Presidents shall act unanimously or unanimously. These cannot be the ones for the theater of a two-partyism going aside and we can be viewers in a project in which we cannot participate. The House must respect its procedures. And now we have the margin for an hour to extend. Okay. But the essence of the debate on specific issues has been lost, with the responsibility of the Chief of Officership and the Prime Minister. You must, Mr President, put things in order. Because this class has been lost over the past few years and has to be found again. If you do not - without this being a threat, the institutional party is exemplary in its behaviour - the next time that this happens again, our interventions will also be of an activist nature.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u219	Mr Loverdo, the Rules of Procedure do provide for what you have said. We must not let speakers get away from the subject of the agenda. Unfortunately, this has been happening for too long in practice. The new Bureau is trying to curtail this arrhythmia, I would say, the abuse that is taking place, but we will sooner or later succeed. But more is done, not only by the Prime Minister or the parties' leaders, but by the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, that was an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u221	That was a general placement of yours. We will try to limit ourselves to issues. The next speaker is please come to Stepma. It's Mr. Vlachos George from New Democracy. Do you want us to limit the minutes from seven to six? Say six with a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been many years since we admired the public administration of our neighbour Italy, where, despite the continuous elections, due to the electoral law, and the prolonged periods of government, it has managed to keep the state machine running. No one dared to think of such a situation in our country, given that it considered the absolute dissolution of public administration to be a matter not because Greek civil servants were of reduced qualifications, but because they were serving a system that does not allow for initiatives and only operates on mandates. Thus, without initiatives, without instructions, the system is reassuring, that is, it remains unavoidable. It's still infallible, because it's just, it doesn't do anything. This situation came to worsen the rule of the 1980s, after depriving many valuable and experienced executives, who were removed prematurely and established absolute partyism throughout the public administration. Continuous mergers of ministries, agencies with only the aim of satisfying personal ambitions, followed. Organisations that are outdated, confused, weakened, retired services and even party-based transfers have gradually made the public machine unscrupulous and unable to respond, not only to the needs of a modern era, but not even to the elementary function to meet the needs of society. No one is rated, no one is responsible and everyone expects to change things without changing the data. Proof of what I am saying, is that even the ministerial offices with the culmination of the SYRIZA administration - which I think there is no comparison - have tried to meet their needs with poster staff. Unless you want us to believe, colleagues of SYRIZA, that you have not taken them out of need, but as a normalization of your party friends. Today, there is an effort that I believe the Minister will not claim to be perfect. But something had to be done to change the data that I reported earlier on. An effort is being made, in the hope that these initiatives will change the functioning of the public sector, improve the effectiveness and ultimately the lives of the citizens, who are at the end - and what is to be done. In the face of this plan and the initiative of the government, we have heard the opposition from all these days and especially the Civic Opposition to react, devising various risks. But, by rejecting any change, you are charging for the present ineffective situation, which we believe society has already overcome. And while the government accepted the remarks of the Opposition, giving a sign of good intentions, the opposition insists - let me say - on foolish interpretations of prime centralism, as if it were not in the past, and it was the first of its ranks, as if there were something to change if there were a Presidency ministry, which the Prime Minister would own. So all this is to make sure nothing changes, why is everything okay? Are you telling us that it is better for the many audit authorities to stay, for example? Six audit authorities shall be consolidated. I'd like a few more. Is each professional to accept this control ring, one after another, and each individual control, or is there just one serious control mechanism, which has the overall picture of controls at the beginning, middle and last and finally someone should have the responsibility? We have also heard disagreements about the placement of a permanent secretary and the possibility of signing the directors-general. Why, indeed, cannot we trust these people? Is it because of reduced capacity? Is it because they cannot be easily controlled by anyone? Or why is it difficult to find such worthy people in public administration? We believe that there are remarkable people who can bear this burden and can all function with those insurance margins of effectiveness, Minister. It is not enough to give responsibilities to a number of executives, who will be on duty, so that this does not mean that they are not judged. They must understand that these people will be accountable to the citizen and the interests of the citizen must be guaranteed here in some way. For example, if one fails to respond in a week, in one month, there is some reason for a positive response to the service, otherwise one will not feel the need to give a concrete answer. So we, ladies and gentlemen, support this government initiative, this government effort, because we agree on the need to improve the functioning of the state with hope and hope, if you like, that this plan will succeed. But we're here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u224	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, we are here to do every goodwill and documented observation, whether it comes from Opposition or from the actors in society. We are here to serve the citizens effectively, namely those who gave us the mandate to be here. We simply have to stop saying that in words and we have to prove this every moment by doing things. That is our responsibility, and that is why we are voting in favour of the bill today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. Mr. Savvas Anastasiades is called to Stepma by New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about the bill on how to organise and operate the state, public administration and the government with the emphasis on the introduction of new rules of operation with a view to simplifying procedures, better service of citizens and transparency. All the historical records, which have been made, all the investigations that have been carried out so far and over time, result in a common assumption that the citizen was standing and standing against the state, with distrust and reassurance. He doesn't trust it. There is no - I think - any citizen in this Chamber, no fellow Members, who in this matter will answer that he is not satisfied, that he is not happy with the way the state, the public administration and the governance of the country operates today. This is a time-consuming finding and, of course, I do not think anyone is questioning it. It is not, of course, about human personnel or human resources alone, but it is mainly about the structures, procedures and policies that exist in that country. Although, Minister, it is customary to call this whole malfunctioning of the state as bureaucracy, I believe that we have a much more complex issue and a much more complex problem. First of all, there is a problem with pluralism, with the successive amendments, with the many ministerial decisions, with the many presidencies which are confusing and unclear in their implementation. There are legislative arrangements that have been passed, but have never been implemented, because the relevant presidential decrees and ministerial decisions for their implementation have not been adopted. The transfer of essential responsibilities from public administration to civil servants, posters, political leaders or advisors has created a gap between political and administrative staff. The victim of all the things I mentioned above was the citizen and above all the populace. In this context, therefore, the need for reform of the public administration has emerged over the past few years, and this has, if you like, been a programme for all parties during the election period. Any attempts made did not have the same effect, because either the governments dared or could not overcome their narrow party and ideological limits. So what is the matter today? The self-evident thing. Because today, it's self-evident we're talking about. What are we talking about? Citizens should have better service, faster service, more fairer service. That's the point. The state meets modern requirements and needs. That is what we are asking today. How can this be done? System the functions of the state. So that's the one thing. Secondly, to create procedures for targeting, controlling, efficiency of the government with measurable results. To enable civil servants to carry out their duties as derived from the Constitution. To trust the civil servants and I believe that no one disagrees with that. The establishment of the Special Secretary-General and the transfer of responsibilities and the Director-General of a service, I appreciate, Minister, that it is a large section, a very important initiative and that it will enable the public to be mobilised even more. But no one, no matter how much knowledge they have, can know better the problem, the process and the solutions, by the employee, who starts his career in a service and lives in that service, lives the service. These are issues which are trying to regulate today's bill. He creates appropriate structures because he trusts the civil servant. But here, Minister, something else needs to be done about the public. The public needs to have internal rules of operation in all the ministries and in all the departments, and also, a record, that is to say, to know what we are sitting on, something that does not exist today, so that there is also a responsibility if something goes wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, today there is a great deal of effort to deal with long-term pathogens of public administration. The Prime Minister and the government dare. You do it successfully and you deserve congratulations. The main issue is efficiency in the public and government. I can't believe we disagree on that. The bill we are debating today is not a draft of party totalitarianism, as you are accusing us of, ladies and gentlemen. It's a great effort to change the philosophy of administration. It clearly shows the intentions of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the government we want to take Greece forward, to make Greece a modern European country, a country that is developed to serve and serve its citizens better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u227	Mrs Liana Kanelle is called to Step by the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President, I will try to be extremely brief. There's a bill here, which has a multi-purpose form. The conversation got out of hand. He has escaped for many on-the-jobs, has escaped for many of the handkerchiefs whose experiences of one and the other have been hanged, the party is now ruling and the political opposition party, and it seems that this is how the process will go from now on in this parliamentary term. Everything has been embodied and, above all, things have been exaggerated, which have nothing to do with politics and are within the philosophy of this bill. And it is wrongly terrifying, because it lubricates and literally submits to the Greek people to think abstractly, neutrally, detoxified, to believe that anyone who does these is pure in the state is enough to do so unpaid. You therefore want a voluntary, de-examination or with a special waged central state to implement a policy on myths. In myths, though. In myths very dangerous, myths such as the way in which we decide in such a bill for the administration to put the two hundred years to celebrate 1821. Open the schoolbooks, gentlemen, where the verb, subject and object has been abolished. And you're talking about sets of words, where a word is a set of phrases. And open a book and see if they will ever tell you how he died, except during the Revolution of 1821, the firstborn son of Colokotronis, the hero of 1821. He won't tell you he became civil in 1824. Is that how we're going to go to 1821? We're going to celebrate how? Without talking about it? Without opening an academic, substantial conversation with the children? With what needs? No, we'll merchandise it to build a national narrative. So here you have brought an administrative record, which is mainly based on transparency. Let's see transparency. Transparency, my Minister, began to apply and be forbidden as an idea to reach the OECD toolbox in 1993. And he started with Maastricht. And it is no coincidence that it began with Maastricht. Because transparency was a way of controlling imperialists against the poorest countries. So he started by Peter Agen, a German from the World Bank, who had fifteen years of weakening, as a donor to aid, the underdeveloped countries in which Germany, with all the other Europeans and Americans, had colonial views. So they built transparency to lower the price of bribery in the countries of the third world that they took advantage of. This is the International Transparency Organization, a non-profit organisation, namely a NGOs of interests, the IMF, one, the other, all the imperialist forces. This is the great idea of helping, without bribing, the local dictators and others, and at first only the bribes. And they wanted to make the bribes uncorrupted, the ones who bribed them. And you come here today and forge the OECD toolbox as a panacea of consecrated capitalist management. Woe to you, hypocrites, and Pharisees. Oh, that's merciful. Mercy! If you are looking to see in the International Transparency, which made these ideas which multinationals were, with how many victims, including UNION CARBIDE, who blinded fifty thousand people in India from an explosion and ate twenty-five years to give them compensation of half a million. And we come to pass this in the bill, based on "What did you do, what your husband did, what your wife did, what your child did." Inside a complication. And you're so exaggerated about the curriculum vitae that half the Members here, who have no master's degree, must be ashamed that the Greek people have chosen you for your ideology for your placement. It must be ashamed of half the Greek people, who have no master's degree. You raised the master’s degree in angel’s wings, who will rule in a way, like God’s eye. Are you serious? Is that really a conversation like this? All right, we have seen Mr. Gerapetritis before memorial years in "Speak Greek". And I've interviewed Mrs. Thanou as the first female president of the Primitives. And I'm also a journalist. What are you gonna do with me? Are you going to hang me in the handkerchiefs? Or is it forbidden to be in the JRC and to think about their political positions and positions? It tells you a man who's hanged, and in one and the other capacity, in the handkerchiefs. Is that what we're going to tell the Greek people? I only have two points to make: What danger can we hide from complex bills, which we are wasting time talking about, without actually going? You've made a body of experts. These experts, auditors, can also take private experts. I tell you this only as a sample of how it can jeopardize the perception of one with or without a tie. For there you are divided only, if you wear a tie or you do not wear a tie, if you speak with a ton "x" or a ton "f". The OECD, you agree. You agree on the toolbox. In the European Union you agree. In Maastricht, you agree. You agree in NATO. In the imperialist attacks you agree. Let's go now and see how we can save the command. So you bring them in to carry out checks. In the context of the audit, auditors may go through investigations without the necessary constitutional guarantees, judicial guarantees provided for in the Constitution and the laws. Because, as a sole obligation, you have the presence of a judicial authority. You only have to be present. They can carry out investigations - take care - and individuals among them, arrests of books, documents, electronic means of storage, transfer of data, mobile devices, portable devices, investigation of residents of all traded with the public in any case, i.e. for any reason, possibly the owner of a cylinder within a camp or at a school, without any prosecution having taken precedence over them, to the detriment of persons controlled or judicial investigation. GEORGIOS GERAPETRIT (Minister of State): requires the Public Prosecutor's Order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u229	He doesn't want an appeal order of this kind, the pre-inquiry. He wants him, whom they order after, since the controlled persons with reasonable suspicions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u230	He wants to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u231	Believe me, he wants this. For example, I will tell you the following. I don't have time to talk. Secondly, fines imposed may be imposed by the head of authority to exempt one from fines, whether a natural person or a legal person or a body, if he has been punished himself by a fine, but contributes to identifying and investigating...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u232	That's a general provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u233	Of course, it's a general provision. Let's go back to a bazaar. Don't tell me it won't be a bazaar, since the head of authority will take care of this. It'll deal with both conditions and everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u234	Mrs. Kanelle, you need to finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u235	I'll be right back, Mr. President. There is also a question of the investigation of immunity enjoyed by the commander and members of the board of directors, auditors, officials of the authority carrying out audit or preliminary investigation tasks. It is Article 101(1). He needs a little attention. I would like to say that there are delicate shades that can be escaped, where everyone thinks they will play it in the way a state operates, on the pretext that the state can be serious or effective.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u236	Mrs. Kanelle, you need to finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u237	Take good care, because seriously and effectively, they are applied, at political level by graduates, educated and unskilled, adequately qualified, politically deep and dangerous many times unpopular. History is full of people who knew very well and could kill more in less time and never be tried by the courts in history.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u238	Mrs. Rallia Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA. I would ask, from now on, that the time is strictly respected, because this is at the expense of colleagues who wish to speak and despite the extension of the time we have taken, they will not be able to do so. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my gratitude for the great honour of being able to speak from this step to the fellow citizens, who honoured me with their vote, in my party, in SYRIZA and in President Alexis Tsipras. I will fight with all my powers very hard to make myself worthy of the trust they have shown me and the opportunity they gave me to be here today. The bill under discussion is a bill that appears to be symbolic, as well as in substance, reflects the ideas of the new government and is in complete contrast with its election announcements, but also the hard criticism it has made - and possibly continues to exercise until now - in SYRIZA and in the government of Alexis Tsipras. The New Democracy was electorally talking to us about a smaller, flexible and undivided state. And we're asking ourselves, because that's the obligation of counterpopulation to ask. Is there a smaller, flexible and incomplete state, with the introduction of the newly regrouped administrative structure of the government's presidency, whose officials will have the task of reproducing the Prime Minister's power over the rest of the general public sector? The answer is: no. Is there a smaller, flexible and incomplete state, with hundreds of young employees, posted, posted and journalists, who still do not know exactly how many people they will be, who will be directly subject to the Prime Minister? The answer is no. Is there a smaller, flexible and incomplete state with the Ministerial Council lacking a significant part of its responsibilities, with the creation of five general secretariats, which will be placed under the presidency of the Government, and which will largely regulate the legislative process? The answer is: no. At the same time, there is also a lot of excellence coming, but this time on the reverse, because and the formal qualifications of the poster are being reduced and their earnings are increasing and they are growing and the prohibition of private work is being abolished, during the period working as abductors and provided for the immediate appointment of all the heads of the allegedly independent National Transparency Authority, and the abolition of the General Public Administration Inspector is also envisaged and, in fact, the investigation into open court cases, which had and has been undermined by the independent role of the ETP and the AOC and significant provisions of Law4369/16 have been abolished regarding the independence of the public administration and transitional positions of Heads of Government bodies, without assessment or timing of the successor process, are being made. And all this because? But why we need to place people of confidence in the new normality. In addition to the procedures, however, ladies and gentlemen, there is also the scope of symbolism, and here is Article 113 for Greece of 2021, where the new government has come back to terms and ideas, not only anachronistic, but I dare say dangerous. I sincerely hope that the overall change in the word, announced by the Minister of State earlier in the debate on the bill, will be implemented so that there is no national reference to Article 113. Why in 2019 did we need a state commission to highlight the values of the Greek nation? Why should we return to the development of a national account for Greece? Why and finally by whom were the single image and identity of the country threatened? Ladies and gentlemen, if something threatens Western states, if something threatens Greece, if something threatens Europe, if something threatens us today, that is social inequalities, that is unemployment, that is all kinds of fanaticism, that is the ecological disaster caused by the waste and depletion of natural resources, not the so-called national enemies and not the so-called ones. Neither rebranding need our country nor rebranding need Greeks. We're not a company, Mr. President. We are a multifaceted, diverse, modern society, composed of different people, who each has their own value and beauty. The country, therefore, needs to continue to move, for example, to the orbit of the Prespecies Agreement, rather than to the national narratives or rebranding, of those borrowed by the logic of the market. Our neighborhood history in the Balkans has taught us very painfully what happens when national narratives and major ideas are activated, unless this bill's specific initiative is aimed at cultivating a climate of separation and undermining social cohesion within the country. We also recall the recent clarification, through the Government Representative, that the allowance of EUR 2 000 for each birth is entitled to families which at least one parent is a Greek citizen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with that. But that is how we actually create two categories of children in the country, although we know very well that all children have the same need for food, the same need for love, the same need for care. So - and I close with this - the new government has been abundant. He has abdicated to parties, national and social discrimination. That is why our debt is indeed clear, not to consent to anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Ioannis Paschalides from New Democracy please come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel very honoured and grateful to every Kavaliotissa and Cavaliotis who, by their vote, have shown me as a Member of the Greek Parliament. First of all, before I go into the analysis of this bill, I would like to express my deep satisfaction at the speed with which the current government is moving, as well as the inspiring objectives set by our Prime Minister Mr Mitsotakis, whom I have the broad conviction that he will succeed. And, indeed, this bill marks the beginning of a new era for our country, with the aim of eliminating the timeless maliciousities of Greek administration and governance. The current aim is to reform the terms of 'government exercise', establishing soundly incompatible, while restructured and reorganised the basic structures. The key objective is the continuous production of governmental work, which will be constantly in a microscope with the central strategies to find a print on a strong government presidency that coordinates the whole project and supports the Prime Minister. In addition, the bill attempts - beyond all rationalisation of the way the executive exercises - to combat corruption, by adapting the state machine to modern social challenges and the needs of citizens. The aim is for citizens to regain confidence in state institutions and their transactions to be served with speed, transparency and without bureaucratic obstacles. In particular, this draft law seeks to transform the Ministerial Council into a real body with agendas, regular meetings, agendas and planning. Thus, the basic government strategy will be produced at the Ministerial Council, whose role has been downgraded in recent years and then shared with the Ministries. Also, one of the main problems that this state has had for many years is the problem of polynomialism and endless sequences of case-laws or parallel changes that shape a overcompensation of legislation, which is unclear how and to what extent they apply. It adds to this the problem of the existence of institutionalised arrangements, but which are never implemented, because the presidential decrees and ministerial decisions which mean that they are never being implemented are never promoted. The absence of codification of the legislation in force in conjunction with the case-law of the Court of Justice, together with the draft laws which are not even audited for their formality, has created a chaotic situation which is not only attractive to new investors. On the contrary, it is extremely dissuasive. This bill comes to give a solution to this huge problem of the irreversible production of laws, bringing optimising the level of legislation, while at the same time providing for a very extensive programme of codification and simplification of existing legislation, so that there is also a clearing-up of the earlier laws, which, unfortunately, have been extremely burdened with our legal order. After all, it will also be the establishment of the National Transparency Authority which will incorporate the diffuse control structures to deal with public and private corruption, such as the ILO, the EIA and the College of Environmental Inspectors, which will no longer operate in a political direction, because until now the House has been subject to a special secretary appointed by the Government. And these bodies will now belong hierarchically to a general director from the hierarchy. In other words, post-emerging general or special secretaries are removed and replaced by management directors, who will be selected from the service councils in a fully transparent and pragmatic manner. After all, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, seeking to demonstrate its trust in civil servants and public administration, as well as in order to combat partyism in the public sector, introduces, by this draft law, the position of a secretary-general to each Ministry, which will be chosen exclusively by procedures of the PSA without the involvement of the political leadership, will come from public sector officials and manage all the costs and personnel of the Ministry, as well as the coordination of public policies. It should also be noted that the candidate will be banned from posting to a party or from being a party Secretary-General five years before the application. In addition, rules of impartiality are introduced at all levels of governance - Ministers, State Secretarys, Secretaries and Governors of the EPC - with obstacles and incompatibilities that concern not only the period during which a person is in a public position but also the aftermath of his departure. In conclusion, I would like to focus on the two most basic elements of the daily lives of the citizens of this bill, which reflect all the philosophy of the current government. This draft law contains provisions ensuring accountability and transparency. In short, they are inconsistent with the entire political hierarchy, that is, from the Prime Minister to the special secretary. Moreover, for the first time a large number of responsibilities have been transferred from political leadership to public administration, demonstrating once again the absolute confidence of the government in public administration. Thus, responsibilities relating to individual, specific and specific functions will no longer reach the level of the Minister, the Deputy Secretary-General or the Secretary-General, but are carried out at the level of the Director-General, i.e. at practical level, because that is what is of real interest to the citizen. Individual administrative acts will be adopted not by the Minister or the Secretary-General, but by the Director-General responsible, so that fewer signatures and processing time will now be required, with the immediate consequence of combating bureaucracy. To conclude, I would like to call on all of us here to try for the best of this country by voting in favour of this bill, which will only have positive consequences for its daily life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u242	If you'll excuse me, I'll make a suggestion. There are sixteen Members who wish to speak, for six minutes each, who are entitled to one and a half hours. We can't make it anyway. If we limit speaking time to five minutes, they will be able to speak four more colleagues. Let's say for five minutes, from there, we see. Mrs Chabika Iatridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the second bill of the Mitsotakis Government, the draft law on the final state. It is a bill which, like the previous one, to reduce the EMCDDA and the best arrangements for the hundred and twenty instalments is doing what we promised in the election of Greeks and Greeks. Perhaps that is why it is widespread and the embarrassment of the SYRIZA Members who see that, in fact, a government so soon does what it has promised the Greek people. The creation of an effective state of functioning, with clear responsibilities, of a state that will monitor and measure the results of its policies was a key commitment of the New Democracy before the elections. This state is being promoted by the government and by the Minister responsible. It makes sense, therefore, to compare the comparison with SYRIZA, which had promised before the elections and others made during his term as government, to be chaotic and to make this awkward to colleagues of the Officerial Response. But the Greek people with their decisions ask us to look forward to making our country a normal modern country. This bill is the first important step, the starting point for a better Greece that we all want. Ladies and gentlemen, what does a state mean? In my opinion, the most important thing is for everyone to be able to monitor the implementation of policies and their respective assessment on the basis of a concrete plan. If this cannot be done, then we have a state left to his fate. This draft law ensures, through the Presidency of the Government, that the objectives and actions are monitored and complied with. It is another matter of monitoring, another issue is the competences of the ministers, everyone in their area. The structure of the government's presidency therefore facilitates both the work of the Prime Minister and the work of the Prime Minister. Another key point, in my view, is the reduction of the positions of the general and special secretaries, which saves EUR 1.8 million annually. This, combined with the reduction of posted employees, shows that this government respects taxpayers' money. In this draft law, the Government has demonstrated its confidence in civil servants, not only through the introduction of a uniform degree of service Secretary-General, whose development will be carried out through the administration itself by means of APP procedures, but also by the provision that most of the administrative material is transferred to the Directors-General. In other words, while the Mitsotakis Government with this bill actually raises civil servants and ensures the continuity of public administration away from party bumps, it is the SYRIZA colleagues who are protesting about this development. Fortunately, we are all judged by the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is moving on to another legislative initiative, that of the establishment of the National Transparency Authority. I believe that the creation of this principle is the epitome of what we call an effective state. Under the new principle, all public administration control bodies are integrated in order to combat corruption more effectively. If it is a question of effectiveness, this authority will ensure economies of scale, and above all, it will coordinate actions, prevent the confusion of competences and, in fact, it will be more effective and above all more efficient. It is, moreover, our commitment to transparency everywhere and always. This is ensured by the principle of transparency and by ensuring that all checks are carried out are carried out on a regular basis. Furthermore, this draft law ensures that auditors are also audited. Transparency, then, for everyone and everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis' election commitment to a better Greece presupposes that we make better and fewer laws. Polynomiality and evil have troubled citizens and are one of the main reasons why they are often hostile to their state. With the provisions of this bill and the establishment of a General Secretariat for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, I believe that the programme of maliciousness will be considerably reduced. And good and user legislation means good relations between the citizens and the state, which is a key priority of the Government of New Democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law creates a modern, efficient and efficient state, creates a state that operates in conditions of transparency, control and evaluation of the results of the policies implemented, creates a state at the service of citizens, respecting their money, creates a state that shows confidence in civil servants and moves forward in ensuring the continuity of public administration, away from changing parties to government. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Gerapetritis and his colleagues have presented a bill on the final state that meets modern requirements and challenges, a state that I am sure will meet the expectations of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u244	Mrs. Sultana Eleftheriadou is invited to Stepma by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with one observation: the New Democracy Parliamentary Group is not at all healthy. Two words about this: The first reason I found him today, the second reason I borrowed him by the Minister of State. The first reason is that you applaud Mr. Mitsotakis without any reason, just because he gives you the signal, raising his voice. For example, how many times will you applaud the election outcome? How many times will Mr Mitsotakis use the popular verdict to avoid the criticism of the opposition in your own bills? The second reason why I was borrowed by the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u246	Tell us where to sit and ask for permission before we applaud!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u247	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u248	Please, go on! Don't interrupt, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u249	The second reason why I was borrowed by the Minister of State when I heard his speech on the bill in the committee is that none of the Members who spoke these two days did not make a single comment, he did not ask for a single explanation, he did not propose a single amendment to your bill. So you said to the committee of Parliament in the bill that your dream and your aim are to get the majority Members to criticise your work and, indeed, to vote against when they disagree. Unfortunately, your goal and your dream have not been achieved in this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u250	There's gonna be more to come. Don't worry!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u251	You'll have more for sure, but you won't have the first and last word in the next bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u252	I wish that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u253	Please don't have a dialogue. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u254	You personally have received so many comments. Have your MPs not seen them, have they not read them, or are they afraid to speak, fearing Lord Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u255	Well, what are you doing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u256	I didn't interrupt you. I hope, Minister, that your dream will be realized in the future and that you will finally have the parliamentary group you have dreamed of.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u257	Please don't interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u258	But I predict you'll be disappointed...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u259	Say about the bill, and let's do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u260	I'm interrupted, Mr. President. I'll talk a little bit more. But I predict, Minister, that you will be disappointed, because in the positions you are enacting, people who do not have your own purpose will enter. As far as your face is concerned, I have to mention that it's a commendable mood...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u261	I'm sorry, Mrs. Eleftheriadou. Please, Mr. Colleague, are you filming? That's forbidden. You have not even addressed the Bureau. You're obviously a new colleague. Take a look at the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u262	Mr. President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u263	Keep going. She'll be kept for half a minute, Mrs. Eleftheriadou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u264	As far as your face is concerned, Minister, I have to say that it is commendable that you answer, that you listen to all the interlocutors, regardless of what they belong to, except for your reply yesterday to Mr Ragosi, whom I saw on television, which I think was a misunderstanding and you did not understand exactly what he meant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u265	Don't comment. If Mr. Ragus wanted to, he'd take the floor to answer. You limit yourself to your suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u266	I think I can say what I want in my report. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u267	Come on, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u268	So I have truly distinguished you from your government ministers, who most of the first samples of writing, in my view, show ignorance, arrogance, a lack of schedule and vision and a willingness to satisfy private interests alone. The thing is, of course, that you have no sense of humor, because yesterday, as the President of my parliamentary group ended, you were rather drifting away from Mr Adonai Georgiadis, who sat next to you, you said that you tried to compare the forecast for the failure of the bill to predict the outcome of the SYRIZA elections. I would like to tell you that, when we anticipate elections, we can fall out a little bit, because the people decide in the elections and the consequences come to the people. But when we legislate, we have no right to fall out. The adverse effects on the people of this bill will always follow your name, Minister, and that is why, because it will be the first and last bill you will have on the first and last floor, I hope you will be sure why you did not accept all of the remarks made by the Vice-Population - Officer and non-Population - and especially why you have not accepted a transitional stage in the 'independent' administration - in in introductory terms the word - to the National Transparency Authority. And I will go on to another prediction that it will also fail the bill, because it is full of contradictions and conflicts of competence, but that you, without having the essential responsibility, will be linked to cover-up and archiving of corruption cases that exist in the Greek State at the moment and are being examined. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll try to say the most basics, because I have limited time. It will then fail the bill because you do not take into account when legislating on the paths of legislative and executive power in Greece for the last forty years, diseases that the New Democracy has not only covered, but has cultivated to serve party and other purposes. Your party, Minister, has no white record. Your party has been there for many years, it is not a new party that will change political things. Everything that the President of SYRIZA complained about in his speech concerns your party, however awkward Mr Mitsotakis smiled when he listened to the President of SYRIZA. And I don't understand why he smiled when we talked about a party tube. It's not much of a interest to him. You therefore have an obligation when you are legislated to have who to carry out what you are doing, what persons will enter those positions that you create and what consequences they will have for the Greek people. On the bill, it will be the only two things for Article 113, such as that you are nullifying the role of the House when you announced what will be the chairman of this committee that you are establishing, without the bill being passed itself. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask that we be given what Mr Voutsis said there are copies, such as the work already done, in order to be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u269	Please, my colleague, I gave you a minute and a half more and a break.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u270	One more minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u271	Please, get it over with. Your time has gone out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u272	Just for the point of order, you tell us in all our remarks and reservations that everyone will be checked because procedures are provided for. I, therefore, did not see in the introduction of your first draft to the committee that these procedures should be respected. On the contrary, they have passed and been circumvented in the name of understanding, as the chairman of the committee referred to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u273	Please, my colleague, get it over with. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u274	I want you to have in mind when you promise transparency that when there is a majority and vote for everything, there will be no transparency if the procedures are not respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u275	Please get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u276	As far as the final state is concerned, we can say 'party', we can say 'popular', 'publisher' and above all 'polywood'. But, unfortunately, I don't have time to develop them. For all these reasons, I am voting against the bill and I call on the world to react to the desolation of our society.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u277	I would ask Mrs Makre from New Democracy to take the floor. And then there's Mr. Scandalides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u278	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for giving me the floor to address this House. I hate to believe that I am a healthy member of this old party, the party that has history about which it is fascinating, who has helped and saved the country many times. And I am one of the firm applauders of the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, because I think I should reward him and my applause for the consistency, speed, with which he and his Government are legislating and implementing the programme for which the Greek people have voted for, which one cannot question and which we are pleased about. You see, we don't have any illusions, no idealism, nor do we want to waste time. Today's governance, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is a symbolic choice for one of its first bills on the reform of the state and public administration, because we have all seen from our own - and not only - experiences in our everyday life in the last few years - the malfunctions of the public administration and the state, which ultimately have the same citizen. It is the citizen who bears a burden on pathogens and lack of efficiency in the functioning of the state and administration, so there is widespread distrust. So this diffuse mistrust comes to answer this bill, which together with the tax reform bill and what has just been discussed and will be introduced into plenary tomorrow, is essentially the triple of the institutional relaunch of the state. It is, therefore, a governance manual based on two main axes. We change the government, we trust the administration with the aim of consolidating the public's confidence in the state by demilitarising its operation. The first basic rule of this bill relates to interventions by the Government which change the overall management model. The Ministerial Council, by a qualified decision-making body, will become a key policy forum in collective procedures, with an organisational schedule, with a programme produced by the Ministerial Council, followed by a centralised system of governance, will determine whether there are delays and the necessary coordination. Furthermore, for the first time, a grid of rules of impartiality is introduced at the level of the Minister - Secretary-General - Secretary-General, so that there are no obstacles and incompatibilities for these government positions during and after the end of the government term. A second important pillar of the bill is the fact that we trust public administration and civil servants, who have extremely great experience and know-how. This pillar comes to heal one of the greatest pathologies of Postpopulation in Greece, the vague distinction between political administration and service. There was in the past and there continued to be a osmosis at many levels, so that politics and administration can interact, and many times this tends to produce corruption or cultivate customer relations. So this bill puts an end to this pathogen, defines the pillar of civil administration and the pillar of service, so that there are completely clear roles and that the policy on administration does not prevail. This will ensure the continuity of the state through an administration that is not dependent on politics, will not serve political directions, will not be controlled by political authorities. Another innovation in this draft law, beyond taking the codification initiative, which not only creates economies of scale, but also is based on the principle of legality and the principle of transparency, is without doubt the establishment of the National Transparency Authority that will incorporate the scattered control structures to deal with public and private corruption consistently, with the continuation of controls, with transparency and speed. There is no doubt that this bill, which is distributed horizontally by the principles of non-discrimination and neutrality of the state, makes a very important effort to demilitarise and dismantle so that the citizen regains his relationship with the State, a state whose function is based on the principles of good administration, efficiency and efficiency. This bill demonstrates the good preparation and intentions of the government and, of course, sets out the objections of counter-population to arbitrary and partisanism. It unifys diffuse provisions, makes useful general rules - although the problem has never been the lack of rules, but their lack of application - and is trying to rationalise the functioning of the state, because it has a unique objective, a better, more qualitative and reliable governance of the country, but a country, Minister, which we must not forget is very central. We must also not forget that the final state must also be a decentralised state. I am sure that the legislative initiative under discussion will only be the beginning. Your sincere attitude, your political outlet to accept the remarks and suggestions of the Opposition proves that you really want to correct the wrong texts and you will never give any of us the opportunity to vote against any legislative initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u279	I would also like to thank Mrs Matutes and thank her for the time she has taken. Mr. Scandalides from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u280	Mr President, give my time to Mr Scandalidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u281	With the amendment of the Rules of Procedure that we shall be doing, Mr Kegeroglu, we shall be able to vote for this, but it is not currently foreseen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u282	The President is good and will treat me accordingly. Mr President-in-Office, I wish you a success. You have undertaken - all of them, but I speak particularly of you two who are ahead - a very difficult task in a very difficult period. I think you're in a good mood to succeed. I wish you had effectiveness too. Ladies and gentlemen, the government considers the two bills urgent and first of all its overall strategy for governance, state and self-government. I'm talking about today's bill and tomorrow's bill. I have tried to link the areas that are being attempted with the overall perception and practice of them throughout, because I think they have a consistency and a follow-up. I had the good intention of seeing them from the point of view of progressive and modernising reform. Sadly, no matter how good I am, I have come to the almost self-proof conclusion. You see, the conservative party in our country is impossible to obtain from the time-consuming consequence of the state of the right, invested in modern processes and loan practices that in their extreme form take the lubrication expression 'l' état, c'est moi'. Over-concentration is the word that characterises both bills, the conservative perception and attitude of modernism. Where do we meet the hyperconcentration? First of all, in the organization of governance. I read yesterday in a text of the latcher - a serious man - "Kathimerini", Pantellis Boukala, the following article: "Pharmacos was the final state or an euphemism of centralism which makes Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis the quasi president of the President-in-Office of the Republic in a State that still remains a President-in-Office of the Council?". I think this piece gives the whole picture of what you are trying under the title 'final state'. It is a concentration of power and I am surprised that I have heard Mr Mitsotakis bring as an example the lyrics of Sutsu. He can see them a little bit from the backwards, that it is the hydro-headed state that is being built, that hydro-headed governance is the one that ultimately subjugates the trunk of democracy and development in its own options. Secondly, there is unbelievable addition of General Secretariat structures, Directorates-General that use every creative initiative and breath of policy itself. Because there is a backwards, Minister, point of view. It is not only the policy that enables the administration to decide and sign and break red tape, but it is also the possibility of politics giving its lifelong breath to an administration that is basically standing neutral against basic choices relating to social powers. They have nothing to do with a process of technocratic affairs. Thirdly, it is right to think about the need to simplify procedures through e-government, a noteworthy effort, but it is, in practice, undermined by a superfood management structure that shows not to trust the computer and the heroic employees of the JEPs. Why are you actually building a transfer of a model to our country for a large state when Greece is a very small province at a global level. Fourthly, the transition from the diffusion and dismantling that brings about the way in which the simple proportionality has been introduced to the municipalities by the previous government, to the very opposite of an executive that forms artificially majority and decides for everything. This is the classic right in our country which, instead of intervening, correcting, transforming their function into the direction of strengthening democracy and upgrading its institutional formation, effectively neglects them as annoying and effective exercise of power. Ladies and gentlemen, we have followed Alexis Tsipras yesterday and today to criticise the party state that Mr Mitsotakis is trying to build, its neoliberal character and its graceful provisions, defending the institutions, democracy and democracy. I am thinking of how short and selective the memory of its own governance, of its own state, of its own manipulation of institutions, of its own graceful provisions and of how complex the complaint about the neoliberal nature of the choices is, when the proposed solutions of the government grow the state, multiply their structures, carry models of larger and deeper structures that are unfounded in our country. He was wrong. The statement of the traditional right that these bills show requires their neoliberal Prime Minister and his ambition to appear as such. As far as our perspective is concerned, we are still emphasizing the model of a modern democratic and decentralised state, which in fact provides for two things, the brave decentralisation of governance, which means decentralising powers, competences and resources on the basis of principles, the closeness to the citizen in decision-making, the subsidiarity of institutions in terms of development pyramid, the proportionality of responsibilities in terms of the allocation of powers, the administrative and economic autonomy of local and regional authorities, and a digital state, which has modern and flexible structures, which keeps public revenues, foreign and security policy, control mechanisms and all else decentralises them in self-government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a historical and time-consuming comment. Our country will celebrate the two hundred years of state in 2021...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u283	Revolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u284	The creation of the modern Greek state. Okay, I'm sorry. I'm doing my self-criticism and correcting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u285	Finish, Mr. Scandalides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u286	For the last forty-five years, what we call contributory as Postpopulation has been the brightest period of modern history. Although many have distorted it, they want to rewrite it, it's not possible. Nevertheless, the entire period had the achilles heel, which is the state. Three things I'll say. The inconvenience is the ganger of public administration and, more generally, of political power. The 2002 JEPs would be electronic identity in 2008 and full electronic governance in 2010 and we have 2021. Change in the state, planning, studies, foreign government agencies have constantly brought committees from Europe to tell us how to design the great state, a simple state that could be redesigned...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u287	Finish, Mr. Scandalides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u288	Excuse me, Mr. President. I just need a minute. So a state that could be redesigned in a very simple political way and really build a new story, instead of all of us sworn to the small and flexible shape. We say it, we who dared to change, we who have found you all across, we who in the name of political cost often left half of these changes. But you always opposite and left-wing and right-wing and conservative and ambitious. And what are we living today? Alexis Tsipras to discover the revolutionary Andreas, but not his radical changes, and Kyriakos Mitsotakis to discover in 2004 as the best moment in modern history, that is Kostas Simitis. I fear, Minister, that Mr Simitis' block will make coordination easier than the structure you are trying to set up in the field of governance. This alone shows that our party, no matter how much it is looted, no matter how much you try to be devastated, will be here and there, because the place needs it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Kalamatian Dionysios is invited to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, for the next year's economy, I will go straight to the point. From studying the provisions and explanatory statement of the draft law on the final state, we note that it is moving towards the reproduction of an internal organisational chart, which could also be an organisational chart for a private company. His crucial element is the bureaucratic view. We note that it is distinguished for typology, strict hierarchical construction, rationalization, technocracy. All of this is closely combined with a centralised trend of bureaucratic control and, indeed, with clear evidence of the strengthening of the prime minister's power. This is essentially a manual, as Mr Mitsotakis said, in a public administration school, which concerns different experiences and realities, ignoring the specific issues of our place. His logic and approach moves out of society. In short, the draft law on the final state is far from being needed for a democratic, productive, effective social state. It has the misleading title "final state" but it is nothing but the epitome of the New Democracy Government in the state, with a neoliberal client party logic coming from the darkest days of the past. Why else would one describe these arrangements with which the government is attacking the state mechanism? Not only by devouring provisions that fortify public administration to the party-state, but also by placing its chosen ones as head in critical areas. It is precisely the distribution shown by the government since the beginning of its administration, with the assumption by the PPP Prime Minister, the Athenian News Agency, the ERT, but also the delegation of powers directly to the State Secretarys, thus removing the possibility of policy from the relevant ministers. The collection of superpowers around the Prime Minister's office runs completely counter to the principle of decentralisation of powers by central government, their transfer to the bodies of decentralised administration and, in particular, local government. It is typical of some of the regulations of the bill that blatantly affect transparency, merit and degrade public administration by turning them into a spoil of an attempt to rectify the party state. As we have said, the prestige of the Ministerial Council is reduced, with the existence of critical responsibilities by the President of the Government and also by the Prime Minister himself. This was also pointed out by Members of the majority. How can one explain the unacceptable provisions concerning the direct placement of party options in the position of commander and all the heads of the supposedly independent National Transparency Authority? New Democracy's obsession with these practices proves its real plan. He is not interested in creating a truly independent and effective principle. It shows particular importance and interest in the abolition of the institution of the Public Administration Inspector General, the suffocation of the new body and the bridging of all outstanding cases relating to the public sphere. It is therefore logical that the question should be raised. What are you afraid of? What do you want to cover up? How will you justify the fact that the standard ratings for post-mortem employees are reduced and their remuneration is increased? Mr Minister, you have also asked our President, Mr Tsipras and many other speakers. Convincing response we have not yet received on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u291	You'll get one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u292	Despite disguised populism for four and a half years, while constantly criticising us for their so-called large number, you are now coming and increasing it. How will you explain the abolition of the flagship provisions of Law No.4369/2016 on the collection of public administration by selecting administrative secretaries? With the bill you enter, the political positions of the Secretary-General are maintained. For the selection of service secretaries you have increased moleculosis in an interview that degrades objectivity and merit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You are abolishing the National Civil Service Register. You degrade the graduates of the National School of Public Administration and Government, as you like them as graduates.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u293	It's changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u294	You said that the project was drafted by graduates. It creates reasonable questions how you reduce the value of graduates. It is true that following a strong reaction from our MPs and also from the relevant bodies in the debate in the bill, you have returned to a number of critical issues, realizing that you are now causing society openly. Indicatively, following the objections made to the relevant committees of Parliament, the provocative provision for the exclusion of candidates for the posts of secretaries of ministries with party criteria has been deleted. The unacceptable provision for the possibility of private individuals being placed in positions headed by the National Transparency Authority has also been removed. However, the core of the bill remains unchanged and completely counter-reform. The de facto state that is evangelizing the New Democracy is, in fact, absolutely neoliberal, party, overconcentrating. Turns public administration into the pathogens that led to an ineffective and hostile for the vast majority of citizens...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u295	Mr. Comrade, please hang up. You've been talking for six minutes. So that other Members can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u296	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, I would suggest that you think again, ladies and gentlemen of the government, although there are not many ladies in the government. Perhaps this is an indication of the disposal of the state of service you wish. The state doesn't belong to you. You're not his owners, as you want to believe. It belongs to the people. He must serve. We'll be against the logic of turning the country's public services into the black pages of the past. That is why we are voting against your proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u297	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The reason for Mr. Papadopoulos Athanasios from SYRIZA is then Mr. Fotillas from New Democracy. We'll see if one more or two can talk. Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u298	Let us remember this. The government of Kostas Karamanlis in 2004 succeeds the government of Kostas Simitis. The new government's objective is to re-establish the state. Many leading officials of the New Democracy accompanied their criticism in the state they received from PASOK, with crowns about the high priest of interlocutory and other conflicts with pimps. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, what progress has been made and the state re-establishment in the five years 2004-2009 and the supposed break with pimps. The government of supposedly rationalisation of executive power has led to explosive deficits, overcompensation, Memorandum custody. In 2019 re-establishment is now taking place and designing a state of service. The draft law, which you have tabled with drumcrossing over the timeless failure of governments to effectively promote the necessary structural reforms of the executive, is accompanied by declarations of an important section in the functioning of the incomplete and ineffective Greek state, as well as announcements of a transition to the modern state of law and other barbards. Ladies and gentlemen, the purification of the correctness of each theory is the unity of theory and action. The first samples of writing of the Government of New Democracy are inconsistent with the declarations of the executive's response to modern social challenges and citizens' wishes, with the announcements of assessment, merit, selection of excellent ones. Evaluation is a valuable process for the selection of objectives, instruments and individuals. Typical examples of your own arbitrary assessment have been found in the choices of the new Prime Minister for the face of the new commander of EKP, for the Minister of Finance of Mr. Luli, the representative of LAMDA DEVELOPMENT, with the definition of the President of ELPE, the Minister of Finance of the derailment of the Greek economy in the years 2008 and 2009. I am not going to use many of the provisions of the draft law to prove that this draft law does not show the necessary definite state as described by our own rapporteurs, it does not indicate the state - a headquarters described by Haris Kastanides - there is no evidence of the democratic decentralisation of responsibilities of the State and of the public administration in regional and local government; it does not show the effective state of protection of the citizen and its rights, proper governance, dignity, subsidiarity, integrity, transparency and accountability. With the provisions of the draft law, we are actually seeing the re-establishment of the hydro-headed overconcentrated, conservative, liberal state. The National Transparency Authority, set up as a new proxy independent authority, gathers all control powers, subtracts all control bodies as independent authorities, abolishes the Public Administration Inspector General, the Inspector General of the JHA, the Director General of Public Works, Transport and so on. Indications on the offer and work of Public Administration Inspectors and Ms. Papaspyrous had all the members of the Committee of Inquiry into scandals in health and medicine. As a doctor, a public servant for thirty-five years, I am focused on the work of the EDPS and the side effects caused by the draft law. The Health and Welfare Inspectors' College was responsible for the Ministry of Health and was responsible for developing and operating a central and regional mechanism for carrying out systematic inspections, audits and investigations. The duties of the ESS were the checks at the EOF, the EEAS, hospitals, health centres, the National Health Business Centre and many others. In the Committee of Inquiry into Inquiry into Health and the medicine we listened carefully to the Inspector General of the EEAS, Mr Stavros Evangelatos, presenting with complete documentation on the overpricing of health material, medicines, radiopharmaceuticals, reagents. We asked, dear Minister, about his course and we found that it was a pharmacist, a non-revocable employee of the EEAS, with huge experience and postgraduate studies chosen by Maki Voridis, who remained with the Minister Panagiotis Kouroublis and Andreas Xanthos, who reassessed him as a general inspector. With the draft law, you're abrogating it. The tasks that this body will have and are unknown are unknown. Submission of the SPS to the National Transparency Authority is an important additional reason for voting against a bill that does not substantiate the promises of the explanatory statement on the correct integration of the structures and functions of the current bureaucratic and inefficient state, does not take advantage of good practice in European reality, does not support merit, does not guarantee the progress towards the modern state that we need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u299	Thank you. Last speaker, Mr Jason Fotillas, will be speaking for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u300	I'm sorry, we agreed there'd be a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill that comes to give solutions to pathogens of decades, a bill which contains provisions that improve the functioning of the government, a Ministerial Council which collectively shapes policy objectives and gives the ministries the necessary implementation actions, provisions that will enable the Prime Minister to monitor the fulfilment of the objectives and actions set out in each Ministry and only intervene when the timelines of decisions are delayed, provisions such as the establishment of a ministerial Secretary-General placed through PSPE, in essence, not as was the case with the eyes of the world with the registry of SYRIZA officials and it will be different from the political Secretary-General, so that red tape and corruption can be reduced to a large extent. Finally, it contains provisions such as the one for the creation of a new National Transparency Authority, under which all six Public Administration Control Bodies are integrated, in order to combat more effectively corruption, a truly independent authority that will be accountable to the House. But I would like to turn to the former Prime Minister's speech yesterday. Yesterday, and today, we heard Mr. Tsipras making another delicacy of hatred and populism, speaking of the time of dictatorship, about the para-state of the right, about the Bolsonar of Brazil and the Orban of Hungary. She forgot, of course, to mention Venezuela. Obviously, because against him in Venezuela they have democracy. That is how Mr Tsipras perceives democracy, like that of Venezuela. So we heard Mr Tsipras yesterday and his current position, where he made cheap accusations and references to occupied people. He said, "I do not blame Mr. Gerapetiti's legal fees, but he brought them and testified them. Indeed, since he does not object to them, why did he testify to us the gains of Mr Gerapetti in Parliament's plenary session? So, if he'd embedded Mr. Gerapetritis' fees, what would he bring to the House? So whoever yesterday listened to Mr. Tsipras certainly wondered, but why is he doing this? Why does he insist on this policy of polarization and division? Why did the Greek people not understand the very clear message they gave him on 7 July when they voted against this particular policy and said yes to Greece of all Greeks? The answer, ladies and gentlemen, is simple. Because Mr. Tsipras doesn't know how to do anything else. He doesn't know how to deal differently. The only way he knows and in which he went to this day is lies and populism. That's how he grew up. That's how he learned the politics. And it's obvious he's in full panic. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, why is Mr. Tsipras in full panic? Because he sees, like all Greeks, that Greece is changing, moving forward. There is a normal country where progress and development will take precedence. And all that the Greek people see them, they see them taking flesh and bones from the first days of the country's governance and Mr. Tsipras trembles in the idea of a Greece where taxes will be low and money will not accumulate in public funds, but will return to the market. He trembles in the idea of a Greece, where the business will not be a hell of a crime, but will be a tool for progress and development, since Greece, which the independent authorities will be truly independent authorities, of a Greece that is friendly to all investments, small, large, medium, foreign, domestic, of a rule that will be work and an exception will be the allowance. Mr Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen, is trembling on the idea of a state that is interested in making the poor middlemen rather than the medium-sized poor. A Greece that citizens now know comes only with vision, design and hard work, not with benefits and lies. Mr Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen, finally, he trembles on the idea of a Greece that excellence will not be retaliatory and the flag in the parades will not be taken by the luckier, but will be taken by the best. Because that is, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's Greece, and since 7 July this is Greece of today. And Mr. Tsipras is rightly in panic, because he knows that in Greece there is no room for him, nor for his fellow citizens. To be honest - and I am closing with this - if today Nea Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis are able to build this Greece that we are all envisioning, Mr Tsipras has helped. For he has succeeded in degrading the last Greek citizen's conscience to this supposed advantage of this so-called Left. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Thank you, Mr. Tsipras. Thank you, but you no longer have anything else to offer to the country. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] In Greece of truth and preparedness you do not, Mr. Tsipras. Have a good night!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u302	The Minister of State Georgios Gerapetristis is called in Stepma. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, please take the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u304	There's no question now, Mr. Castanides. Nor was there a matter of staff nor a matter of any kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u305	I did not say on personal grounds, I said on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u306	It's a review, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u307	It is for the Rules of Procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u308	Leave now, that's agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u309	It's obvious you didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u310	Mr President, you have been asked to speak on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u311	Mr President, will you give me the floor for half a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u312	It is on the Rules of Procedure, but please, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u313	I'm not one of the people who raise personal issues. When the President of Parliament came to the Chamber and announced, at a meeting we had here about an hour and a half ago, that there would be an extension of the debate, one of the reasons he invoked and accepted is that the rapporteurs and the special speakers would exercise the right of denial. The Minister has taken the floor to close and if you think I am not accurate, please consult the President of this House internally. You cannot, therefore, once the extension has been given to the rapporteurs, close with the Minister. If the Minister wants to close down, the rapporteurs and the special speakers should first be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u314	Not to close, Mr. Castanides. I'm not gonna make use of it then...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u315	I repeat, that was why you can reach out to the President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u316	The extension, Mr Kastanidis, was given more, following the agreement of the parties with the President of Parliament, to speak more Members. It's a practice. Theoretically, according to the Rules of Procedure, it's like you said. But there is a practice that has been done in the past. There was a consensus and there is therefore no question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u317	It is a plenary decision, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u318	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u319	Thank you very much. I would like to begin by thanking my colleagues once again for the drafting of this bill. As you know, the Minister of State is a one-sided structure. In other words, it has no structure below it, so it was a relatively personalized structure. I should therefore like to thank Mr Leonidas Christopoulos, Secretary-General of Digital Governance, and a very good staff of civil servants who helped me draft this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall mention what I have heard last week and what I have not heard. I heard that I was at the same time in consultation and retreat. That, in other words, I was in the mood to hear, but on the other hand, I heard because I was under pressure from the opposition. You will allow me to say with all due respect that I have heard because this is my mood and my faith in Parliament. And that, as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to watch it forever. I am here to listen and serve Parliament. I heard that this bill was also well studied to establish a party state, but it was also sloppy. So alpha and other than alpha is also valid. The reality was that it was a bill that was largely processed in analysis. Of course, there were issues which should be put forward and which were particularly useful in this respect by the members of the Standing Parliamentary Committee and those of the speakers who took advantage of this step. I would like to thank the rapporteurs, both in the Coupling and in the Reconciliation, for their highly creative contribution. I have heard, ladies and gentlemen, that a party state and an anonymous company are being installed in this bill. But both of them can't be. Because the anonymous company is the opposite of the party state. What is true is that a set of structures, which is based on public functions, neither party nor private, are created in public functions. I have heard at the same time that this bill incorporates a conviction in favour of publicity and gives great potential by despising the Minister from a great political power, but on the other hand it also weakens public service. Why? Because, for example, it is downgrading - that was the expression, which has been exploited - the market control bodies, i.e. the ILO, the IMO and the Environment Inspectorate, because the political leader will no longer exist, that is, there will be no special secretary appointed by the Government, but there will be a Director-General from the hierarchy. And that was described as a deterioration. In other words, the fact that a substantial amount of material and self-reliance has been attributed to the stage of public service has been considered to be a deterioration in this House. I have heard that at the same time we are establishing a centralised state and a neoliberal state. They can't be both. The theory considers that or one is true...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u320	Both.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u321	They don't both apply because...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u322	Please don't have a dialogue. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u323	Both do not apply to the neoliberal state, at least as you understand it. Because I have often heard the reference to the rule of Thatcher. What happened was not centralized structures in Thatcher. It was the privatisation of the state. Here, the exact opposite happens. There was a very centralized closed power structure on Thatcher, and then, otherwise, it was attributed to private individuals. So, this...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u324	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u325	Today, deviating from the fact - in my opinion - that I have a very high level of the last two days and last week in the Standing Parliamentary Committee, I have heard the last contrast, that I, as a private professional, cannot have private customers, but I cannot have the public as a customer. So we are really in a logic of constant contradictions. What did I not hear from this bill and I would have liked it to have been heard? I have not heard as much as I should have known that a cut, which we have been discussing for forty-five years in Greece, namely the transfer of all the administrative material of individual actions to the administration, is the largest part of the modern Greek state. And those involved in administrative science know what I'm talking about. 80% of the matter passes into the hands of the public service. The Minister, as you often mention him - and it seems generally to us to have a reasonable honourer of the Minister - retains his powers vis-à-vis the Prime Minister, retains the function of the ministry's strategy, that is to say, to adopt regulatory acts with Parliament's approval, and only the adoption of individual acts, which are adopted on the basis of the law, decrees and decisions. There is now a law curtailing bureaucracy by more than 50%. There's a very serious speed in handling cases. And, above all, there is a deep shrinking of possible outbreaks of corruption, because now the issues, which will be crucial for the granting of rights, will go back to the administration. I also did not hear a provision, which was not put forward at all, that the Greek State should finally organise recruitments for the entire Greek state from May to May for the following year, a necessary modernist reform division, which works in the context of what we are trying to put as a final state, in the programming state. We have not heard a word about the fact that this bill finally introduces new sectors into public administration in the country: public policy analysts, lawmakers, digital analysis industry. These are sectors which, in advanced systems, have been in existence for decades and are coming to us with this bill too late. I have not heard that for the first time a basic rule is introduced that the provisions which have an impact on entrepreneurship in the country will not be in force tomorrow, but at least a period of two months and in any case only twice a year, on 1 July and 1 January, these provisions will enter into force. Finally, there will be predictability in terms of business activity in the country, which applies to advanced systems. For the first time - and I have not heard this either - an independent Committee on Ethics is introduced by the country's civil servants who will now be overseeing what each political person, the Minister, when he comes from his political position, is doing so as to avoid conflicts of interest. Anything that the Minister is doing as a professional or related activity now, leaving the position we are now in should have the authorization of the Ethics Committee, which can prohibit the exercise of an activity. Isn't that a pioneering transparency rule? There has been no talk of the fact that we at last have an evaluation of the results of the implementation of the arrangements. The law is not only of value in its preparation, nor in its application. The value of the law is not exhausted today if it is passed by you. The great value of the law has to do with how it will be implemented and until now there has been no ex ante assessment of the legislative impact. It's introduced for the first time. A lot has been said about whether or not this bill constitutes a contribution to democracy. It has been heard on many occasions that it is an anti-democratic model. I put aside the fact that an anti-democratic model is actually being applied to the most powerful European democracies. What I would like to stress is that democracy also requires other things than the self-evident ones which are the rule of law and the social state. It requires regularity and requires, above all, transparency and accountability. You will allow me, with all due respect, to know that it is not one of those very attractive, the poster is obviously more attractive, but if I wanted to take this step in my "spiritual child", let me say so, I would point out one thing, I would highlight Article 49 of the bill. Article 49 of the bill has not been mentioned and I wanted to see if it will be mentioned. What does Article 49 provide for? That the Ministerial Council as a collective body approves a single government plan by month December, approves the operational plans of each Ministry and these two packages, the single government and ministries' plans, assembles and become citizens' property. Citizens can now know what the policy established by the Ministerial Council is at all times and with regard to this policy will be accountable to the Ministers. That, if I may say so, is the epitome of democracy, because we will no longer have a governance that will be dark. Each citizen can judge and assess his or her ministers and political leadership. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'll close, Mr. President. I cannot accept what was heard in this Chamber that the bills are approved by the people. The bills are passed by the House of Representatives and are in favour of the people. This is not an academic experiment, as to what you have in front of you. It's not the academic perversion I have in things. It's a model that's tested everywhere. And you will allow me to say that what occurred in most places was what was said: We are familiar with the mess. This has been said and said by this seat. And because we are familiar with the mess, these things cannot be applied in Greece. Well, these things have to be implemented in Greece, because at some point we need to obtain standardised procedures and we need to acquire the regularity of a genuine European state. And I feel quiet about my conscience. We will be here and we will all be judged, but today that we are talking about this bill, I feel quiet about my conscience that I bring in what can bring a genuine change, a genuine modernisation in the country. And I do so on the grounds of knowledge and the conviction of responsibility towards the next generations. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You will allow me to close with something that I often mention is one of my favourite words by Woodrow Wilson, the eighth President of the United States, who said that the history of freedom, for which we are all here, is written by the procedures that demarcate power. And such procedures are being written for the first time today in a single text. And I feel that against history today we have a clear conscience, with clear responsibilities, with clear responsibility and the citizen remains the owner of power. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Minister of State is adjourned: 'Financial State: the organisation, operation and transparency of the government, the Governmental Institutions and the Central Public Administration'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u328	It's over, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, I would like to speak. Can the debate be closed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u330	Give me a minute, Mr President, to clarify...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u331	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u332	Listen, a question was raised by a colleague. Listen, let me explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u333	Do not explain, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u334	No, it's okay, so there's no questions. My colleague asked how the vote would be taken, since we have a roll-call vote. Observations on all articles have also been developed by parliamentarians and a roll-call vote will be held on these articles. That's how it always happens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, one clarification!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u336	So we're moving on. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Insert the page. 304a]] Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u339	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u340	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u341	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u342	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u343	The draft law of the Minister of State: ‘State State: Organisation, operation and transparency of government, government bodies and central government’ was accepted by a majority in principle. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on Rules 36, 37, 41 to 44, 82 to 103 and 118 of the bill a roll-call vote of members of the SYRIZA has been applied in accordance with Rule 72(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u344	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mrs. Gerovassili Olga. Here. Mr. Spirjis Christos. Here you go. Ms. Xenogiannakopoulou Marilissa. Here. Mrs. Ahchioglou Afe. Here. Mr. Famelos Socrates. Here you go. Mr. Tsipras George. Here you go. Mrs. Eleftheriadou Sultana. Here. Mr. Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Janakopoulos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Moraite Athanasios. Here you go. Mrs. Aggiris Theodora. Here. Mr. Dr. Theodoros. Here you go. Mrs Agathopoulos Irene - Helen. Here. Mr. Paulakis. Here you go. Mr. Vassiliou. Here you go. Mr. Katrugalos George. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourning our meeting for ten (10') minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u345	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on Articles 36, 37, 41 to 44, 82 to 103 and 118 of the draft law of the Minister of State: ‘Administrative State: ‘Organisation, operation and transparency of the Government, Government Institutions and Central Public Administration’. Receiving the articles of the bill reads “THE”. The non-accepting articles of the bill say 'OHS'. The voters say 'PARON'. Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas from New Democracy and Mrs Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA are on the list. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote in principle, on the articles and on the amendment to the draft law. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the following count. I would ask that the list be read slowly, so that Members' votes are also clear, because the proposal includes more than one article, and that the voters' work in counting should also be facilitated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u346	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u347	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that my fellow Members, and Mr von der Vring, have taken part in this debate. Constantine Al. Karamanlis, Olga Kefefaliannis, Nikolaos - Georgios Dendias, Theodoros Karaoglou, Ioannis Drasakis, Panagiotis Skourletis, Nikolaos Philis, Ioannis Amanatidis, Socrates Vardakis, Fotini (Photi) Genomes and Constantina Adamou will not be present in today's roll-call vote and let us know by letter of vote. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting but are not counted on the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u348	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Ladies and gentlemen, until the count is completed and the result is obtained, we are voting on the remaining articles in the bill. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u352	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u353	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u354	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u355	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u359	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u361	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u362	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u367	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u368	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u369	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u371	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u373	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u375	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u376	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u380	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u381	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u382	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u383	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u388	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u389	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u390	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u392	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u394	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u395	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u397	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u402	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u403	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u404	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u410	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u411	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u415	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u418	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u420	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u422	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u423	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u424	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u425	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u430	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u431	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u432	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u434	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u436	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u437	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u438	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u439	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u443	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u445	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u446	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u451	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u452	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u453	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u457	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u458	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u460	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u464	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u465	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u466	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u467	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u469	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u470	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u471	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u472	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u473	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u474	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u478	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u479	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u480	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u481	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u485	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u486	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u487	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u488	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 21 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u490	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u491	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u493	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u494	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u495	Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u500	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u502	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u505	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u507	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u508	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u509	Article 23 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u511	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u513	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u514	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u516	Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u518	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u521	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u523	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u525	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u528	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u529	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u530	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u532	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u537	Article 27 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u539	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u541	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u543	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u544	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u546	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u548	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u549	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u550	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u551	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u553	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u554	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u555	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u556	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u557	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u558	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u560	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u561	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u562	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u563	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u565	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u567	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u568	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u569	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u570	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u571	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u572	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u575	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u576	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u577	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u579	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u581	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u582	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u583	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u584	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u585	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u586	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u588	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u590	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u591	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u592	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u593	Article 35 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Rule 36 has been put in roll-call votes. Rule 37 has been put into roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u595	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u597	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u598	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u599	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u600	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u602	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u603	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u604	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u606	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u607	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 40 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u611	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u612	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u613	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u614	Article 40 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Rule 41 has been put in roll-call vote. Article 42 has been put into roll-call vote. Rule 43 has been put in roll-call vote. Rule 44 has been put in roll-call vote. Will Rule 45 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u618	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u619	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u620	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u621	Article 45 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 46 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u625	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u626	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u627	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u628	Article 46 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u632	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u633	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u635	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u637	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u638	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u639	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u640	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u641	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u642	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u646	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u647	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u648	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u649	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u653	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u654	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u655	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u656	Article 50 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u660	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u662	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u663	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u665	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u667	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u670	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u672	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u674	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u675	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u676	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u677	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u681	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u682	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u683	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u684	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u686	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u687	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u689	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u690	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u691	Article 55 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u695	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u696	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u697	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u698	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u702	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u703	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u704	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u705	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u709	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u710	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u711	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u712	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Can Article 59, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u716	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u717	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u718	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u719	Article 59 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 60 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u723	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u724	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u725	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u726	Article 60 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u730	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u731	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u732	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u733	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u737	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u738	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u739	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u740	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 63 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u743	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u744	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u745	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u746	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u747	Article 63 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u749	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u751	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u752	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u753	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u754	Article 64 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u756	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u758	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u759	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u760	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u761	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u763	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u764	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u765	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u766	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u767	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u768	Article 66 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u770	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u771	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u772	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u773	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u774	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u775	Article 67 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u776	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u777	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u778	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u779	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u780	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u781	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u782	Article 68 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u785	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u786	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u787	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u788	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u789	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u791	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u793	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u794	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u795	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u796	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u798	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u800	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u801	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u802	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u803	Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 72 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u807	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u808	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u809	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u810	Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u812	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u815	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u816	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u817	Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 74 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u818	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u819	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u822	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u823	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u824	Article 74 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 75 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u827	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u829	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u830	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u831	Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u832	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u833	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u835	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u836	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u837	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u838	Article 76 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 77 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u839	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u840	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u841	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u843	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u844	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u845	Article 77 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 78 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u846	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u849	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u850	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u851	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u852	Article 78 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 79 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u857	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u858	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u859	Article 79 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 80 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u863	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u864	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u865	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u866	Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u867	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u868	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u870	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u871	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u872	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u873	Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Rule 82 has been put in roll-call vote. Rule 83 has been put in roll-call vote. Rule 84 has been put in roll-call vote. Rule 85 has been put in roll-call vote. Article 86 has been put into roll-call vote. Rule 87 has been put in roll-call vote. Article 88 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 89 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 90 has been put into roll-call vote. Rule 91 has been put in roll-call vote. Article 92 has been put into roll-call vote. Rule 93 has been put into roll-call vote. Rule 94 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 95 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 96 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 97 has been put into roll-call vote. Rule 98 has been put into roll-call vote. Article 99 has been put into roll-call vote. Rule 100 has been put in roll-call vote. Rule 101 has been put in roll-call vote. Rule 102 has been put in roll-call vote. Rule 103 has been put in roll-call vote. Will Rule 104 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u874	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u875	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u876	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u877	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u878	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u879	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u880	Article 104 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 105 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u881	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u882	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u883	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u884	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u885	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u886	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u887	Article 105 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 106 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u889	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u890	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u891	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u892	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u893	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u894	Article 106 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 107 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u895	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u896	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u897	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u898	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u899	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u900	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u901	Article 107 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 108 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u903	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u905	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u906	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u907	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u908	Article 108 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 109 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u909	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u910	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u911	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u912	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u913	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u914	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u915	Article 109 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 110 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u917	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u918	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u919	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u920	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u921	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u922	Article 110 has therefore been accepted as majority. Can Rule 111, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u923	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u924	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u925	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u926	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u927	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u928	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u929	Article 111 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 112 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u930	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u931	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u932	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u933	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u934	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u935	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u936	Article 112 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Articles 113-119 have been renumbered to Articles 114-120 respectively. Can the House accept the new Article 114 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u937	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u938	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u939	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u940	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u941	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u942	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u943	The new Article 114 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Rule 115, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u944	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u945	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u946	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u947	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u948	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u949	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u950	The new Article 115 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept the new Article 116 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u951	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u952	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u953	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u954	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u955	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u956	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u957	The new Article 116 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree to the new Article 117, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u958	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u959	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u960	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u961	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u962	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u963	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u964	The new Article 117 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister by a majority vote. Does the House agree to the new Article 118, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u965	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u966	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u967	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u968	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u969	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u970	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u971	The new Article 118 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. The old Rule 118 and new Rule 119 were put in roll-call vote. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 14 and a special number 3 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u972	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u973	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u974	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u975	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u976	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u977	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u978	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 14 and a special 3 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as Article 113.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u979	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote in this House. Article 36 has adopted a total of 280 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Under Rule 37, a total of 280 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 41 has passed a total of 280 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, 126 Members voted against. Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Under Rule 42, a total of 280 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, 126 Members voted against. Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Under Rule 43, a total of 280 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, 126 Members voted against. Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 44 has adopted a total of 280 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, 126 Members voted against. Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Rule 82 passed a total of 280 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Rule 83 passed a total of 280 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 83 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 280 Members voted on Rule 84. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 84 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 85 passed a total of 280 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 85 was therefore accepted as majority. Under Rule 86, a total of 280 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 86 was therefore accepted as a majority. Under Rule 87, a total of 280 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 87 has therefore been accepted as majority. A total of 280 Members voted on Rule 88. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, 126 Members voted against. Article 88 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 280 Members voted on Article 89. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 89 has therefore been accepted as majority. A total of 280 Members voted on Article 90. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against this article, 126 Members voted against. Article 90 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 280 Members voted on Rule 91. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 91 was therefore accepted as a majority. Under Rule 92, a total of 280 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 92 was therefore accepted as a majority. Under Rule 93, a total of 280 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 93 was therefore accepted as a majority. Under Rule 94, a total of 280 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 94 was therefore accepted as a majority. Under Rule 95, a total of 280 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 95 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 280 Members voted on Article 96. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 96 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 280 Members voted on Rule 97. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 97 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 280 Members voted on Rule 98. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 98 was therefore accepted as a majority. Under Rule 99, a total of 280 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 99 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 280 Members voted on Article 100. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. Article 100 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 101 has passed a total of 280 Members. In the interests of the Rule, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. In other words, they voted 105 MPs against the article. Article 101 was therefore accepted as a majority. Under Rule 102, a total of 280 Members voted. In the interests of the Rule, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. In other words, they voted 105 MPs against the article. Article 102 was therefore accepted as a majority. Under Rule 103, a total of 280 Members voted. In the interests of the Rule, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. In other words, they voted 105 MPs against the article. Article 103 was therefore accepted as a majority. Rule 118 (new Rule 119) voted for a total of 280 Members. In the interests of the Rule, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. In other words, they voted 105 MPs against the article. Article 118 (new Article 119) was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u980	We are moving on to the vote of the President-in-Office of the Council. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u981	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u982	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u983	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u984	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u985	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u986	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u987	The late payment was made by a majority vote. The Bill of the Minister of State: ‘State State: Organisation, operation and transparency of the Government, Government Institutions and Central Public Administration’ was, therefore, accepted by a majority in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u988	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u989	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u990	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u991	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u992	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u993	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u994	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the bill of State Secretary: ‘State State: Organisation, operation and transparency of the Government, Government Institutions and Central Government’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u995	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u996	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-06-S1-commons.u997	With the consent of the House at no time 0: 59' the meeting for Wednesday, August 7, 2019, at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work, legislative work: only debate and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: "Consolidations of the Ministry of Interior, provisions on digital governance and other urgent issues", according to the supplementary agenda.
