ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] First of all, I would like to wish the holidays and the holidays for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the special agenda let me announce the following: Firstly, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 22 November 2019. COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE (Articles 129(2) and 3, 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 224/18/18-11-2019 topical question by the President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left, Alexiou Tsipras to the Prime Minister, on the subject: "The government's duty towards the perpetrators of economic crimes and corruption crimes". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 223/18-11-2019 topical question by the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement Mr. Fotinis (Photo) Genuines to the Prime Minister, on the subject: "Accession - immigration: Our islands and all Greek society emit SOS". Secondly, I would like to inform you that Mr Georgios Katrugalos seeks permission from abroad from 27-11-2019 to 29-11-2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as tomorrow's sitting is concerned, we have the so-called Prime Minister's time. Specifically, the question will be discussed under No 224/18/18-11-2019 of the President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group, Alexiou Tsipras, to the Prime Minister, on the subject: "The Government's attitude towards the perpetrators of economic crimes and corruption" and the question by No 223/17/18-11-2019 of the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr Fotinis (Photo) Genuines to the Prime Minister, on the subject: "African - immigration: Our islands and all Greek society emit SOS".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Parliamentary decisions: continuation of the debate on the revised provisions of the Constitution in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. At today's meeting, which corresponds to the 5th and 9th section of the Constitutional Review Committee, i.e.: imprisonment of MPs, persecution against members of the government, electoral system and election barriers, Articles 62, 86 paragraph will be discussed. 3, 86 (importation of an interpretative declaration), 54 para. 1,54 (Additional paragraph 4), 54 (importation of interpretation) and 56 (Additional para. 5) of the Constitution. Mr Constantine Javarras has the floor for 15 minutes, and I would ask the rapporteur-in-Office to open up the system of Members' registration. Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u4	First of all, Mr President, I would like to ask for your tolerance on my behalf, but also on behalf of the other rapporteurs, because today the issues that we are going to discuss are very important and numerous. I would therefore like to begin with the issues relating to Article 62 and Article 86. These two provisions fall within a framework which we could call 'the protection framework for representatives of the Greek people' on the one hand 'and the members of the government' on the other. And the question straightaway arises: is there really, in favour of these people, discrimination on the part of the legislator who can support this negativeism, which has occurred over the last ten years, which has taken the form of anti-parliamentism which is expressed in a variety of ways and which is condensed in a phrase, in the so-called'representative betrayal'? This is what, once in the beginning of the last century, was called for by intellectuals, by Zillin Benta in France, today comes through this climate of reviving the very long and negative debate that is taking place against parliamentaryism to concentrate literally and to be systematically cultivated with regard to the so-called privileges of MPs and ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, we must give answers. Is this a privileged treatment? Is this really what we are all saying that the legislator gives a margin of immunity without any reason for the Members and the Ministers? We need - and you will allow me to - a historic regression. And because the best way to refer to an issue is to start with one of the myths used. And because the myths have an attractive structure, they are much more visible, but they also create much better meanings when we are going to deal with a complex issue, I will refer to the myth that he uses in his dialog "Political" Plato and refers to the passage of people from Saturn to the age of Dios. There was, in fact, a time when Saturn's time, where people lived beyond the needs and had no concern for the service of their society's personal or collective purposes. He who dealt with the service and fulfillment of all needs was the greatest demon, it was the time of paradise. At some point, however, they were forced to pass into the kingdom of Zeus, to pass into the kingdom of need, and from there on, in what Plato says "in the ocean of the unequality of human relations" to be a rhythm, to enter a class. And then, the position of the greatest demon was taken by politics and the politician became the one who deals with the management of common affairs in such a way that what Plato said at the time was satisfied that "policy is the greatest gift given to people to solve the problems among themselves, without being slaughtered." So what we are saying today is a policy and what we mean when we talk about a political system is not something that we absolutely have to disintegrate, or we have to regard it as a permanent spot in society. It is indeed the only way to resolve common affairs. That is why, from a recommendation of political art as a medicine for healing and treating social needs within the city, it has since begun what we call "responsible" at the beginning of the supreme ruler as a form of protection of the one who takes the honour of dealing with the administration of the common things. Then, precisely, this irresponsibility did not endure, because at that time there were voices saying that people cannot be distinguished from those who govern and have no responsibility, and those who have all the responsibilities. That is why we passed to the time when in the context of the democracy of Klistheni there was the institution for the rulers who were originally called'responsible'. In general, of course, it is'responsibility' and because everything is paralyzed over the centuries,'responsible' has now become'responsible'. And for her, then, we will speak pre-introductoryly, which then and when we arrived in new times began to take the form of political or parliamentary responsibility. In this respect, there was united, and criminal and political responsibility was also in this sense in the era of the crown, the pre-democratic, in England, those who took over office were obliged to be accountable to the representative bodies. However, by reaching the younger ages, criminal liability was indeed specified. And in order to reach ourselves, the first great attempt to systemize this phenomenon, namely the criminal responsibility of the rulers, is the rhetoric of Ioannis Arabantinos in 1880, known as "Acts on the responsibility of the rulers and ministers". From there the dilemma is being raised for the first time: yes, the rulers have a responsibility, yes, they must be subject to the law, but care must be taken so that this is not the way the rulers are treated on the one hand in the exercise of their powers, on the other hand on the other hand on the other hand on the means of dispute and on the means of dissent on the part of those with whom they have political differences. The first, the so-called pre-revolutionary constitutions, were in Greece to have arrangements in line with the current rules of Article 86. And, of course, this was not by chance because, as was the case then in the fight for independence, this very notion of how it is served and how the ruler is being protected against the crimes or malicious actions or proceedings against them, we saw it being in the case of Petrobe Mavromichalis, the Brothers Metaxas, the practice now, the historical form of dealing with him that led to the first Civil War, because these Ministers were accused of beginning this whole story in exactly the same way that, in the context of the division, it is essentially pervading our entire history until now, we had the same model to dominate relations between Trikoupi and Deliyannis, in relations between Gounari and Venizelos, in relations - and later in the newest, in 1989 - of the so-called conflict between PASOK and the right and so-called right. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, what we need to have in mind is that it is necessary with coolness, with clear consciousness and especially a very tight heart - there is no need for sentiment here - to decide how the issue of the criminal responsibility of the ministers and the State Secretary and the Prime Minister himself, as well as of the President of the Republic, should be dealt with from the legal order in Greece. Is this really a special treatment introduced by Article 86? No, there is no special or privileged treatment, because the law does not discriminate in its application against cases of civil and non-political crimes. There is equality of criminal law and no one is privileged. Moreover, Article 86 itself states that no special or ministerial offences apply to Greece. That once existed. There's no today. Therefore, equal treatment is fully restored in relation to criminal law and the ministers and the State Secretarys and ordinary citizens. What's the matter with him? The issue remaining after the 2001 Review, which has indeed brought very important reforms to the institutional responsibility of the ministers and the State Secretarys, is the procedural right, namely the exercise of the criminal prosecution, which has been entrusted exclusively to the House. Because there has already been the abolition of interrogation and pre-reviews by Parliament, as it existed before 2001, and the occupation has been abolished and, if you like, the exercise of public prosecutors' duties in proceedings against Ministers and State Secretarys by members of the National Representation. These aren't today. On the other hand, where the matter is limited it is in Article 86(1). But one will say: 'But why should this distinction still exist?' The reasons are very simple. Firstly, precisely because this treatment is an institutional guarantee of protection of the Ministers and of the State Secretarys, not just because they have a distinct or privileged position within the social area, but because the seriousness of their responsibility in the exercise of governmental functions makes it necessary to protect them, because this is not how government work is blocked, nor is the ministers or the Deputy Prime Ministers themselves or the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister expose himself to this prerogative which can create unnecessary or inappropriate criminal persecutions. The House would say that the exercise of all the responsibilities stemming from the people, because it is the only body that exercises popular sovereignty, can even, on behalf of the people, exercise such powers. It can, of course, and it is reasonable to say that here we have no divergence from the system of separation of powers. Of course we have, but this is excellent and individual and is justified on the basis of the principle of necessity, because there is no other instrument necessary and suitable to deal with and cure this need. I now come to see what is today the specific amendment to Article 86(3), which is essentially a contribution from all parties. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the obstacle which, until now, did not allow the House to function in a way which had to be fair and which had the right to do so, because, where Parliament had to carry out its duties, there was the short deadline for extinguishing, which imposed a ban on fleeing after the expiry of the first parliamentary session, after the period during which the specific crime is being persecuted was committed. This is now being abolished and, as a result of this barbarity, it is in time for Parliament to be able to exercise its right to prosecute the so-called'ministerial' crimes. And that, of course, because, like the science of constitutional law and the theory, and politics, it has been accepted, if there was any obstacle, was, as I said, this short depreciation deadline and, unfortunately, the so-called'majority principle' must be clearly recognised. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need five more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u5	You've got it. Go ahead and I will be tolerant, because I believe that the rapporteurs should have greater comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u6	No, Mr President, because there is the other issue. It's a mistake, the modules are spread. The man still hasn't talked about the expatriates. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u7	You're letting me handle this? And if I fail, you'll fill me in. Mr. Javarra, I'll take the five minutes, but it doesn't mean it's closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Here, therefore, given the very active presence that Mr Loverdos has in this whole review process, I also have to pay tribute to the scientific contribution he has made in preparing this issue with the homonymous scientific work that he has prepared and which is an aid for those who really want to bend on this problem. So what is of value is to say frankly that the majority principle many times, not to say in all cases, has created protection against those who were persecuted and who may have committed offences, which have suffered the disappearance that I said previously because of the deflection period. Because there often happens to be a successive government based on the same majority in two parliamentary periods and, of course, the criminal is being eradicated for that reason. So today - and we must pay particular attention to this, ladies and gentlemen - when the extinguishing deadline is abolished, the time limit within which the House can exercise the right to prosecute is five years for the crimes and the fifteen or twenty years for the felony. You realise that the electoral cycles that will be going through such a long time will not be unpunished, due to the alteration of the parties in the power of democracy, the slightest ministerial crime. Of course, here we should be aware and conscious of what Andreas Loverdes also says, that there is no pure criminal liability on the ministers, in the sense that it is impossible to preserve from political action any alleged, alleged criminal liability of the Minister, State Secretary or Prime Minister. That's what history teaches. That is why we must be very careful and go to the provisions governing the procedures with piety, commitment and, in particular, a close interpretation, commitment to the letter, because, as I said yesterday, we will benefit from it, whether we can and understand that any provision of law is the necessary relationships resulting from the peculiarity of things, from the very nature and nature of the things that are historical, which are political, which are party. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to conclude this, I think - and I was saying this yesterday - that I am pleased that colleagues such as Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and Mr Dritsa have agreed - that we have an obligation in these lame times, which is the policy that is indiscriminate in the sense I have mentioned, to protect the parties and to be able to discuss with the citizens, in an information which must be kept informed that there is no democracy without parties. If we think about history, we will see that the first action Mussolini did when he took over the prime minister, when he convinced the king to assign the prime minister, was to abolish the opposition. The same thing happened with Nazism, it has been done with all the totalitarian regimes. What is, above all, a totalitarian power is the abolition of the parties, and this must be defended instead of all honour, even though it is considered that this is how we bless our beards, as it is said to be. No, we are defending democracy, because democracy is the creative mediation that arises between the relationship between civil participation in the parties and then the party representation in political society. Now, we must not leave the effort made by SYRIZA and the former Prime Minister and now Chief of Staff Responsibility to add to Article 86 an interpretative statement. This interpretative statement wants to limit the scope of bribery, passive bribery, which is provided for by Article 235(1) only, as it is said, in cases where we have committed on the occasion of the exercise of tasks rather than in the performance of tasks. I will give you opinions which have been expressed and from which I believe we should all learn to reach agreement in the end on this matter. Because I do not think it is a privileged field of confrontation between democratic parties or between politicians who have democratic perceptions to say when we are in the opposition 'those thieves' and when we come to the government say 'these are make news'. We must therefore allow the floor to illuminate all aspects of the problem. I shall therefore begin with the following arguments: ladies and gentlemen, firstly, the provision of Article 86 now contains only one procedural provision after the 2001 reform. It does not contain and it would not be possible for the constitutional legislature to make provision for criminal offences and crimes in the sense that this statement wants to do so. And I'm getting even clearer. In a provision which lays down exceptional competence of the House, not for the administration of effective justice, but only for the exercise of criminal prosecution, it is absurd, it is paradoxical, it shows a strange precursor which is a retreat to the anti-democratic and anti-political voices of wanting, in essence, to demarcate the criminal offences provided for by the criminal legislator. Second argument: Article 235 is a provision of criminal law and on that provision the first and last ground, in accordance with the Constitution, has him the joint legislator of the Criminal Code. Thirdly, if we take a look at the provision of Article 235, we will see that this official is on the bribe - first condition, the perpetrator must be an official - who receives unfair gifts for energy or omission in relation to the performance of his duties. Ladies and gentlemen, the provision itself puts us in mind here that there can be no other provision, not only in the Criminal Code, since it has not been amended until now, but also in the Constitution, which considers it to be a bribery, that it is a passive bribery other than a criminal offence when the perpetrator receives gifts for energy or omission related to his duties. And here the case law is clear. First, there is the decision 1/2011 of the Article 86 Judicial Council, where there is the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, Mr. Black, has justified with a very correct and solid judicial reasoning that passive bribery is necessarily concluded with the duties of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u9	Make sure you close it, Mr. Javarra. I've given a lot more time than the one you asked for.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u10	I shall conclude, Mr President. You're right. I'm sorry. I'm finishing my thoughts by saying two things. So there is only one issue here. And there are other decisions. There is also the German science, which Mr Lappas is following it, and the German case law, where everyone accepts that passive bribery is a crime which, in its legal form, in its description by law, presupposes that the perpetrator must have energy or omission to manifest it in the performance of his duties. Because if it does not manifest it in the performance of its duties, then it is not bribery. Then this act is criminally indifferent. And the question I am addressing you and Mr Tsipras is this: What do you want? Do you want to create an interpretative statement by which you will be speaking of self-evidently and, in any case, will you tell us that the offences of criminal corruption committed in the course of the ministerial service are not criminal offences? Is that what you want? I think you don't want this. On the contrary, what you are fighting for is that there should not be a case of crimes of serious and felony leading to impunity because of alpha or beta wording of the law. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are not here, ladies and gentlemen, the case in which you must fight, and most of all, that the discrimination - Mr Lappas knows - of the offences is between officials, that is to say those who are engaged in the service of an official and non-service staff. In non-service crimes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u11	Finish, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u12	... there could be an interpretative statement that would say: "If this is the case and this element of fact, perhaps, we should investigate and not anyone else to accept indiscriminately if there is a case of corruption or any other criminal offence." Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by saying this: the most dangerous thing is interpretative statements. It is a dangerous thing because human rights are at risk of being strangled. And because I know that I am addressing rightful, fanatical ideologists and because I know that you are all leaning on the case-law of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg is a pretext that you will not insist on this interpretative statement for these two reasons: firstly, because a constitutional legislator who is forced to express himself with interpretative statements admits his failure to express himself clearly and thus confess to the collapse of the jurisprudence which he must serve.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u13	Finish, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u14	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u15	I'm ending it has been said many times. I have to do my job, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u16	Finally, please take a look at a very interesting note by two very important teachers - which I shall present - whom I have consulted and urge you to consult. He is the professor of the Criminal Law of the University of Athens, Mr. Mylonopoulos, and the Professor of Constitutional Law, Mr. Spyropoulos. It is so systematic that I think that if Mr Tsipras had the opportunity and comfort to take a look, he would come here and probably look for some other ways. Because we are all on the same side of the hill, ladies and gentlemen, against corruption. Corruption is not the content of political ideology to distinguish between clean policies and dirty policies. In all the parties there are honest politicians. What proves if anyone does not honor his oath is an individual case is an exception, and that is precisely the individual case we should lead it to the competent judicial authority. My colleagues will refer to all other issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u18	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, without any personal responsibility from you, obviously, but with the responsibility of all of us - and from me - we accepted the division of modules in this way. Today, our first colleague, the next and all of us will have to refer to Rule 86, Rule 62, to the so-called parliamentary privileges, but also to the vote of those who are outside Greece. The first rapporteur, twenty-four minutes, did not make it. There's a problem of time for today, and tomorrow...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u20	We shouldn't have put it all today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u21	That's right. Tomorrow we have two articles on which the debate will be very limited and the provisions that have been repealed. So since you cannot change the decision of the Conference, give more time to the general and specific suggestions. The first general rapporteur did not have time to speak about the vote of those who were outside Greece. What's gonna happen? Are we gonna get the same?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Loverdo, I heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u23	You've made an observation to him, so you're gonna make it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u24	I have heard you and call on the SYRIZA Secretary-General Georgios Karugalos in Step. There will be for everyone, to cover you, the same treatment. The initial time will come in, and then I'll add what I added. But I would ask you to make it easier for the Bureau, so that Members of Parliament can also speak, and we do not know how much the figure will be. He's already too big.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I would like to say something on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Javarra, I've called the speaker in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u27	I think it allows me to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u28	I would be happy to allow you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u29	I should like to turn to the Chamber and to all my dear colleagues. I see many times that there is an intolerability, so to speak. There are many colleagues who are concerned that the general and special rapporteurs are speaking more or sometimes taking a lot of time. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, in this very big case - and I do not want to underestimate anyone's contribution - there are some people here who have the role of explaining to the Chamber topics which I accept and you recognise that many of you did not have the opportunity or have the comfort of seeing them more deeply. That's the suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Javarra, that's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u31	Why are you telling us this? What did you find out?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u32	Mr Javarra, what you referred to is not a procedure. It's a suggestion. It is not a point of order, so, Mr Catrugale, sometimes do not give the floor. The President shall give him the floor. Now take the floor you and deal with your suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin with an extension - unorthodoxly, but necessary - my position. What we are talking about in this Chamber is not just about us. What we are talking about in this Chamber obviously is not just constitutionalists. The Constitution's community of lawmakers belongs to all citizens every time they apply their right, claim something from the state or check whether a state competence is correctly exercised. Unfortunately, the media coverage of the Constitutional Review replicates many make news. The real picture of the Chamber is not reproduced. We, however, have a duty of truth and must not reproduce themselves make news. What I am going to talk about came from the last one I would expect from in this Chamber, precisely because I had and have a deep appreciation for its honesty and training. I am referring to the general rapporteur for the majority. With his current article in the "NEA" entitled "The unbearable constitutional lightness of SYRIZA" he says: "It was found yesterday in the procedure that SYRIZA omitted in the previous House from beastly carelessness - beware of: beastly carelessness - to propose and include in the revised provisions the provision of Article 30(1), which stipulates that the President of the Republic is elected by parliament." This is a classic take news case, with no intent. I should like to refer to the fact that I do not have any intention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u34	Why would you explain?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u35	Because a similar proposal was tabled. It was not voted in favour. He raised the votes forty-eight Members, and that is why he did not go through the review.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u36	On SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u37	Even though SYRIZA had the majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u38	I'm sorry, don't insist. I wanted now to explain to you that you did not do so intentionally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u39	We didn't do it intentionally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u40	Good. Don't listen to the voice that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u41	Don't interrupt, as Mr. Javarras has not been interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u42	I repeat that I recognise - and I said it earlier - my interlocutor honesty and honesty and mistakes can be made by anyone. However, this is just the mistake, precisely because it speaks of 'fellowship' of ours, precisely because it speaks of 'hostly carelessness', so that the colleague can be cured, publicly revoked and revoked now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u43	I'll answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u44	So let's go on now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u45	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u46	But what do you say, Mr. Comrade? Isn't it wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u47	We're gonna have a dialogue now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u48	I'm sorry, it's not a question of dialogue, though. It's a question of honesty to ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u49	Hot request: Nobody interrupt! I'm so sorry! You don't make it easy for me that way. You may all have disagreements, and the others had one, and we all have one. The rapporteur has the right to express his opinion. When everyone goes up to the Step, let each confront them on the proposed ones. No interruptions, please! Go on, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u50	Listen, ladies and gentlemen, one last point to go to the essence of my position today. Everyone has a right to their opinion. Not everyone has the right to a personal version of the facts. It says Hannah Arndt - and it is quite right - that if the basis of the facts is disputed, there can be no freedom of opinion because it is placed on a different basis. So here it is clear that SYRIZA had submitted to his Review Proposal and the proposal to amend Article 30(1). This proposal did not go to the second stage of the Review because it was not voted for by the necessary number of Members, and that is why many of you in your speeches yesterday made various scenarios for who they voted and why they did not vote. To close this chapter, although this proposal for Article 30 has not been voted on, the basic proposal of the SYRIZA for an alternative election, if the people fails, for the simple reason that this special provision is specific to the general rule that remains. But let us now go to the issue that concerns us. I shall start by saying that this is primarily a matter of direct political interest and, more generally, a question of the quality of political life and the credibility of the political world and precisely of the distrust which the voters often have with regard to political order. It's not a theoretical matter. It is not a question of constitutionalists or criminalists. From what we are going to decide today, for example, whether the 'NOVARTIS' scandal is to be covered, if it is not to be clarified in its essence, but as a result of limitations, cases relating to it may be filed. The general rapporteur for the majority was right to refer to the need through Article 86 to regulate two conflicting constitutional principles first. One is the principle of equality. The second is a peculiar institutional guarantee designed to protect the Minister when he legally carries out his duties. So I will start from what the Communist Party of Greece is counting on us. Why do we not abolish Article 86 as a whole? The answer is simple. In all the constitutions of Europe there is a distinction between those acts that are closely linked to the exercise of the minister's function. In French, for example, the theory speaks of actes rattachables, acts that are linked and activities that are not linked to its responsibilities. For them, therefore, the acts associated with the exercise of the minister's authority and to protect him from the pressure, which can often reach the limits of the blackmailing pressure of organized interests to guide him as to how to act or prevent him from exercising his powers, is usually a filter between the charge and the referral and the criminal court. What actions is this about? Above all, it must not be possible for the Minister to give his signature in such a way as not to blame him, without taking into account all the facts of the House, and to determine whether there is indeed a case of violation on the part of the Minister, or whether the motive for the appeal is another, blackmail or avengement to be checked by the Minister. That is why the institutional guarantee only works where this association of the minister's powers with the crime. What are clear acts outside the scope of Article 86? First of all, what goes on in the field of the private life of the Minister, if he embezzles with money from his sister or if he or she or she has made a gesture against his secretary, even his secretary at the Ministry. Obviously these do not fall within the scope of Article 86. But let us look at another case now, because, with examples only between non-legislative ones, there can be a clear difference. Let's take the case of bribery. There is a need, indeed, for there to be a potion to justice to consider whether an act was an infringement of duty. But why should a minister take it from the House before the case arrives in court? Can passive bribery, bribery and the Minister's duties be linked in any way? Are there some cases, in other words, where the Minister can take them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u51	Infidelity exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u52	Infidelity really...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Flouris, you know that giving your name is not good. Do not interrupt. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u54	It's sensitive from the time he was a legal counselor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u55	Did you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u56	I heard that, yeah. Mr. Catrugale, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u57	I'm going on, Mr. President. Thank you. The criterion, therefore, to see what falls within the scope of Article 86 is not Article 235 of the Criminal Code. It is self-evident in terms of the objective nature of the crime in terms of Criminal Law that only an employee commits the offence of passive bribery. It's no different. However, this is not the case. It is a question of whether the institutional guarantee, which I have explained, also relates to the offence of corruption. I want to see which of you will seriously come to this Step and tell us: 'Yes, in the Minister's job description it is and take it.' We must therefore give a clear answer that there is no similar rule, there is no such rule at the outset. I therefore claim that it is not new meaning that we now give Article 86. In Article 86 the minister who would embezzle his sister's money or make a mock against his wife or secretary was never involved. It has never been possible and these cases have no reason to relate to the institutional guarantee that I have mentioned. What do we do now? Not to create a rule of substantive law for the first time, because we could never give retroactive power to this. Take note, ladies and gentlemen, of the JRC, if we were to abolish Article 86 simply, what we would have done would also apply to the future. For the past, this action would have no impact. So what do we want? We want to change Article 86 for the future for all offences. We do not forget that in the 2001 Review it was added the unacceptable provision for the short depreciation deadline in the Constitution. Until then he was at the law level. We are therefore covering the future - because for the offences covered by the institutional guarantee we cannot do otherwise, only for the future can we deal with them - and we are establishing a level playing field for the ministers as regards the limitation of their offences. And what are we going to do with the interpretative statement? To clarify clearly and not creatively - we do not introduce a new rule - that the true concept of Article 86 since it was established is that it does not cover offences such as the offence of bribery, passive bribery, as well as any other offence that is not closely linked to the exercise of the Minister's function and the need to protect it from the relevant institutional guarantee. This is obviously not a banned retroactiveness of an unfavourable criminal rule, in accordance with Article 7. On the other hand, it falls under Article 77 of the Constitution, which expressly states that the original interpretative provisions, those which give the precise meaning of an existing rule, always have retroactive effect. Therefore, there is no legal or constitutional fig sheet, ladies and gentlemen. You cannot hide behind legal arguments to tell the citizens 'no, the cases will be overshadowed'. The Greek people are watching us. We and ourselves are opening this prospect for all the offences that may have happened in our first government to be controlled, because we know that we have clean hands and clear conscience. That is why it is a matter of honour for the political world that we will take a position in the interpretative declaration, more than Article 86, because, badly lies, ladies and gentlemen, our intervention in paragraph 3 is about the future, and it is about what is going to happen. Our intervention in the interpretative declaration concerns what has been done and should not be covered. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you should not give anyone the golden parachute of the limitation to be acquitted to the "NOVARTIS" scandal, not because he didn't put the finger on honey, but because you will interpret in a way that you in no way would want to protect the jury, thieves and bribes. That is our intervention and Article 62. We want it to be protected from parliamentary immunity only anything linked to the parliamentary function of the MP - we agreed with the Communist Party of Greece - both inside and outside Parliament. A Member of Parliament from police can not be prevented from exercising his political duty, even when he goes, for example, to ASAOE or when faced with police officers. To close this chapter of criminal responsibility, Greece has something to do with what I said, with the need to restore the credibility and honor of the political world. If you look at it more widely, and here we are faced with an underlying trend, the conflict between those who want to regulate the economy in terms of politics and those who want freedom of the market to be the overriding rule, that is to say, that it operates at its natural pace and impose its rules on politics. Because in a sense, corruption of policies reflects the overly positive projection of the morality of the market, in which everything can be purchased or sold. Those who have seen the Swiss documentary about "NOVARTIS", you have seen that the money for the "Museums" is going and coming and the company wants to claim that they don't know where they're going. It has the money to pursue its aims, precisely because it considers that corruption is also a market game. We at least have to leave her out of the political world. As far as the electoral system is concerned, the electoral system, ladies and gentlemen, is not neutral political, it does not just reflect what exists independently and before the election process, on the contrary it reconciles the result and the political system. See, for example, in the United Kingdom, in the European elections where a simple analogue is applied, it is quite different that the seats are allocated and that the parties have the strength of the "Westminster" of the single- chaired region, which does not actually allow new parties, even if they have 20%, to be represented. The simple analogue is the system that is not only the most democratic, the one in which the will of the people has the most loyal reflection in the composition of the House, in the people's delegation, but is also the only system that can express the fragmentation of society in the so-called'modern transport society', favouring not the parties - cartel that under an artificial umbrella are conducive to completely different views - bad lies - as your party has become, in the New Democracy, but also gives the possibility of composing concepts transparently. Just because, as I mentioned in my speech in the previous section, our proposals have a systematic logic, we are not confined solely to our proposal to change the electorate, nor to address corruption alone. We also want to deal with the phenomenon of policy-making. That is why we have tabled our proposals for an institutional counterweight to direct democracy, but we also have the proposal that there should be a term of office for Members. It is a debate that is modern, including, for example, in the proposals for revision that are currently being discussed in France at the initiative of President McCronn and which wants to do the political function again and not the profession. At the same wavelength, on the basis of two criteria, the democratic principle and European experience, we have come to propose the constitutional improvement of Article 54, with the addition of paragraph 4, to facilitate the vote. We have referred to the European experience and representation system chosen by those countries that have a significant dispersion - such as ours - and which consists of representing those who are disbursed through their own representatives so that they are not only the right to vote but also the right to stand for election. You would remember that Trikoupis was a London MP. That is why we still consider the proposal we have put forward for the creation of electoral districts abroad, for the single-learning vote - not to favour party spectacle phenomena where our own relatives are asking for unity - and for their ability to elect their representatives. We have agreed to discuss on the basis of the proposal by the Communist Party of Greece that the New Democracy has set as a reference, but we have set certain conditions and we expect the wording of Article 54(4) and of the governmental party to determine our final position. But know that there is a red line, a coherent not separating line, which generally characterizes our logic. And who's that? To serve democracy in the best way, to enable the people to express themselves in the most loyal way and, above all, to restore the credibility of policy where the political system must be, so that the political system can function. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am presenting the report to which I referred in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u59	Not even for a minute, Mr. Stylianides. No minute! I'm not giving the floor! If it's only a point of order, otherwise for nothing else!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, it is essential and so far we have discussed very well. I don't think we should...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u61	Yeah, but you're giving me a break. What exactly do you want to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u62	I will ask Mr Katrugalo a question, because we will not have the opportunity to discuss it any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u63	Here, ask the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u64	You are presenting Rule 30 as a procedural document, whereas Article 30 has been voted against in the Proposing House by five Members of the SYRIZA, Mr. Friend, Mrs. Kasimatis, Mr. Kotzias, Mrs. Vaki, Mr. Kontonis. Mr. Friend and Mrs. Cassimatis are still Members of Parliament, and neither Rule 32 nor Rule 30 has been passed by a conscious act. So SYRIZA or rather those Members of Parliament must answer why they did not vote for Rule 30 because we have an opposition here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u65	That you could say in your place. Mr. Catrugale, you can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u66	Mr. President, excuse me! I'm not going to answer the staff caused by Mr. Katrugalos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u67	Do you have a personal issue?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u68	Of course! I don't have one?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u69	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u70	He gave me three minutes in his speech to denounce me that - at least not in bad intentions - I have defied SYRIZA's arguments yesterday on the issue of the election of the President of the Republic with an article today in the 'News'. Shouldn't I give an explanation? Is it to be misled - in any case - in this Chamber and outside this Chamber that Mr Javaras is a bad intent to slander SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Javarra, I didn't diagnose a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u72	Didn't you diagnosed a personal subject? How much more staff does it have to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u73	All right, you got two minutes on your personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u74	I did. I will simply take a position and say this: Mr Colleague, you know very well that so far I have not used any unfair means of political controversy. So what I meant in my current specific statement in the 'NEA' is that SYRIZA cannot insist on direct recourse to the people for - in the final analysis - an indication of the President of the Republic, when it had the majority to support the provision that defines the way in which the President of the Republic arises and which, while he had, as you rightly said quite rightly, been proposed, voted against by the Proposed House and therefore there is no other way of electing the President of the Republic today. This is the framework on which we need to discuss, the election of the President of the Republic through the House and only through the House. So when I say that it was careless of you, I mean that while you had the majority required to get the provision of Rule 30(1), a majority of one hundred seats, you obviously did not do so and in this sense the House voted against any other way of showing the President of the Republic than the one that is elected by Parliament. That's just how it is!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Catrugale, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u76	Yeah, if Mr. Kamines wants to get ahead of me, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Kamine, where are you guys involved? Explain why you want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u78	As a parliamentary representative, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u79	As a parliamentary representative at the moment you cannot. The rapporteurs and the special speakers will be finished, and then you will be given the floor. However, as a matter has been raised - which, in my view, has been badly raised - Mr Katrugale, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u80	First of all, I have neither convicted you from my position nor now I have accused you of a bad intention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u82	But I said it in quote. You are insisting, however, because you may not have the text before you, something you should not insist on. I read: 'As was noted yesterday - which is why not an opinion - SYRIZA has omitted in the previous House from brutal carelessness to propose and include in the revised provisions the provision of Article 30.'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u83	Through the nominated parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u84	‘To propose and include’. How is it possible if we had not proposed it and had not included it, that this provision should be passed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u85	But, Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u86	Okay...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Javarra, don't have a dialogue now. We won't solve the question of what the paper wrote and what the article said. Mr. Catrugale, complete and facilitate me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u88	I don't want to go on with this. I think it's clear. But I have one comment. Indeed, it's a surprise day for me too. Is it possible for the President of the Review Committee to apologise for their opinion or for their vote in a constitutional procedure because they did not vote for their party's proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u89	Explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u90	Has there ever been any question of party discipline, ladies and gentlemen, in the Review of Members? What are you talking about? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What huge regression is this in your party? In both areas of rights, democracy and openness. So much do you forget that you're a democratic party, too? Mercy, ladies!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u91	Slide with windmills, ladies and gentlemen. I asked the voters to come and explain to us. I didn't ask to apologize. Clearly they are their right, but unfortunately by a majority you have become a minority in the vote on Rule 30, and at the moment you are trying to trap Parliament in a process which is deadlocked.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirteen students and students and four educational sessions from the High School of Mesagrou Aegina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I should just like to say that at the moment you are following a procedure in Parliament for the revision of the Constitution, the supreme state law, which is about every ten years. The reason is the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the unity of the provisions we are discussing today can be likened to a mirror of our political system. In this mirror it is a fearful set of parties, which care in the face of the political costs and demagogues of those who are trying to increase it does not allow them - at least in most parties - to discuss frankly the issues contained in Articles 54 and 86 of the Constitution. It is fearful in the face of the enlargement of the electorate with the integration into it of our fellow citizens living outside Greece, fear in the face of a sincere and deep debate on Article 86 of the Constitution and demagogy on Article 62 on parliamentary immunity. But only fear is mirrored in the mirror that I mentioned above? Not only fear, but also hypocrisy. Others are said in the halls of the Parliament and others from the Step of the House. I will prove my allegations with the arguments I shall make on the articles under review that we are discussing today. I'm setting out the proposals of the Change Movement, starting with Article 62. The Member's impunity is an institutional guarantee of his political function and independence, and is specified in Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, as it applies after two amendments have been made in a very correct manner. Note the dates: in 2003 and 2010 on Apostle Kaklamani and Philip Petsalnikos, i.e. PASOK. These changes include the obvious vote on motions for waivers of immunity. The Constitution is well-known what it defines. However, the inflationary administration of the impunity from the House previously led to a direct attack on the principle of equality against the law. However, with the speeches mentioned above, Parliament's violations have been reduced and few are the exceptions, one of which has also led to the condemnation of Greece by the Court of Human Rights. One, until we arrived in the period 2015-2019, we had many violations of Article 62. In these cases over the last five years, the previous majority of SYRIZA and ANEL have proposed the ministerial status to prevent a Member from waiving immunity. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In other words, when, for a Member or Minister who has caused an accident, for example, with his car - I am not saying any more to avoid taking pictures of colleagues sitting here in the chairs - when one - Member and Minister - committed an offence of common criminal law and brought to Parliament the request for the waiver of his immunity by the 'build' Friday you voted that immunity cannot be waived because the Article 86 procedure had to be initiated on the responsibility of the Ministers. That's what you said. That's what you voted on. All of you. An exception has not been recorded in this violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House. I therefore call for a lot of courage and hypocrisy - and I do not want to say who I am addressing, but rather for someone - to declare themselves - and for others - the fighters of Article 86 and the defenders of the rule of law. I think, therefore, that I am right to speak of a mirror where some are mirrored as fearful hypocrites and I feel honored that I have set a strong example of equality between Greek citizens by denying before the law any privilege that arises from the parliamentary capacity I have or the ministerial status I have. For both the first and second indents of the five-year SYRIZA, it is not the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, nor the whole Parliament's Rules of Procedure. It is the attitude of the majority of the House in that case that Greece was condemned to the Court of Human Rights and in many cases that SYRIZANELs exploited the unconstitutional shape of a Member of Parliament - Minister, which I mentioned above. What do we have to do? SYRIZA says to add the word "directly", that is to say "directly through the exercise of his duties". The New Democracy at first said to add the word 'only'. It seems, however, that it extends its proposal. We will have the opportunity until Monday's vote to see it recorded and in the table of proposals from this party on the Review to make our position dependent. But we have made a proposal that reverses the logic of Article 62 today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u94	Presumption.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u95	That's right, Mr. Lappa. Many of you in the Committee on Review found it interesting and I want to see what you are going to vote on. You have the right to modify your proposal in our direction even today with the positions you will then make. We say: All Members of Parliament for the offences they commit or are accused of committed and not in the circle of their parliamentary duties must be brought to the public judge, their natural judge, and if they consider that they are prosecuted on political grounds, they must ask the House not to waive their immunity. I mean, we should go backwards. That is our proposal and I think it is very radical and correct.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u96	Reversal of the presumption.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u97	Reversal the presumption, that's right. Let's go to Article 86 now. We must move seriously and consciously here that we are politicians of a country that has a constantly polarised political system, with division and conflict, with no limits and constant attempts to eliminate opponents. Just to think that fifteen Prime Ministers have been accused of their opponents - I advise the reading of the book of Judge Nikos Soiledakis - among them Alexander Koumoundouros, Charilaos Trikoupis, Eleftherios Venizelos, Dimitrios Gounaris, Konstantinos Karamanlis, Andreas Papandreou, Kostas Mitsotakis, Panagiotis Pikrammenos, Antonis Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u98	Pericles, Democrat, Miltiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u99	You misleaded back. One not centrally democratic political issue, lasting polarization has made it a big one. Mr. Catrugale, if anyone could hear you today, just to figure out exactly what I mean. I repeat the phrase if you have not noticed me. One not centrally democratic political issue, lasting polarization has made it huge, and so we have to deal with it as a huge one. Suffice it to note, ladies and gentlemen, that I have heard someone mention it in the past few days - that the first civil war in the years of the Revolution had as one of its main causes the persecution of three ministers. Since 1822, special arrangements for the responsibility of ministers have been in force - that is, from the revolutionary constitutions. All these constitutional arrangements for two centuries and until 1997 - I think it was Mr Kouvelakis at the time - were concerned with the specific ministerial offences, which were separate from the other criminal offences of the rest of the citizens and were codified as a trademark ministerial in the Decree-Law 802/1971 on Junta. Municipality and criminal responsibility of the ministers are marching together as a political couple for two centuries and this political couple creates a tendency for the executive to try to influence or manipulate justice, pointed out the late Professor Ioannis Manoledakis in the foreword that I had the honour of doing in my book "The criminal responsibility of the members of the government and the State Secretarys in the Parliamentary City" Publications Sakkoula, 1995. Thank you, Mr. Javarra, for the report. The institution, therefore, of the criminal liability of the ministers, the Prime Ministers, the President of the Republic, in accordance with Article 49 of the Constitution, has been introduced since the beginning of the 19th century and, of course, has been introduced from the womb of our constitution which is the English city. But what are his basic traits over the years? First, that the offences were peculiar, that is, ministerial. One minister and only he could commit them, secondly, there was and there was a special political prosecution procedure and thirdly, the court or tribunal. If we read the Arabic, N.N. Saripolo, Sunday, Skouritsa for the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century, we will be better trained to be able to know what we are talking about. I am thinking here of the party rapporteur who has streamlined this institution until we have come to the current Review, as he did - and I mentioned it - and for Article 62, removing it quite a few of its political features and serving the principle of equality between citizens with regard to the law. With Law 2509/1997, as I said, the specific ministerial offences of law 802/1971 have been abolished and this is a very serious defence of the principle of equality. The revision of the Constitution of 2001 extended Parliament's amortisation period by one session, namely by one or two and in total, four years, i.e., depending on when a parliamentary session is dismantled, so that the next one can begin. Thirdly, we have predicted further legalisation of the institution with the Constitution, but also with Law No3126/2003-Petsalnikos - but also with Law No 3961/2011 the limitation - not the amortisation deadline - of all citizens. Here's the Minister who did this, Harry Castanides. But what do we have to do today? That's what we did. We did it. PASOK did this. But what should we do today with the Revision of the Constitution? There is agreement between the three largest parties, SYRIZA, New Democracy and Change Movement, to delete the depreciating deadline of the House, namely to remove, we agree, the last paragraph of Rule 86, and to eliminate the two sessions' amortization deadline, which may extend, as I have said before, in four years or be two years. So we found a solution to the major. We can review Article 86. This proposal received two hundred and fifty-five votes in the previous parliament, and we need to take advantage of this debate so that, at the end of the evening, we have agreed on three principles, even most of them. First and most important principle - which one needs to be aware of - is that the institution of the criminal liability of the ministers contains over-crowding elements of political content by definition, no matter what you say. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u100	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u101	Let's agree on that. Suffice it to say that the threefold distinction of the responsibility of the ministers in political, civil and criminal matters is the result of the birth of the democratic principle and of the parliamentary authority. Because in the presidential states responsibility is twofold: urban on the one hand, political and criminal at the other. And I'm talking about impeachment. You people from Mera25 notice and watch a little, because I hear your leader, the developments in the United States now we are talking about. Before the birth of democracy, however, the responsibility of the ministers, ladies and gentlemen, was united. Ministers were convicted of death, exile, of their property, for example for the loss of a war, for the inappropriate organization of the country's defence, for poor economic policy, namely purely political errors, were imposed on them by classical penalties, such as death, imprisonment, confiscation of property. This is a first point that your Change Movement proposes to create a common basis, common principles. Second beginning. As all the largest parties accept, it is right that the criminal liability of the ministers should not be fully assimilated to that of the citizens in terms of Parliament's own institution and intervention. A simple reference to what I said about continuing to prosecute political opponents in Greece, but also the existence of specific procedures in many countries, such as the United States, the United Kingdom and France, is very, very comfortable in my view. Third beginning. Since all three proposals of the SYRIZA, the New Democracy, the Change Movement still have the power of Parliament to decide on the initiation of the relevant procedure, I must stress that the House must have a secure basis of evidence, as I was writing in my 1995 book. That is why we have also proposed the revision of Article 86(2), which you refused from the SYRIZA. Instead of'minimum', once the depreciation deadline has been abolished, we have to put an assessment. Therefore, instead of the "multiple", a council of State-owned Areo-Frontians and Counsellors will examine the case before sending it to the parliament. In these three principles, we must build on what we say about the change of Article 86. Finally, SYRIZA adds the report that the case of the passive bribery of a minister must be dealt with as a common criminal offence. But here I would like to record the mistakes, theoretically and politically, contained in this proposal. And because Mr Katrugalos has insisted very much on his political arguments, I raise the glove a second time and I will return his arguments to him as long as I can in the short time that I still have. I will dwell on the main points of the error you are making. Firstly, you must admit that it is unconstitutional the way you set up the ten polls against ten political opponents. You want to change Article 86 because you did wrong and in an anti-constitutional way you did what you did a year ago. Secondly, through this error you are trying to retroactively justify your confession today, that you were out of constitutional scope in 2018. Thirdly, you indicate to justice that it is for my case and for other cases that it is ready to examine its competence. I didn't ask for that from justice. When on my own proposal my immunity came in April 2019, I did not raise a matter of lack of competence before the prosecutors for the matter to go to the Council or now I am not suggesting it. With what you are now saying and as you personalize, you tell them to look into this matter, because they are not unsolved in constitutional terms and they must resolve it, that is to say, to examine whether they are competent. Fourthly, with this mistake you are making, you are attempting to violate Article 7(1) of the Constitution, which prohibits the retroactiveness of criminal law and as you well know - and I hope one does not have the courage to say something contrary to it - the limitation is a rule of the substantive criminal law. Find me one in the room who will say otherwise. Fifthly, your hypocrisy is also demonstrated, because you know that in the past, and yours, it is not covered by the interpretative statement you are proposing, it is not covered by the interpretative statement you add to Article 86 and you are trying to justify your political project with what you have said. And I wonder why, today, you have developed it and said it in committee. I can't believe you're saying that. You say, and with a single phrase: is it within the duties of a minister to get them? No, Mr. Catrugale, it's not. But does it also belong to the Secretary of State's duties to harm the country? Is it within the duty of the minister to harm the country's national security? Is that why you made him a Minister to bring about this damage? And I have other crimes that make fun of themselves, that's what you're talking about. And yet, since you believe in this argument, I ask you directly: is it within the duty of the Minister to intercept talks? Isn't that how you did it? Didn't you consider that a few weeks ago a ministerial offence? Is it within the duty of the Minister to slander defamatoryly? Of course, ladies and gentlemen, you are in complete contradiction, but in complete contradiction with yourself. Those who consider the intercepted ministerial offense to come here and make the necessary clarifications. Otherwise, on the basis of developments from the night today and then, where we find you saying these, you will get the appropriate answers and not just. The case of NOVARTIS, to which you referred, is the explanation, ladies and gentlemen, because we have two hundred years in our Constitutions Article 86. If a student was asking his teacher why there is Article 86, his professor would mention the case of "NOVARTIS" and attempted to eliminate parties and persons. So we understand, we realize that what they did in Greece and you too, resurrecting memories, wanted to exclude the constitutional legislators from two centuries old. And because I have lived in the most intense emotional and political way of living this provision, I have the opportunity to express my word, while others must control their internal and political contradictions before they dare to lift their fingers. It is essential to change Rule 86, there is no doubt, and I support it with my signature, which only nine Members have co-signed at that time. We were all ten together, in 2006, when we made the relevant proposal for the revision of Article 86, with Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Mr. Socrates Kosmidis, Mr. Giorgos Kontoyannis and other six colleagues and no one else signed it at that time. On this subject, however, ladies and gentlemen, demagogy leads to terrible situations, which the demagogues themselves cannot rule out. I would like to repeat the question I raised in our committee a few weeks ago. Will you not tell me, if your order were voted on, that interpretative addition, what provision would the SYRIZA ministers have to make, with 86 as it is today, or 86 as it will be revised? Anyone who dares to say that they would be shot down by 86, as will be revised, is mocking the Greek people, because, I repeat, the issues of limitation are issues of substantive criminal law. So no scams, not wicked to us. We know a few legal things to give you back what you're saying. Mr President, with your tolerance, as the Vice-Presidents have done to previous colleagues, I would like to explain the views of the Change Movement on two other issues. Mr President, I think I will need another five minutes with great pressure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u102	All right, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to change a little, I would not have spoken like this if SYRIZA hadn't spoken like this a few minutes ago. In the eighth section, we reject the twinning of the executive power - we said this yesterday - and therefore, in order to have stability in our culture, we reject the simple analogue, because, as I explained yesterday in detail yesterday, the doubling of the executive power and the mere proportionalness lead to the government's instability, which ultimately turns against democracy. We must not slow down the anti-political climate that exists, through government instability, through the instability of the legislative body as well. We must ensure the stability of legislative and executive function, that the state operates so that the demagogues against democracy do not find any scope to speak. So we reject the proposal for the revision of Article 54(1) and the addition of a specific paragraph to Article 56, which you propose. The issue is different. You say in 56 that there is a three-parliamentary term in the election. I am overcoming the development of this issue very quickly, because I do not have time. Ladies and gentlemen, these terms of office, restriction, are more specific to the executive bodies. I have no regard for a legislative body in mind to be under restriction. The only person who exercises this restriction is the citizen himself and the politician who does not want to continue. Besides, Greece is rare cases where we had full parliamentary periods. The House usually dissolves itself prematurely. In both your country's administrations, the House was dismantled prematurely. So there is a little pretext for the provision you are proposing, that is to say it contains elements of a pretext. Now, I have a few minutes left for a top issue, for participation in the electorate, in the general parliamentary elections, in Greek and Greek citizens who are abroad. I made three positions in the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution. At the first I had a conflict with two SYRIZA Members - at political level, I mean, better confrontation - when I testified our principles. Four principles govern our position: voting on the electoral lists obviously, a vote equal to the rest of the electorates, a letter of vote and an end to electoral districts or a foreign constituency. The fourth was under discussion in what form we will make the final choice. In the first weeks of the meetings of the committee, it seemed that SYRIZA, the Civic Opposition, based on the possibility that the JRC would not agree with this major reform, in the field of civil rights and the democratic principle, expressed its opposition to the final result of the vote of non-Greek voters, Greeks and Greeks. In other words, they believed to SYRIZA that there was a minority of one, which did not allow the adoption of the relevant law, so they had the comfort of saying 'no'. However, when the JRC appeared - under conditions - positive to the equal and equivalent vote of the so-called 'declarations', for the sake of abbreviation, SYRIZA is moving. Positive is this displacement. And so it seems that there is also a common place here, and that is why the possibility, rather, of a hundred Members to stop this process was no longer there. Development is positive. I am learning, without yet having the final wording, that the intergroup continues to agree. So it seems that we will also proceed with the revision of Article 54(4). The title given by the parties to the legislative restrictions, which inform us that they will be introduced - and the parties agree - in the exercise of this political right, the right to vote, is proof of the existence of a certain link with the country, beyond origin. I would remind you that the relevant law must be passed by two hundred MPs to exist - not to exist immediately - in general, otherwise it is considered not to be voted on. And the adoption of this law follows the Revision of the Constitution, so we have a luxury in the wording of Article 54(4). We must not legislate by constitution. This Review House has the task of adding to Article 54 a new paragraph, paragraph 4, which will organize the vote of the so-called revenues, in order to be elected by a single roll-call vote of five Members representing them. I would like to explain that there are two categories of 'declaration' - within introductory words - which are listed on electoral lists, on the basis of the relevant budgets and in accordance with the last census under Article 54(2) of the Constitution: those who have recently left Greece, for example because of the crisis, and those who have left for too many years or decades before the adoption of the relevant law. It is my view that the drafting of the new paragraph 4 in Article 54 does not make any decisive sense! In our view, too, the Constitution must be sufficient - I am addressing the New Democracy - in a retraining wording of the possibility of introducing restrictions and not making any more specific arrangements. Because the legislator must be free. Since there is a restriction that, in order to vote on the relevant law or to amend it, there are two hundred votes, the largest majority, i.e. in order to vote on a draft law. If this were to be changed and determined by a majority of eighty, I would understand your concerns that you would want the restrictions to be placed in the Constitution. However, since this is maintained, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you must see your obligation to have the law, which you will bring to the House in line, not with Rule 54.4 which we will review, but with Article 51.4 and 54.2 and with the whole of the Constitution, in order not to be judged unconstitutional. But what you have not said, and we have not agreed, and that is why I am very careful about the argument, is that you must not bring in a very detailed constitutional provision, but suffice in an outline wording, that is, short, in the nature of the Constitution, and comprehensive, that is to say, as far as its content is concerned. If you want to make constitutional arrangements with excessive restrictions, you put us in the dilemma of what we prefer: not to do anything or to do something that is wrong. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I would add that, with the doubt of some, the intergroup did not go ahead with the vote. In other words, a man who lives next to a consulate who was now on the lists will vote, but one who lives five hundred miles or a thousand miles away will not vote, despite the fact that he is registered years and at some point he took the plane to come to Greece to vote. This is a great injustice. The letter vote should have the support of all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to finish. I don't have time. I will only be content with one conclusion. Mr President, however, the division of the modules, as we did with my own responsibility and with the Change Movement, was a little unfortunate in the last and lasting unity. Tomorrow we don't have much. Today we have three top issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u104	Are you talking about Friday's agenda?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u105	Yes, sir. Now we can't make it. Now we're done. The rapporteurs spoke. Mr Javarras did not refer to two issues. Mr. Katrugalos, except for Article 86, spoke too fast. I'm half out of my mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u106	You have your way and you are more attractive to the presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u107	Oh, no. You spoke more than I did. In any case, I have to finish. Tomorrow the process is short, because we only have two basic revised provisions. The others are abolished. Today, however, we have three top issues, and we should stay. I therefore conclude with the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, that our analyses of Article 54, as will be revised, for Article 62, as it will be revised, and that Article 86 demonstrates that, with fear, in the face of the argument, fear of political costs and hypocrisy, on the basis of which political arguments are being developed, the revision of Article 62 and Article 86 and Article 54, particularly the latter. The climax of the review démarche, articles 86 and 54, the vote of the results, photographs precisely these phobias, hypocrisy, atomia and splitting meaninglessly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students of Sociology from the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You are present in the Constitutional Review process, which is a process that is very rarely done. The review that will now take place will be followed by a possibility of revision after nine years, to understand. Now you will also be following the process of tabling the 2020 budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Finance Mr Christos Stakos will submit the State Budget for the financial year 2020. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Stavros Christos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the particular honour of presenting to the House the state budget for the financial year 2020 and its draft report. I also present a report on tax expenditure, reports by the Directors-General of the General Accounting Office of the State, tax administration, customs and excise duties, public property and utilities of the Ministry of Finance, the annual audit report of the Directorate-General for Financial Control of the General Accounting Office of the State, as well as the declarations provided for in Article 58 of Law 4270/2014, as applicable. At the same time, I shall submit the revenue and expenditure statement of the State budget for the financial year 2018 and the balance sheet and other financial statements for the financial year from 1-1-2018 to 31-12-2018. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, submits to the President of the Parliament the above mentioned in the form of a stick (digital storage instrument)]] Mr President, I would ask you to set dates for the state budget debate in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, following the statement by the Minister of Finance, let me inform you that the state budget debate in the relevant Standing Committee on Economic Affairs will take place on 25, 26, 27 and 28 November 2019, Monday and Thursday, at four meetings, after consulting the Bureau of the committee responsible. As far as the debate in plenary is concerned, you will be duly informed. However, the debate in plenary on the budget will obviously be the last debate on tradition before Christmas holidays. We are continuing the debate on the Revision of the Constitution. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Although the radical change of Article 86, the well-known law on liability of Ministers, and the proposals made by SYRIZA, and much more from New Democracy, are far from being called for over the years, that is to say, that there should be no inequality of treatment between a minister, a former Minister and a ordinary citizen with regard to criminal treatment. That has been the demand for all these years, that is to say, that there should be a level playing field. It was not a request to enter the Constitution for interpretative shapes. It is therefore a long way from being unequal treatment between ministers and ordinary citizens based on a key pillar, which neither the interpretative statement proposed by the SYRIZA nor, of course, the proposal to abolish the reduced limitation. Who is this pillar? It is the role of the parliament which has jurisdiction in judicial, judicial, to conduct a preliminary examination, to prosecute criminal prosecution, and even to revoke existing criminal prosecution. When we talk about a Parliament decision, we obviously mean the decision of a parliamentary government majority. This crucial role of Parliament remains in SYRIZA's proposal and in the New Democracy's proposal and in the proposal of the Change Movement. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] I am beginning with Rule 86 because Rule 62 on parliamentary immunity is a matter of another kind, because, firstly, the Member, unlike the Minister, does not manage public affairs and, by extension, public money, secondly, the immunity of the Member is temporary for as long as the parliamentary term is long, whereas the law on the responsibility of the ministers, which also applies to former ministers, is true, thirdly, the preliminary examination, the prosecution and the trial of a case for a Member is always done by the ordinary courts, obviously with the leave of the House, but always by the ordinary courts. So we do not associate both Articles, Articles 62 and 86. Article 86 of the Constitution is an unacceptable article, which must be repealed because it leads to cover-up. Rule 62 on parliamentary immunity has to do with the parliamentary activity of the Member and with regard to the JRC, this activity has to do with the support of the workers' struggles, and this must be protected. In our view, Article 62 does not need to be revised. We support the demand that all the obstacles set out in Rule 86 should be removed, and what is the time-limit for the House's judicial role, i.e. the government's majority, to investigate, prosecute or withdraw criminal prosecutions. This was our position and remains our position, without, of course, adopting - we have never done so - all of this disorientative theory, which has become very fashionable in the years of the crisis and the memoranda, according to which, for the economic crisis, for the memoranda, for the people's bankruptcy, it is the morality of the political world and not an entire economic and social system, a development path that has been found in their DNA and their crises and exploitation and scandals. So, in our view, this is a hypocritical theory, because the crisis and scandals are neither Greek nor will it be just a Greek phenomenon. It concerns, and will concern the entire capitalist world, even countries which may not have or may not have in their Constitution articles or protective provisions similar to those of Article 86 of our Constitution. In our opinion, therefore, through this whole debate on the morality and honour of the political world, the aim is to make a political'makers', to restore the authority of the urban political system which has been shaken over the years of the crisis because of the memoranda and because of the unpopular policies. Of course, I repeat that this is not due to the immunity of the ministers. There may also be honest politicians, there may also be honest ministers, yet we are happy to serve deeply anti-grassy, anti-grassroots policies. Although you are talking about the morality and honour of the political world, in the last two reviews of the Criminal Code made, one on SYRIZA before the elections and one on a New Democracy, there are two provisions which, if anything, are at least suspicious. One is the provision that has been made a great deal last week and relates to the release of assets to those involved in dirty money laundering cases - the New Democracy provision - and the other provision that has been voted on in SYRIZA is a conversion into a misdemeanour on the part of the public. In fact, the fact that this provision was applied only once a day, based on the principle of better criminal law, is sufficient to function retrospectively in all the cases that exist. So all this moral and honour debate also has evidence of hypocrisy. The SYRIZA proposal, with the addition of an interpretation of Article 86, actually restricts the application of the special provision of that article only to offences carried out in the course of ministerial duties and not to those carried out only when those duties are carried out. It is a construction which facilitates the referral of certain ministerial offences to justice, such as bribery and so on. However, other serious offences of Ministers will remain within the competence of the House, such as breach of duty. In fact, Mr Katrugalos only referred to the violation of duty, that is, the softest version, while at the same time there is the abuse of power, the infidelity, which will continue to be with the interpretative statement proposed by SYRIZA to the power of the House. We don't have to go far here. As long as we take into account the recent experience of the Committee of Inquiry set up for Mr Papagelopoulos. What happened to this pre-review committee? Certain requests for exemption were made with the legal claim not to coincide with the person of the verifier and the audited. In our opinion, these requests were correctly rejected, because they are inconsistent with the composition and functioning of a parliamentary committee, which is a political body. But, you see what dead ends are being created. What offences have been committed by this committee? He was set up for misuse of power, breach of duty, that is to say, the ones that, with the addition of the SYRIZA's interpretative declaration, will continue to be the responsibility and responsibility of the House. That is why we - even with the proposals for the revision of Rule 86 - are perpetuating the problem and the deadlock - are saying that we - even with the proposals for the revision of Rule 86, because a preliminary examination will continue to be decided by the House, the preliminary examination will continue to be made by a committee consisting of MPs, whereas, for ordinary citizens, the prosecution of the case is still brought by judicial officers, and not by the public prosecutors, but by the public prosecutors, it is still possible for the House to suspend or revoke a prosecuting, prosecuting or main proceedings at the hearing, and the cases relating to the criminal liability of ministers are still dealt with not by the ordinary criminal courts, depending on the gravity of the act, but by a special court. So there is still, despite improvements made, the judiciary role of the House for a number of offences. In fact, I have already heard Mr Katrugalos saying that if Article 86 is repealed, that will only concern the future, and there are loose ends. Who, together with the abolition of Article 86, prevents the entry of a transitional interpretative statement concerning any outstanding matters? In fact, tomorrow we will abolish seven - eight transitional provisions in the Constitution. So this argument does not stand still either. You could propose the abolition of the law on the responsibility of Ministers and the existence of an interpretative statement, which was of a transitional nature to the past. But you don't. It is therefore an alibi, in our view, that argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u112	The interpretative statement presupposes an active rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u113	It could provide for equality and for a transitional interpretative statement, as there are too many transitional provisions in the Constitution, Mr Katrugale, some of which we will, in fact, abolish tomorrow. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We therefore repeat the need, on the basis of the experience that exists, to abolish the law on the responsibility of Ministers in full, and we do not go into the logic of making legal, interpretative or filters, in order to avoid what was a request for all these years and the Greek people and political forces. Why don't we first discuss the law on the responsibility of Ministers in this constitutional review. There has been a debate and there SYRIZA's position was the complete abolition, it was not the interpretative shape. I now come to the other issues relating to Article 54 and so on. Since the first moment, as you know, the JRC has dealt with the issue of Greeks voting without small-party purposes, without regularism, without counting beans and with the aim of finding a solution that will facilitate Greeks who live, work or study abroad, who have ties with the country and who may also have their hope of returning to the country, to exercise their electoral right from the place of residence. At the same time, however, a solution must be found which, on the one hand, guarantees this right, but on the other hand prevents the electorate from being altered by voters who, perhaps, have no knowledge of the Greek political reality, have no real ties with the country and, above all, do not exist or suffer the consequences of any political choice. We are talking, in other words, about people who, because of their long stay abroad, may have been born abroad or are descendants of old immigrants, have objectively incorporated into the societies of these countries, have well or badly - it is objective - link their lives and their future to these societies and, most importantly, form a political consciousness and criterion based on developments, on the relationship and on the political reality in these countries, which may differ radically from the reality that we live in our own country. That is why the JRC's proposal had three main axes in order to exercise the electoral right at the place of residence and to be able to count on the electoral correlation. The first axis is the existence of real economic and social links with Greece, such as, for example, tax obligations and not just a mental bond, which no one disputes that there may be, but it is not enough. After all, even at the core of the urban perception of formal equality of voting rights is the correlation between the right to vote and the existence of obligations, namely, to suffer the consequences, whatever consequences, from the political choice it makes. The second axis of our proposal is the existence of a maximum, reasonable time absence from the country or vice versa of a reasonable minimum presence area in the country, mainly for documentation purposes. The third criterion was the presence in elections of the foreigners who guarantee the validity of the vote, but above all it guarantees essential political interest and participation, which must be ensured by participation in an electoral process. With these criteria, in our view, those who left in the years of the crisis and the memoranda are also covered, so that we can say that better than those who have been persecuted by the governments with their policy over the years of the crisis and the memoranda, because immigration, like refugee, is not a natural phenomenon. No one leaves to another country, just because he hobbies or tourism, leaves because there is such a need. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, in relation to the criteria, we stressed that these should be safeguarded and shielded constitutionally and applied to all those who want to join the special electoral lists abroad, without any distinction between old and new registered. Let us now see what data we have taken into account in shaping this proposal, which is clean, comprehensive, coherent and accepted. First of all, we have taken into account the fact - something that no one says - that in Greek citizenship law - contrary to what is happening in other states too - the ancestor dominates - despite the changes that have been made - the anachronistic law of blood, which results from those who have Greek origin, only one ancestor - and this ancestor may be too far away - to be able to obtain Greek citizenship. It means that they can easily obtain Greek citizenship from other countries, as long as they can prove that they have even a distant ancestor from Greece. So what the government said at first, but also other parties, and the Change Movement and the Mera25, which criticises the New Democracy, is retreating from its initial positions - that the regulation must concern all those who are registered, in our view, is half the truth. And why is half the truth? Because it is aware that under the current Greek law of citizenship, there is probably the possibility of being registered on the electoral lists, of obtaining voting rights, and therefore the right to decisive intervention in political developments, many more thousands of people who come from Greece, although they love Greece - no one disputes this - yet they have been cut off from the Greek reality and do not form a criterion based on this reality. The second presumption that we have taken into account is international experience and international practice. Most countries, particularly the European countries, the United Kingdom, Germany and the United States of America, all make conditions for the exercise of the electoral right by their own voters, who live abroad, while some other countries, for example Ireland or Israel, for example, forbid it for good reasons. These conditions are neither a restriction nor a result of the electoral right. They are ways of facilitating the exercise of the electoral right by joining the special electoral lists abroad. This proposal, in our view, is also differentiated from the original proposal from the New Democracy, PASOK or Mera25, but also from the original proposal from SYRIZA. What for? Because, in our view, SYRIZA's proposal opened a dangerous ferry. Who's that? It allows the exercise of the right to vote on the basis of unlimited blood law. Even if this is done for a limited number of Members, even if this is done without calculation in the correlation of power, it gives the right, based on the law of blood, to vote for up to 3 million people. So it's a coup d'etat. We think that there was a good discussion on the JRC's specific proposals, but we stressed that our final attitude would be shaped by the deposit of the government's bill, and since, of course, these conditions are also constitutionally covered in Article 54 with the labels, which we have also made, of course, in the government's draft law. In relation to Article 54 which we are debating today, we are in agreement with the condition that the time of absence or presence should be included, but that there should also be a real link. Finally, a debate on the vote, because it also concerns the electoral law as a whole. With regard to the invoicing of the exchange rate, that is to say that we have to adopt the vote on the vote, because that is what it requires, in our opinion, there is also hypocrisy here, because there is a selective call for this exchange rate, because there is not even a vote in favour of it today. We cannot accept that there is a formal equality of vote - in fact there is no anyway - when there is an election law that keeps a motto and a bonus. Once these are in the electoral law, we cannot talk about even a formal vote. The proposal made by the SYRIZA at this point - and we said yesterday - does not exclude either the plaque, or the bonus is equal, because it allows for a reduction of up to 10% of the votes that the parties will have taken in this House and the final distribution of seats. Therefore, there can be no equitable vote when such conditions exist in the electoral law. I say again that we firmly support the simple and undisputed analogy, which is incompatible with any plaque, bonus and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. I would ask the special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Heta, to take the floor. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a new MEP in the Greek Parliament I also gradually understand the dangers of our operation. You'll allow me to talk to you a little bit about these dangers, because I want to say first that I consider myself a good student. I feel really proud because in these four months I represent the Greek citizens, who honoured me with their vote, I do not have a single absence. I do not know how many Members, apart from my Greek colleagues, can be just as proud. Unfortunately, this is a truth that does not honor us. Many colleagues, if their absences were measured as they used to be in school, would have stayed in the same class. So, like any diligent student, I try to be better reading. The truth is, I read every day, I study everything, and not only the positions of the Greek Solution, but also the positions of the rest of the parties. In particular, with regard to the Revision of the Constitution, in which I am actively involved, I have watched live or read in second year almost every speech that has been made. And from here I will begin - you will allow me - to get to the danger that, as I said earlier, we are running in this Chamber. In a random order, therefore, I shall refer to a few statements by officials from the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement - there are, of course, too many reports - and, at the same time, I can then - not now - put them in the Minutes. Konstantinos Tasoulas, President of the Parliament: "Our debt, despite disagreements, is to prepare a constitution adapted to the 21st century." Evripidis Stylianides: "The Review has given many results, much more than the original expectations". Konstantinos Javaras: "It is fruitful to discuss the constitutional revision." George Katrugalos: "The revision of the Constitution aimed at modernising the institutions, deepening democracy and the healing of institutional sins of the past." Marilissa Xinoyanakopoulou: "This constitutional review is a great opportunity to strengthen democratic legitimacy" etc. Andreas Loverdos: "We have proposed in the previous House that provisions relating to policy and to the citizen should be reviewed, namely the reduction of bureaucracy in administration and justice, so as to stop the citizen from being oppressed by it." And I'm in danger now. We're gonna go completely crazy in here, really. That's probably your target, you know, totally mad at us. You want to drive us crazy and the Greeks, who are trying to watch the debate on the Revision of the Constitution. We see and listen to all these oscars - you will allow me to say - interpretations on the backdrop of the country's top law. Of course, the first applause is on either side's side's 'costs'. Their applause every time tone rises proves that in this Chamber more than all the arts, ladies and gentlemen, we love the theatre. It is, however, an agreed theater of absurdity for only communications. This fight of the figure, unfortunately, has side losses. The marble of course will pay for it again. And he will pay for it because, as I said yesterday, after so much effort and so much dialogue, we are throwing another great opportunity. So, on the one hand, you agree, Mr Javarra, that it is the instrument on which we will give answers to important issues of our democracy, and on the other, you are allegedly opposed to how it is implemented. Once again there are issues to which you agree on the substance and promote the interests of the Greeks. Where do you agree? You agree in Greek-Turkish, you agree to the scoppiano, you agree to the economy and you agree to the embezzlemen who will change the country so rapidly, that Mr Mitsotakis' exaggerated statement to "HANDELSBLATT" that in two years will not be the same, it will take flesh and bones from his statement, of course for other reasons and not for economic reasons, as he claimed, but this illegal invasion. On the substance, you agree with everything the Greeks disagree with you. See which one you agree to. In everything the Greeks disagree with you. Unfortunately, despite the importance of the Greek Constitution, the governments concerned are clearly using it in their place, unfortunately serving micro-political games. Whenever it's your interest, you're talking about constitutional policy, so it's your interest to talk about constitutional science. But we are here to pursue a policy that will work for the benefit of the Greek people. We're not here to play scientists. We're not here to play constitutionalists or teachers. We are here to propose realistic solutions. We are here to suggest solutions adapted to reality, away from koruna. And by addressing the Greeks who are listening to us, I would like to tell them that 'yes, there is a solution'. This is where we come to the today's apple of Eridus, morality in politics. Under normal circumstances, morality in politics should not be so dry. Instead, it should be dispersed at all levels of our political life. Of course, if we go out now, as we are here in Syntagma Square and have a goulop, a survey, such as the Greek word, about the level of ethos in politics, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that Niagaras would not wash away from us either. Even the popular corporations, which you know very well, do not spoil carpets and make the same result as they are ordered, cannot hide the very bad opinion the citizens have on the morality of Greek politicians. Both the parliamentary immunity and the criminal liability of the ministers have erupted a storm of protest from the people. The Greeks are not foolish, ladies and gentlemen. They remember those who drove with fake license plates, without a license, those who in their offices even their cups from below wrote "SIEMENS", as they remember the stories about black bags with the chips. For "NOVARTIS" they don't need to be remembered, because they have the ability to be watched live, direct transmission from Parliament's channel. Unfortunately, the House has only just decided on a few occasions to waive immunity from Members so that the Member may be brought before justice for the offences allegedly committed. To understand the world, the Greeks and the Greeks who are listening to us, I will tell you that from 1975 to 2005 - thirty years! - about a thousand applications for waivers of parliamentary immunity were submitted. Thirty-thirty-thousand applications! Do you know how many of them were accepted? Five! Just five of the thousand applications for waiver of immunity, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u116	The four of them were asked for themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u117	To this day? What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u118	How do I say? Five, Mr. Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u119	To this day?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u120	By 2005, I said, Mr. Voutsi. I said 1975 to 2005.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u121	Tell us from 2005 to 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u122	I limited it until 2005, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u123	The selective use of numbers, as you present them, is not a democratic custom.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u124	Did I lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u125	Because I heard you're democrats. The selective use, therefore, does not honor you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u126	Aren't we democrats, Mr. Javarra? You're implying something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u127	Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u128	Because democracy still exists to this day.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u129	To understand, Mr. Javarra, do you imply something, that we are not democrats?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u130	Democracy exists to this day. So bring the numbers by 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u131	Are you suggesting we're not democratic?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u132	Yes, yes, that you are making selective use, to draw conclusions, which are not confirmed by reality. That's why I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u133	Mr. President, please very much...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u134	Please do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u135	It is not a matter of interruption, Mr President. Mr. Javarras...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u136	That is why I am telling you, because what you are doing does not honor you nor your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u137	Nor do you honour what you said, Mr Javarra, that we are not democrats.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u138	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u139	It's okay. Let me go, it's me...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u140	No, I'm not leaving you, Mr. Javarra. I would ask, Mr President, to withdraw because he said that we are not democrats.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Javarra, please don't interrupt again. Mr. Heta, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u142	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u143	You said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u144	Take the Minutes to understand what I've told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u145	You said that we are not democrats. Did you say it or not, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Javarra...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u147	Take the Minutes, to understand what I've told you, because, as far as I can tell, you have a hard time understanding the messages I'm sending through the language. You have such a weakness and you want to be honorers!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u148	I return the designations and you are not a democrat, because you do not respect the speaker. So you're not a democrat at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u149	No, sir, you're causing us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, are you going to impose the order, or am I going to shout more?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Javarra, you will be given the opportunity, you will have the floor again later. Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u152	Mr Javarras is not a democrat at all, because he is interrupting the speaker and I am returning the designations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Javarra, you will be given the opportunity and you may be given another colleague or Mr. Stylianides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u154	If you disagree, Mr Javarra, you can reply in your dentext.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u155	I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u156	Don't answer that, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Javarra, please don't interrupt again. Go on, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u158	Your democracy is missing, Mr. Javarra! So to refresh your memory, I didn't tell any lies about the period 1975 to 2005, because these are the numbers. I return again and ask that what Mr Javarras said be deleted, that we are not democrats. So, to freshen up the memory of Members in alpha or beta way, I tell you about the provocation of traffic accidents, about the extradition of uncovered cheques, about fraud, about the payment of insurance contributions, about forgery, and the list has no end. We're losing the point. And the point is, Mr. Javarra, there must be...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u159	Don't make personal reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u160	I apologise, Mr President, for withdrawing. I am not addressing Mr Javara, but my fellow Members. The Member cannot, under any circumstances, have immunity from criminal offences, and that is the essence. But that does not suit you and you are lost in numbers, ladies and gentlemen, not to mention names. You don't look at the essence of what we say. And the essence is that the Member should not have immunity and that the Member's status is a duty and duty vis-à-vis the Greek people and democracy. Here we are, then, again here. The Member is accountable for the consequences of his actions and, when necessary, must be before justice, ladies and gentlemen, not to say names. Real equivalency. That is what we, ladies and gentlemen, support, and we are not democratic, as some people are saying in this House. Because what we support clearly and not whenever it suits us, as you are doing, ladies and gentlemen, to equal treatment for ambassadors and for the responsibility of the ministers, which is not the case for you. And Article 86 of the Constitution is known to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u161	Call me Javarra, I have no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u162	Rule on the impunity of the ministers. We all know that citizens are rightly outraged by this article and I will say it directly. Since the founding of the Greek Solution, we have been calling for the complete abolition of Article 86 of the Constitution. What clearer than that? Despite the popular outcry, there are only proposals in this Review House on such an important subject. So today, after everything that has been done, after this mud and the contagion that has been taken together our political system, after a 'NOVARTIS' scandal, 'SIEMENS', 'Batopody', what are you doing? You come and instead of doing the same thing, that is to say the abolition of Article 86, you are only proposing that the time-limit be abolished. I do not think the world, the Greek citizens, is satisfied with this. When will you understand that no politicians should take advantage of the Greek people's trust in their own interests, so that they will have a privileged treatment? Because that's what's happening. Aren't we all equal before the law? What is absurd in what we say and we support? Isn't that clear about our Constitution, our laws and our morals? So how is it about the 'NOVARTIS' cases, 'SIEMENS', which have some shades of evidence, while the political knives had come out a while ago, now suddenly the tons have fallen, you pulled Mr. Tsipras out of the knives and in the castle some party consumable consumables have remained smiling, let me the expression.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u163	For NoVARTIS?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u165	Tsipras for "NOVARTIS"?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u166	No, they took him out of the frame, I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u167	About "NOVARTIS", I'm asking?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u168	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u169	Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u170	No, sir, for the Papaggelopoulos case.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u171	They took him out of the frame, sir. Didn't you say here any more? Didn't you say that Mr. Papagelopoulos did these on his own if he did?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u172	One more case and the other one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u173	Don't have a dialogue. Go on, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u174	Did he do it on his own?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Heta, keep going, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u176	She's having a hard time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u177	No difficulty, Mr. Javarra. You have difficulty listening to truths, Mr. Jabara. It's bothering you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u178	Sure!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u179	When the speaker is interrupted, he cannot continue. Mr. Heta, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u180	Do you know what it is? You can tell the Greek people that on the basis of the two major and important points you agree. This is your difficulty. Unfortunately, Mr Javarra, you agree with the great and important, you are the same currency, the two sides of the same currency. Unfortunately, for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u181	What are you? Aren't you telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u182	What we are, Mr Javarra, say it here every day with our presence. Also, we're buying a coffee at the expense of...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u183	What are you? Where did you come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u184	I'll talk to you both, if you want, because this is where we're talking, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u185	What have you done about democracy, you're not telling us? Get out of here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u186	Get out of here! Mr. President, what does it say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u187	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u188	Get out of here, Mr. Javaras says.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u189	No, I say it in a good way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u190	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u191	But, Mr. Heta, you have a dialogue. Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u192	Get out of here, he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u193	Please do not engage in dialogue. Do not address it by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u194	Mr. President, will you protect us? What does it say to you to leave? What's going on here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u195	To this House, not by name. And you, Mr. Javarra, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u196	But he's making the prosecutor, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u197	You're bothering to hear them. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u198	He came here to make us the D.A.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Javarra, you will be given the opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u200	He does not look at the subject we are discussing, to tell us what the Greek solution is about the issues we are discussing. He only came here to pretend to be the D.A.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u201	Mr. President, what's going on here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u202	And I ask, who are you, sir? How do you legalize?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u203	Will you leave the show, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u204	Who are you? Tell us who you are, we'll meet you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u205	Mr. President, man has a show.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u206	Please, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Javarra, listen a little. We have tabled our proposals, because we are very carefully involved in this process and we have tabled our proposals. Mr. Stylianides, as President-in-Office, do you have them or not? You have them. So let Mr. Javarra know...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Heta, don't have a dialogue. I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u209	No, say, Mr President, about me. Mr. Javarras had a show and you didn't even say his name. Shouldn't I answer? We have tabled all the proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u210	Yeah, but you're making This is forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. Don't report.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u211	Let the chairman of the committee inform Mr. Javarra...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u212	Listen to me. Don't report. I know the House is a spectacle, but don't make it a theater. Keep going, please. I'll keep your time. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u213	How does the microphone close? Listen to me, to put some things in a classroom, because I think the situation is getting out of hand. With all due respect to you, I would like to say that at Mr. Javarra's show, you didn't impose the order while...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u214	You're reporting again. So you see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u215	But I have to answer. I'm getting past everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u216	Do not speak to colleagues by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u217	May I ask the chairman of the committee, who has assured within Parliament that the Greek Solution has submitted all proposals since the first day to inform the rapporteur of the New Democracy, why is he uninformed? Because he calls me D.A. and I don't make any suggestions. Yes, sir. The President agreed with me. Next door, they're sitting next door, so let him know. I am really sorry that this gentleman, whom I really respect and respect, made me such an inappropriate attack today very simply because he did not like to hear what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u218	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u219	No, it's okay. At least respect me, nothing more. Dispute with what I'm saying, but respect me. You have every right to disagree and you confirmed everything I said about plays and shows. Let's go down. The Greek Solution proposes that rights should be recognised in Parliament's minority and that each parliamentary party may table a proposal for a preliminary examination against a Minister. Do not, in other words, depend on a number of arithmetic criteria as the number thirty. It's thirty now, like the thirty we're looking for. For example, the thirty we're looking for to investigate the lawsuit against Mr. Kotzias. We're calling it out of the 7th of July that we got in here. The other 20 were not found. To be able to do that, to have the right. We also ask the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, at every opportunity, whether he will set up a committee to find out what is happening with PPC. He said so himself. He avoids answering. So we have the right to ten or fifteen or twenty Members to set up the committee. But if things stay the same, what does that mean? Firstly, a government majority never - and it makes sense - will only turn against itself against previous ones, for example, now in the Papagelopoulos case. Secondly, the Civic Opposition that it needed - and that makes sense - will never ask for an examination of the facts of its own term. We have a real opportunity in front of us: to get rid of the retreat of the political world - because that is what is important - and to restore the name of politicians to Greek citizens and let justice do its job undignified. Now we're going to the emigrants and the electoral law. I have said that in committee too. I guess some people didn't listen to me when I said it. In fact, we were one of the first parties to vote for the results and may also be certified by the chairman of the committee, but in the intergroup we were clear, with retreats on our part. However, we felt it more important that our fellow citizens who are abroad should be able to vote. We now go to what SYRIZA supports, on the one hand, the analogous system as the best system, but on the other hand, we also have a reinforced analogue, and on the other hand, we have the New Democracy Government which directly threatened that if the electoral law is not changed - in the direction it wants - with more than two hundred votes, we will be punished by double elections. It would be a good thing if the New Democracy tried to bring all its institutions to its feet. He's gonna fail if he tries to do that. It is clear from the above that SYRIZA and New Democracy want what? To share one-sided power and management of the public funds in one-sided way. So the problem has nothing to do with proportional electoral law, but with the small-party interest. What do we support for those who had not yet heard? We clearly support the fact that the electoral system of mere analogy is the fairest, because that is what reflects the popular will in its real dimensions. But let me make it clear. Another is the abolition of any bonuses in the analogue system and another is the 3% limit required to enter a party in the House. We believe that 3% must be left, because there must be consistency in this House. And we say that, stressing the danger that exists in Thrace, with 1% if that were the case, that other parties should enter the House. And the notion is. For the term of office of the Member of Parliament, we have an ombudsman to say that if a person is elected three times as a Member he cannot be re-elected. We therefore abolish on the one hand the phenomenon of the heir of politicians and permanent, professional politicians and, on the other, we allow Greek citizens to try to represent their fellow citizens. In conclusion, I would like to point out that we have a great opportunity with the constitutional review to strengthen the popular will, by introducing unadulterated and genuine involvement of citizens, to decentralise policy in the hands of the ordinary citizen and thus introduce society into our political system. Indeed, the participation of the citizen and also of the democratic Hellenism in the public, with a fair analogue system, enhances our democracy, the spirit of parliamentaryism and our culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr. Heta. I would now ask Mrs Adamopoulou, on behalf of Mera25, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is on top of the agenda with the revised proposals for Articles 62 and 86 of the Constitution, on parliamentary immunity and criminal liability and prosecution of ministers. These proposals, supported by a fairly reinforced majority in the previous House, with the exception of the introduction of an interpretative declaration on offences, which was made in the course of the exercise and not at the occasion of the ministerial service. This means, therefore, that this House only needs one hundred and fifty votes to identify the two provisions of the revised, which are the two sides of the same currency and which have been afflicted for years in political reality and in social dialogue. The current Parliament will therefore be called upon by the minimum predicted majority to regulate two procedures, which experience shows that they are legally suffering, are deeply affecting the institutional authority of both politics and justice. In theoretical dialectic, but also in international practice, the criminal liability of the ministers is regulated according to the standards of two main schools. One acknowledges the need for a member of the government to go through the way of the House before the threshold of justice is passed, while the other considers such preparatory procedures unnecessary, believing that the House is only entitled to seek political responsibilities, but never to be involved in the criminal proceedings. This is an approach that avoids criminalisation of political life and thus equates the member of the government with the citizen on the part of the criminal procedure. Here we must remind historically that the House as a body of criminal responsibility was initiated by the United Kingdom, because in the 17th and 18th centuries there was not yet the so-called parliamentary responsibility, that is to say, the search for political responsibilities and the search for criminal responsibilities by the parliaments covered this gap. So look at what a wonderful institutional example the British Members themselves gave. When parliamentary responsibility was established, the House has already decided in 1804 not to seek criminal responsibilities of Ministers, although it has had every legal right. The House is also not involved in France, Germany, Ireland, Spain, with the exception of certain political crimes. While in Italy the sole competence of the House is to discontinue the procedure if it considers that the Minister has acted to protect a critical constitutional public interest. Therefore, we have four major prerogatives of European legal culture, which represent both major schools of law worldwide, which adopt a system of zero or minimum intervention by parliament on matters of criminal liability of Ministers. In Greek state texts, on the other hand, special arrangements for the responsibility of ministers have been in place since 1822. We have been insisting for almost two hundred years on a system, which retains its basic architecture, which has led us to a civil strife and under which fifteen Prime Ministers have been accused, and yet the famous clearance of the political system has never occurred. If we add the courtesy of micropolitical involvement, manipulation and yellowism, we can safely talk about a fiasco. A fiasco that arrived at the Nadir when a parliament decided to prosecute former ministers even though the offences had obviously been dropped. However, neither New Democracy nor SYRIZA with their proposals seem to want to solve these problems definitively. Because they still accept the wrong assumption that political and criminal responsibility are involved in a procedural process, while it is clear that other acts and omissions, which are detrimental to the public interest and need a political valuation, should be attributed political responsibility and other criminal behaviours which should be the sole responsibility of justice. It is indeed possible - because this was also raised as a matter of concern in committee - a minister or a Member - and the practice has shown it - to deal with abuses and sometimes see political feasibility. It is not only the ministers and MPs who are vulnerable to unfair legal adventures or to pretext complaints that hide a political sign. At the same time, officials from local government may need to be subjected to local government officials, judges, prosecutors, hospital administrators, officials who carry out inspections, managers of public enterprises, a circle of people who are called to take decisions that may be sad. So the question is: Do these people who perform such important tasks do not need the corresponding institutional guarantees with that logic? Does it not conflict with the principle of equality to exclude them from a corresponding institutional protection umbrella, since they are at corresponding risk to Members and Ministers? We understand, however, that this, legally necessary, extension is one that puts the problem in its right dimension, because it shows the paradox, that we still have to seek equality within the same inequality. And I am talking about the primary blow to equality that wants ministers and MPs to have privileged treatment in criminal matters in relation to all other citizens. So that creates the problem, and that was identified by the European legal classes I mentioned and rejected. Although the predominant terminology speaks of criminalisation of political life, in Mera25 we are sure that we must put an end to the politicisation of criminal life. The Committee of Inquiry itself is absolutely sufficient, in order to carry out its control role, and to seek, in depth, policies and only responsibilities for acts or omissions of Ministers. For all the rest, regular justice must be undertaken by reason of its competence, as the principle of separation of powers and the principle of equality stipulates. In this respect, furthermore, Professor Androullakis agrees on the criminal doctrine and on his part Professor Kasimatis, who notes: "Let the current privileged criminal prosecution system of the members of the government be lifted immediately and in his position to establish that, from now on, the ministers will be persecuted and tried like all citizens, but with an absolute degree of time, so as to put an end to this political negligence that harms democracy". There are therefore other ways of satisfying the law - we would say - requesting enhanced protection, which are known to us, always through justice. We are entrusting the exercise of criminal prosecutions for criminal offences of Ministers to senior prosecutors and, as we are suggesting, to ensure that their experience and independence are the ultimate institutional guarantee, to guarantee an effective, rapid and fair crisis and so that the political system and society are not jeopardised by various delays that feed back Scandinavia. It was heard as a post on the New Democracy's side of the committee that judges could not control political feasibility. Is it not enough to simply check if the Minister committed a criminal offence? If justice finds that there is indeed a glimpse of the Minister's criminality, would it matter who denounces it and whether this is going to happen to micro-policy? And vice versa, if an independent judiciary finally considers that a lawsuit or petition is a product of unfounded claims - whoever they are - can't file the case, self-address the malicious complainant himself by judging, by the way, then that there was political feasibility? Inside this crisis, can it not include assessments, which have to do with the purpose of the treacherous messenger and take a clear position? So behind these positions, which require special privileges, there is a deep question for civil servants in justice, which is also a sign of the crisis of parliamentism and constitutionalism. Therefore, as Mr Vlachopoulou says, 'it is impossible for a constitutional provision to be based on and reliant on the institutions of justice'. Mr Venizelos also found it when he wrote "I think maintaining this House's competence in most of the modern constitutions is a manifestation of distrust over the political impartiality of the judiciary". Later, however, judging by his position, he implied that the prosecutors may be moving on the basis of some political stepping-by-step, and so they may be abusive, and we may cause a breach in relations between political and judicial authority. So he becomes a skeptic himself. However, it is not enough either for those who insist on the maintenance of the problem. Are you concerned about the openness of the courts because of their political attitude and formation, and that is why you are deciding to trust the politicians, who are already covered by the presumption of political feasibility? How well, then, Professor Chrysanogonos himself puts it! He says: "If the political impartiality of the judges is questionable or questionable, the political impartiality of the Members is by definition non-existent. Or, to put it more modestly, why should we be judged that the political impartiality of Members is undeniable?' So, for the ministers, we claim to be the same as for the citizens, and in this way we solve the dilemma 'in the exercise of or on the occasion of duties', and we say: both in the exercise and on the occasion. In this way, we simplify the issue, we resolve all the issues of expropriation deadlines and all the issues of the elimination of expulsion, which are now finally being granted immunities. Finally, together with the ban on proprietaryity, we entrust a council of three Vice-Presidents of the Ice Bay with the absolute priority of examining any complaint. Our proposal respects the distinction of powers, trusts the Greek judge, restores equality and ultimately relieves parliamentism from the deterioration of micropolitical toys and manipulations. The same point of view is taking our turn in the matter of parliamentary immunity. The MEP is at risk much less than the Minister and is already protected by Rule 61 for an opinion or vote he gave in the course of his parliamentary duties. Members of Parliament's criminal affairs have no place in Parliament's headquarters and Parliament has no place in the criminal investigation of MPs. As in the case of the Ministers, regular justice can best guarantee the protection of the parliamentary authority. And here experience confirms to us, the immunity that is supposed to protect our authority comes itself and undermines it. That is why the citizens are calling for a profound change in the rule of immunity and responsibility of Ministers. I will repeat what I said in committee: 82% say 'the politicians cannot decide whether or not to refer to justice'. We are listening to this request and we come to a simple and understandable solution: the same criminal treatment between citizens, MPs or ministers. No privilege, no distinct treatment. After all, our political morality requires that the official give a good example of equality and honesty. We are an equal part of the people and even with increased commitments. In total, we ask the Members to be subject to the regular criminal proceedings, with the exception of the acts relating to their free and uninterrupted parliamentary action, for which Parliament's permission is needed. However, the model of the pre-examination committees looking for criminal responsibilities is also logical. Such committees are totally unnecessary. When justice takes over, there is no need for a Member to act as the prosecutor. That is why we are abstaining from this hypocrisy. The question is: when did the Committees of Inquiry fall light? Have they escaped micropolitical disease, politicians and journalists from the little screen and front pages? Are the guarantees kept and the presumption of innocence? Some defend the work of the criminal committees of inquiry and consider them necessary, at the same time as we are all seeing the committee on the case of NOVARTIS working day by day, called by a Member of the junta commission, to hear that there is a disgrace in what was sacred in this House, to see a majority pressing with a heavy anti-institutional hand, resorting to unusual enforcement tactics, even to debate the guard of this House itself. No man who cares about Greece would like, therefore, to be involved in a committee which insults and discredits the country. That is why we do not legalise the committee in our presence, the reason why we will not legalise such committees in future and which we are striving to abolish. So all in justice and only in justice. In relation to Rule 54 and the simple analogue: it is well known that Mera25 would like to be open, simple analogue, without a threshold for entry into the House, and even without a Member of the State, with a people-balanced electoral districts and with an explicit abolition of the one-sided and double-sided elections, which operate in favour of bipartisanism and undermine pluralism. It is the only electoral system, which promotes genuine representation of the people's will in Parliament and which ensures, as is said, the genuine recording of social and political ties. The simple analogue actually makes everyone's vote equal and promotes healthy multilingual parliamentaryism, giving each parliamentary group the power it deserves. Thus, consents multiply, encourage the collaboration of the many and the winners end up with our political culture and public interest. And it is interesting that the government, which today supports increased self-restraints, because only five years ago, in 2014, it concluded that the analogue system is more in line with the needs of the expansion of democratic legitimacy of the Parliament, as a consequence of which the government is based on the confidence of the Parliament. Why today is the simple analogue for the government destructive for the country? So the answer is again in the neoliberal doctrine. You tell us that the electoral system should ensure that the parties are reasonably represented and that the country is governed. Nor do we see a half reference to popular sovereignty. Maximum virtue is rulership, the citizen again on the edge and the familiar terror. The chaos of insolence. I'll stop here because I don't want to tire you anymore with my cough. On the subject of the vote on the motions for resolutions, our parliamentary representative will be referred to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u223	Is there another minister who's going to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u224	I think not. Mr Loverdos, because there's a committee that's in progress for mediation, so maybe in earlier years I'm at the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u225	Here, you can start, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 1975 Constitution, with the successive revisions that have taken place since then, gave a solid basis for the development of the post-political parliamentary democracy in Greece. Despite the problems that have existed for forty-four years, this Constitution has guaranteed the country an undisturbed democratic parliamentary life, a life that has been unprecedented for the political data of the new Greek state, as created by the struggle for liberation until today. That is why I think we should all assess it very positively. We must also say and evaluate very positively the contribution of all the political forces from 1975 to now, from the Right to the Left, to the joint creation of institutions that have endured, which have offered and placed the post-Greek state in the front line between the rest of the European states. However, after a prolonged ten-year economic crisis, which has not only affected the economy, but has profoundly affected Greek society, the country is beginning to recover financially. Of course, this recovery is accompanied by a political maturity among the citizens, who are turning back the bad practices of the past. This transformation of the Greek economy and society to meet the challenges of the 4th industrial revolution cannot achieve this without the necessary reforms and it is true that the Greek society itself is calling for these reforms to go ahead. However, this demand for society once again cannot be achieved on the basis of the existing constitutional provisions. I think that's what we all agree on. Or if not we all agree, at least most. However, some political forces - and I am referring above all to the Civic Opposition - instead of taking advantage of this social movement and this pressure from society for reform, unfortunately did not do so during the previous period of the Revision House, in my view, unequivocally. Inner-party purposes or even ideologies have led to a reality of excluding many articles from the previous review process. And that's not something that can just cause us grief. It's extremely painful. Ladies and gentlemen, you know - we have said so many times - that the constitutional review is not a frequent procedure for parliamentary practice. It is a process, which is repeated on average every ten years. We have lost an opportunity to respond to what the Greek society itself put forward as a key demand. We left behind provisions proposed by the majority today during the previous process of the House, which could, to a large extent, respond to the challenges of the times. But we are here to complete this process with what we have finally chosen to change and send a strong signal to all those who, possibly, build political careers, fuelling parliamentaryism and democracy. Today's interventions remain important, because they demonstrate that our democracy remains strong. And the people's sovereignty, which, according to our Constitution, stems from the people and is exercised through us, is exercised for all citizens without discrimination and separation, protecting their individual, social and political rights. With the amendments that we are proposing, we restore the food prestige of the political world by means of provisions that enhance the transparency of political life, promote parliamentary control, ensure unresolved political action and address corruption with determination. I think that it is precisely in this context that the proposal for a revision of Articles 62 and 86 is part of the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, the safeguarding and functioning of the representative system, as a modern state, is based on two main pillars: the representative, who is the people, and the representative, who is the Member, who must exercise his parliamentary duties with full freedom of opinion, action and vote against conscience. This function is performed by the institution of parliamentary immunity, which is intended to guarantee the Member as an institution and not as a person, in order to enable him to perform his duties unaffected by any kind of distraction that would be intended to manipulate his/her mind. It is true that in recent years public opinion has taken a negative picture from various events in the national Parliament. I think that no one can argue with that. For several years a bad practice has been established that no parliamentary immunity is lifted for anyone and any accusations. This picture is wrong and we must have the courage to admit it. And it is important that at practical level in recent years this picture has changed sharply. And, above all, it changed with the contribution of those colleagues who, even in cases where they could ask for and enjoy immunity, asked the House to waive immunity, for this benefit to be waived. But on the other hand, I cannot stand by the bad practice of Members of today's Representation during the previous parliamentary term, when on the pretext of the ministerial status of MPs they provoked the lifting of their immunity, in fact guaranteeing impunity. So they did not protect Parliament's authority. On the contrary, they offered an alibi to all those forces of populism, who are trying to identify the institution with a synergyal attitude, and as a result once again the authority of the political world to accept a strong blow. However, we cannot deny the reality that the exercise of parliamentary duties takes place in a conflictual social and political environment. In these circumstances, the Member is exposed to all kinds of pressures to act favorably or hostilely in one or the other direction. The purely political and functional nature of the parliamentary immunity and of the Member's impunity is therefore obvious. This is not a personal privilege for the Member, but an institutional guarantee of the smooth functioning of parliamentaryism and the democratic principle. That is why it is necessary to further ensure that the Member is assured, by introducing a provision which must be geared towards the extremism of the political wretched by the persecution of MPs. At the same time, however, it must also discourage the circumvention of the institution. In this context, I believe that the proposal for the revision of Article 62, tabled by the New Democracy, is being initiated. More specifically, we are proposing the strictening of the institution of immunity referred to in Article 62, with a provision designed not to undermine the impunity of Members and to offer immunity as a shield to avoid conceived of their judicial prosecution. On the contrary, we shield the parliamentary and political action and expression of the Member from malicious persecution. We are also doing this by expressing our support for the Constitution that no immunity can be provided with what is not related to it, as Parliament, otherwise, is obliged to waive immunity. We believe that the spirit with which the New Democracy proposes the revision of Article 62 responds to the Greek people's request, but in fact also to the experience gained by Members and colleagues in the Greek Parliament. I would like to say that I listen with great interest to the proposal of the Change Movement - and I say it, because I have listened to you earlier, Mr Loverdos - which I think is, in essence, the same reading on the other hand. For Article 86 now. The second revised provision, which relates to the honour of the political world and its prestige, is that of Article 86. The great question of modern representative democracy is to defend its prestige, credibility and capacity for contact with society and the people, namely, essentially to defend politics. The main demand, therefore, is that we stop surrounding the country's political world with a allegedly dark presumption of guilt for a alleged violation of corruption behaviour. Civilian staff and democratic citizens must be protected against communication, I would say, a system which is often defamatory, equitable, unfair and does not respect the rules of the rule of law, rules which must, above all, apply to the criminal proceedings, but, in particular, to the criminal proceedings. The provisions of Article 86, if we want to be honest, would all like to see that they do not exist. That's the truth, and I think that's what we'd all agree on. Or at least living in a parliamentary society, we would hope that we never had to implement them. This is the other version. Because we are actually applying them as a law which, for a moment, one would say, in the context of the parliamentary culture, has to respond to many critical issues. It takes essentially for a moment of anomaly. This anomaly also exists if a former Minister and Prime Minister are rightly referred to, as he did commit the offences for which he is accused, but above all, when a case is resurrected for the purpose of political instability, political feasibility, opposition feasibility. And I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because the climate from developments in the NOVARTIS case, I think it is still heavy. And the truth is that an existing economic scandal has, in our view, changed to a vehicle of disembodiment, depreciation and reference of political opponents. This has also been demonstrated by the developments to date. This was a political behaviour that divided the Greek people, regressed political customs and I think it is still afflicting our political life. But the prehistoric history of our institution gives us a number of examples which, through Article 86 and the law on the responsibility of ministers, attempted political dissatisfaction through the criminalisation of politics. So if we want to be honest, Article 86 of the Constitution is the stone for the credibility of the political world itself. That is why, in my view, two things must be ensured: on the one hand, there must be no immunity to the immunity of politicians, but at the same time, at the same time, the political should not be handed over to the political opponents. This is where we need to find the gold incision. Because, although it is a popular requirement for political life to be transparent and for the punishment of illegal politicians to be guaranteed, it cannot be done at the same time as a result of political purposes, nor can it be found in the logic of the correlation between the parliamentary forces that participate in the Greek Parliament, because this is a reality too. On the contrary, it must be a product of sober, objective thought and analysis and the weighting of criminal data. If we find this balance, we will have given a great deal of service to modern democracy and to the people's relationship with what is called politics today. By adopting the relevant provisions in the Revision of the Constitution, we are therefore giving precisely the examinations in this direction. This is also the aim of the amendment proposed by the New Democracy, as part of Article 86 of the Constitution, to eliminate the only black point in this process which is the short deadline for the limitation. Because, otherwise, the institutional framework has worked so that we do not have any references to former ministers, but also to convictions. The amortisation deadline laid down in Article 86(3) is therefore abolished by equating the Minister with the ordinary citizens in the breach of criminal offences. The new provision of Article 86 therefore avoids legal paradoxical, as is, for example, the exercise of criminal prosecution for the laundering of dirty money, not for the main offence. We've seen this before. That's the reality. At the same time, it is in line with the political choice to implement common provisions of the Criminal Code and for politicians. In this way, the House is confined to its procedural duty to examine and decide only for the purpose of conducting criminal proceedings and the fact that an investigation of the case is carried out by a natural judge. And I do not think it was necessary to incorporate the interpretative statement tabled by the colleagues of the Officerial Representation, because simply the adoption of this proposal would lead to nothing more than a constitutional patronage of the judges by legislative power and an unnecessary conflict of constitutional rules. After all, I think that on these articles the case-law of the courts has already given the interpretative directions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that this Review House should look into the future. And I am pleased that, despite the disagreements, there are also signs of convergence. I would at least like to convey to you a more general message that is convinced of the current Prime Minister and of the government that the government's majority is not being legislated today. Parliament as a whole sets out the conditions of operation of the constitution, because the Constitution is not just about the current government. It is also about the day after tomorrow, and it is about the day after tomorrow. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we will attach the special importance that corresponds to the importance of the specific articles that we are discussing. And we will achieve this if we ensure and are conscientiously able to regulate with as wide a majority as possible, so that the image of the provisions reflects all the social forces and that Parliament's institutional authority is taken up in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We are now entering the special rapporteurs and Mr Ploris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u228	Ladies and gentlemen, I will deal with Article 62 and Article 86(3) and, in fact, with the interpretative provision proposed by the SYRIZA. Let's start with Article 62. The New Democracy, a majority, comes and suggests the following: within Article 62, that the subparagraph must be adopted by the House, provided that the request by the public prosecutor relates to an offence which is not linked to the performance of the duties or to the political activity of the Member. What's the reality? In my view, Article 62 if it were applied as spirit was, we would never have had any problem at all. Here too there is an injustice, because in the first phase of post-multipleism there has been an abuse in Article 62, but I think that in recent years there has been some attention. And there's a hypocrisy, I'll come to the smaller parties, the Greek Solution and the Mera25. What's hypocrisy? While very good here the argument was put forward that there should be no more protection of the MP, the day before yesterday we voted in the Committee on Ethics and you of Merra25 voted not to lift immunity to a Member, on a matter that was in his duties as mayor, and the Greek Solution respectively. So while the spirit of Article 62, as it was, gave us the opportunity and finally, because the Member present himself has asked for his immunity to be lifted, you two parties have not voted and you are coming here and say that an abuse of Article 62 is taking place. Article 62 was abused precisely because we did not have the courage to implement it. And what does the majority come to do now? That problem that is going to solve. Because we now go to a Parliament's obligation to give permission when the offence is not related to parliamentary duties. There is also a broader term 'political activity' - take note, however - of the Member again. We are not talking about the general political activity that everyone can have with any role. We are confined to the Member. It is a provision that we believe will be accepted. Let's go to Article 86 now. In Article 86 of the Constitution there is a debate on whether or not the House should be empowered to do so. And if we wanted to discuss this today, it is meaningless, because the House proposed that we should only change Article 86(3), so any theoretical approach, if and since there should be a special body to prosecute or be directly in regular justice, it is not of particular importance. It is of particular importance, on the basis of the proposal that is in place, to see how we can change it. So New Democracy is coming here - and what the Prime Minister did in the 2004 Review by 2008, but unfortunately he was unable to gather the votes, because the first to go to review Article 86 was Kyriakos Mitsotakis - while the votes were not gathered and he says this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u229	We were on the same team.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u230	And Andrew Loverdos in the same group of MPs was. No signatures were collected. By the way, SYRIZA didn't support this effort. What are we talking about? The big problem was the amortization deadline. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, we must be honest. It is problematic, and the total abolition, which we are right to come here and propose, because I am shaking the idea of having responsible ministers to tell you, 'I am not going to do anything, because I am sick', because that was the spirit of Article 86. One did not put the amortisation deadline on the logic that he wanted to cover corruption or anything, he had been put into a security of the Minister that he would not be in the normal timeframe. But it turns out that it was wrong for this privileged treatment that the Minister had. And we are the first majority to come here and this privilege that the ministers have to abolish. So, by abolishing this privilege, in fact and without any amortisation deadline, we shall go to the regular citations of the Common Criminal Law on all the felonies that may be committed by the ministers in their duties. And finally, there will be no such reproach in the political body that we come and legislate in favour of the Ministers. So here comes a great deal of talk about what SYRIZA has brought and is trying to present as a window to the clearance. Listen here, because we are not yesterday, ladies and gentlemen: former Prime Minister Tsipras, yesterday at 'OPEN', came out and said he would ask for names on whom to benefit from the provisions. And when did he say that, ladies and gentlemen? When the decisions on the 'SIEMENS' came out! Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, did you hear? Of the fifty-four people accused of being ‘SIEMENS’, twenty-seven were acquitted. Did you find out why they were acquitted? Because some in July voted and changed active bribery from a felony to a flood. And there was a limitation. He asked Mr. Tsipras to know names. To take the newspaper and read who the offences were filed at the “SIEMENS”. I, too, respect personal data and I will not say them, because the one name that has been filed you have said so many times from this Chamber. And while you were saying about that name, "He left, he did, he wouldn't be tried," it was time for him to be tried and his offense was filed for active bribery. So, imagine now that we've come into your senses and said, "Why did this provision come in? Who did he want to favour?’ But you want names, while you are talking about theoretical names, 'which may be from an unrelated provision', because it has been said by many that a particular individual is favoured by Mr. Tsiaras's unrelated provision, it has to do with the commitment of the principle. You guys really have names. Get on the internet and see "dismissal of criminal prosecution due to limitations", "dismissal of criminal prosecution due to limitations" and then consider who they voted here in July. And now the order is back, but this provision is not working. So the privilege of purity, in that they're corrupted here, and we're clean, there's no. And if there was, you should go and meet those who celebrate now because they were acquitted by limitations and make announcements. And they certainly feel the security of SYRIZA's criminal law. So you come over here, who have done this, tell us that with this interpretative provision you will include all the cases that exist in the past. First of all - with all due respect - Mr Katrugale, you said here - 'Let someone go up to support if the bribery is in the duties of the Minister'. That's not to be supported by one of us here. It is the consistent case-law from before, by Andreas Papandreou - Andreas Papandreou was tried for bribery and was acquitted - until the last piece we have in this particular case, which is in the case of Aki Chohatzopoulos. It's a well-established case law. And why is this case-law configured, Mr. President? Because in the objective situation of the crime of bribery it is that the person who is being bribed should have the status of a staff member. Is it not in the duties of what you say, 'is it in the duty of the Minister to take them'? Oh, no! However, it is by itself that he must be an employee. That is what the Special Court tells us in all cases which it has examined and which is why it is considered to be the hard core of the Minister's duties. But what did Mr. Katrugalos prevent you from telling you? I will ask: is it in the office of the Minister to harm the state in order to favor someone with deceit? That's infidelity. Did you see how good the question sounds? One says: 'Is it the Minister's duty to take it?'. Apparently, no. I ask: is it in the duty of the Minister to harm the public in his knowledge to win a businessman? That's infidelity. But there is no one here to say that infidelity is not in the hard core of Article 86. So, in fact, if we wanted to change it, we should explicitly say that this offence for reasons of interest does not fall within us. But can this be retrospective? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need another minute, Mr. President. It can't be. And here is our main disagreement, because when you have a well-established case law that tells you about corruption and other offences - but because we are all talking about corruption - do we now think that we are serious supporters of the Criminal Law that we will make a genuine interpretation of the 1975 Constitution? The case-law from 1975 until now has been established that this offence falls within the scope of the Treaty. And because we are going to make an authentic interpretation in 2019, will it be considered that this does not have the features of changing a substantial provision that falls within the ban on retroactiveness? Indeed, in addition to the direct infringement of Article 7 of the Constitution, there is neither a criminal offence nor a criminal offence that is in force before the end of the act, there is also a direct infringement of the European Convention on Human Rights, the UN International Covenant on Article 15 and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Article 11(2), as well as of the established case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which says that only a case-law which has been established for years cannot be changed to the detriment of the individual. So, it's a communal firework. And why is it communal? Because in fact you know that it cannot be applied. And what further, ladies and gentlemen? And that's the most inappropriate thing going on in the case. If what Mr Katrugalos says here, there is this danger, it means that you have outlawed, in your knowledge, when making a preliminary inquiry, you said that bribery is not in the duties and returned the file back. And you say that it may have been illegal by the public prosecutor, if it is not on duty, because otherwise there would be no problem. We therefore allow the case-law to be formulated. And the case law, ladies and gentlemen, is configured. Any interpretative provision, as it is considered to be a change in the substantive provision, could apply from now on. But from now on it makes no difference, because once the privileges and limitations have been abolished, the right time-limit - but to say'recitals' to understand us - these are not a matter of reflection. In the theory alone, Mr Katrugalos's position on the crime has been supported, and not on the main theory. And here, Professor, you are unfair when you say "who seriously will come to support...". So the judges who supported this, thirty years of modern case law - and after Mrs Kastanidou and other professors had written that it should not be true - did not know how to support it? Oh, no. But they knew that, unfortunately, this offence we are talking about because it has the objective status, the term of the staff member, is necessarily linked to tasks, in the sense not that it is his job to 'take them', but in the sense that there is no offence when he is not an official, and also to infidelity, respectively, there is no offence if he is not an official who will be harming the public. So we think that the changes that we have made are the best possible, both to ensure the Member - but only in the exercise of his parliamentary work - and to ensure that there is no privileged treatment of the Minister. From there on, the proposal that is being made, other than that it is manifestly communication, will have no significance, even if we voted on it in practice, because a first-year student in law would understand that this is a change in the basic rule of law and therefore cannot have retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-three students and students and five educational attendants from the 18th Larissa Municipal School. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u233	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u234	For what has happened before, Mr President. Just a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u235	What is the matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u236	In the procedure that has been followed today, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u237	Will you speak on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u238	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u239	So let's hear if it's on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u240	I won't need a minute. I just want it to be recorded in the Minutes. I have before me the Rules of Procedure of the House. And I'm going to talk because I really want you to believe it, and I'm sorry about what happened today. At a time when, as the main rapporteur, I am at the Step of the House, and I am speaking, I have truly been very surprised to accept an inappropriate attack by the main rapporteur of the New Democracy. However, what made me most unhappy, Mr President, with all due respect, because you are a very experienced legal and even more experienced politician, is that you did not protect me under the Rules of Procedure of this House. I would also like you to know that, as a party and I personally have strongly protested to the President of Parliament, Mr Tassoukas for what has happened today. I read from the Rules of Procedure: 'Inappropriate conduct in accordance with the preceding paragraph is to prevent the conduct of sittings or debates and to disrupt order to them or to discontinue speakers without their consent and the President's permission'. And Mr. Javarras said today, "Get out of here", "are you not a democrat", "go, where did you come from?" I was forced to answer that question at some point. And at the time when I respond to the unprovoked attack and interruption that I am subjected to by the main rapporteur of the New Democracy, instead of giving me the opportunity to answer, it became unprecedented: you have closed my microphone. While the switch had an open microphone, you shut me up - I don't know how the system works - the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u241	I didn't turn you off your microphone, Mr. Comrade. I said to the plural: I'll turn off the microphones.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u242	My mic's closed. My colleague testifies to that on the right there. And I'm a fiddle, Mr. President, and I'm turning around and looking at him...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u243	Here's the thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, with all due respect, you have booked me...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u245	When there's a rivalry...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u246	I didn't cause her. I did not address myself on personal grounds. I did not mention a name, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u247	He didn't have the Bureau's intention of...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u248	I am not talking about your intention, Mr President, but about a bad moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u249	I just wanted to stop the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u250	I say that you have had a bad moment, and I want it to be recorded in the Minutes, because I did not address anyone by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u251	I said I'd have to shut down the microphones in the light of the fact that this conflict was going to take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u252	And you closed my microphone and not the interrupter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u253	In any case, what is the problem? You had all the comfort and I gave you seven more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u254	Mr President, the problem is that the rapporteur of the New Democracy continued with an open microphone saying his discomfort and interrupting me, and I had my microphone closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u255	He pressed the wrong button, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u256	Oh, it was the wrong button! Listen to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Comrade, you had all the time and I gave you seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u258	I have not complained about the time, Mr President, but about the procedure. We believe that today you have had a bad time and you have done us an awkward job. I didn't address anyone by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u259	But I didn't turn you off your microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u260	You hung up on me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u261	I said I'm gonna have to shut down the microphones.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u262	You've turned off my microphone, Mr. President. My colleague, who sits on the right there, closed my microphone. Looks like a video. I talk and I don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u263	I said it as a possibility. I didn't turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u264	So you gave a voice order. I just wanted to table the Rules of Procedure in the Minutes. They interrupted me. I didn't interrupt or refer to anyone by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Colleague, I may have said it, but the microphone didn't turn off. I said it as a chance to stop the conflict. You can see it in the Minutes. You're not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u266	I'll produce the video to see it, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Lappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, today the debate was - and I expected it - at a high level from all the rapporteurs no doubt. He dealt with an issue which is the thorn - literally - in the eyes of the political system over time. Mr President, the current theme of Articles 62 and 86 is a major political issue, because it is directly related to the functioning of the society and also because it is related to the immediate and urgent need, which we have been telling the committee, the political system itself and its parties, to protect their honour and credibility. There is no day, two days, a conference and a letter referring to the price and credibility of the political system, over the last twenty or thirty years that it has not seen that it has proved to be in Nadir. There have also been measurements of public opinion, the percentages of which should not be mentioned because it is really a disgrace to the political system. What we must say and what we must do is slowly recover some of this price and credibility. This is what the rapporteurs of the two major parties - and Mr Loverdos, I think - said next time that he is in a two-way divestment. On the one hand, we have a claim for equality and equality - with its analogous version, of course, Article 25 - against the law, that is, equal treatment, and on the other hand with an institutional guarantee - we will see to what extent - which defends political persons against unfair persecution and complaints. In order to fully understand this situation, Mr Katrugalos said in a speech to the committee, the two authorities, a claim for equality, protection from the other as an institutional guarantee, we must also understand another internal tension between the political and criminal features of the criminal provisions. This has been thoroughly developed by himself. I would point out the conclusion that the Article 86 procedure - and 62 I will say - is not primarily criminal in nature, it is primarily a policy of criminal nature. I'm going to tell you what I have to say. At today's Parliament's meeting we could put the title 'Re-establishment of the honor and credibility of the political system and the parties' and the title 'Method of returning citizens and especially young people in political life'. Mr President, I will only say a few things about Article 62 because we are converging in one way or another almost all the political forces. In committee - and we reiterated this today by our rapporteur - we said that in Article 62, the phrase 'for offences directly related to the exercise of his duties' must come in because it is precisely the term 'in the exercise of his duties' which entered Article 86, which refers to duties under the Constitution or special criminal law 3126/2003 that states that phrase. The political system and Parliament must make this delimitation at its present top moment, what is it in the performance of their duties and what is not in the performance of their duties, regardless of their duties or on the occasion of their duties. I'm starting with parliamentary immunity. I will repeat what I said in committee. There is a general impression and I would say that society and citizens are convinced that the provision of Article 62 - I am not saying legally, it is for the bell of the unusable - but it has been applied in a scandalous way. I'm not saying it. It has been said by the strongest legal pennies and legal voices in the country: Stathopoulos, Tsakakis, everyone. I only mention something Michalis Stathopoulos had said in an unsuspecting time in 2005: "In turbulent times in the history of fanaticism, the institution of parliamentary immunity had some justification. Political passions led or threatened to lead to unreliable criminal persecution of MPs, with the aim of neutralising them from the political opponent for a long time, i.e. until justice is decided." Another effective way then, he says, didn't exist. However, if we accept that our political customs and political system in general has progressed and obtained insurance and institutional safeguards for protection, what is there to be? And it emphasises that it is well known that the procedure for Parliament's permission to prosecute does not work, but maintains the impunity. This is the impression of the Greek people who, according to a survey by a newspaper, said exactly the same that the provision of Article 62 leads to the impunity and does not act as an institutional guarantee for the state. And here's something to say. Lawyers understand it and accept it and take it here in their word. Rule 82, from an institutional point of view, is not a privilege to the Member, but is a security guarantee test for the political system and for the rule of law, that is, for the city. So whoever has in mind that it is a privilege in favour of the MP, is the wrong crypt and has to forget it. Also, at the same time, Mr Tsakakis, in 2007, I think, said this. "The long-standing practice of the Greek Parliament to provide immunity to its members, in order to avoid any criminal persecution, is an institutional scandal for our democracy". Not for the institution, but for democracy. He mentions cases in Greece for which immunity has not been lifted, for road traffic violations, the extradition of an entire block of uncovered cheques, negligent homicide because a Member of Parliament had a good time - and he had his right - and he was involved in a car accident and was accused of negligence and did not have the immunity. What a colleague from the smaller parties said about the seven hundred cases that only five were lifted, and of these four they asked themselves, only for the period 1974-2000. From 2000 onwards, it is a fact that this percentage is starting to drastically change in favour of the spirit of the provision and that is a good thing. I'm just mentioning it. The European Court of Justice has, of course, spoken about this and the state and Parliament must take it seriously today in order to make a substantial change to Article 62 so that it does not become a thorn. So, in this a little - we are all very much in agreement. Let's go now, Mr President, to Rule 86. Mr Ploris said before that the issue of bribery has been resolved at a legal level and is not included in the duties of the Minister. This is indeed in two, three judgments in caselaw. But when? When the judge and the judiciary or court or court hearings had at the same time the offence of money laundering from criminal activities, there was a felony with a threat of a 15-year sentence. And I'd say he's less involved in bribery, having had a crime, arresting the perpetrator. But when it only has bribery as a charge against a political person, I think we should soon expect a change of case law in favour of prosecuting corruption rather than dealing with it as a ministerial offence. And why am I saying that? I'll tell you right away. And I want to testify in the Minutes. The work - a monument to the point of view I am telling you is the book by Mrs Kastanidou and Mr Margaret, who have said, in an unsuspecting time, that bribery cannot have anything to do with the Member's oath of oath of honouring the Constitution and the laws of the state and being strictly up to the action of his duties. Never. I'm putting the conclusion to the Minutes from the book. It's important. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Who else did they say? Not to say that we are only talking about theory and jurisprudence. Mr Kastanides, speaking here, when the law was being discussed, Mr.3126/2003, said that the provision of Article 86 is a scandalous provision and it is always a demand to change it. I am not here to honour him, because the book that I proposed to you by his wife is, of course, Symeonidou-Castanidou, about what I'm saying to you. Article 1 speaks of what offences are being prosecuted in the performance of its duties. Now we propose an interpretative statement. The interpretative statement I heard Mr Loverdo the other day, and many colleagues today, say that it is a provision of a criminal character with retroactive effect. There is no falseer and there is no greater legal error. The interpretative statement we are proposing is an authentic interpretation of laws, in accordance with Article 77 of the Constitution, which reads: "The authentic interpretation of the laws belongs to the legislative function". It is neither a law of interpretation nor a major criminal provision of a retroactive nature. It's not that kind of thing. The paragraph we add is an authentic interpretation of an existing provision, which says what offences are 'in the exercise'. That's what he interprets. So simple, so clear. And it is according to the explicit provision of the Constitution. It is not a political choice from SYRIZA to harm someone or oppose any other party's interests. Our rapporteur has said so too. I repeat that, too, so that it can be made clear. It is an authentic interpretation of an existing provision, Article 86(1), and it is not a criminal provision with retroactive effect. One is that. Secondly, Mr President. Mr Katrugalos said before, and I would like to stress this in particular, that the great mistake of the political system was made with the 2001 review. And here's what the rapporteur said in plenary. Another thing to tell the House and another thing to legislate. The rapporteur then said: "The great question of modern representative democracy is to defend the political system, its prestige, its credibility, its ability to contact society and the people, that is to say, to defend politics. We do not defend politics when we are easily, in order to be sympathetic, rush to adopt all the hints and implied to the detriment of politicians." Eighteen years after that Review of 2001, the results shatter this account and that of Mr Venizelos, which I would say was the dominant of the whole political system. It's crashing. See the whole route and what the Greek people think and what the legal community is saying today about the choice made by the majority to revise the 2001 Constitution. Her honor and credibility was supposed to be protected by a majority. And what did he do with it? She crushed it, undermined it, threw it in the nuthouse, so we all say it's all gone down in the Nadir. And we need to regain them. Another thing which I would like to note here, to friends and Mr Stylianides, is this. Today your proposal on the whole and what we are proposing for Article 86, your proposal, Mr Stylianides, is behind the proposal of the New Democracy of 2004, because it does not match the proposal you made in 2014. Because today you are saying that you are simply abolishing the amortisation deadline to the ministers' offences, while in 2014 you add something else. You said what we are saying today, that you are making a reason for offences that do not exist in the exercise of tasks. You don't repeat it. And that is very important in constitutional terms and political importance and gravity. You don't. But, I would say to you, since SYRIZA's interpretative statement actually restores what you said in 2014, why don't you vote for it? You do not vote for it because, as our leader said, you feel an incriminance and a fear that your officials who have been ministers may be caught in the'stick' of criminal justice. I think this is a timely argument you have, if you want to see in the long term a serious strategy for the constitutional letter and spirit, adopt the interpretative statement, because it is basically what you have done in 2014 with your proposal and do not repeat it. And that's very important. So that is not the case that has been said here. I heard before, Mr President, that Mr Loverdos said something very important that I will comment on and conclude. He said that the provisions on the responsibility of Ministers have overrun political features. If that is the case, why don't you vote for the provision of the interpretative statement, since they have political characteristics? So how three days ago did he say here that the interpretative statement essentially in sperm contains no spirit and a letter of criminal order? Either this provision has political characteristics or it has criminal characteristics. It is not a criminal provision, Mr President. It is above all a policy, because it deals with the policy of Parliament and is doing well. I told you before - and I must stress - that this interpretative statement will save something from the honour and credibility of the political system. Do you know why? For all the major cases which Greek criminal justice has investigated as scandals, with the exception of Koskotta - Tsohatzopoulos, Papantoniou, "NOVARTIS", "SIEMENS" - unfortunately the investigation was launched after a previous investigation of foreign prosecution authorities, judiciary authorities of foreign states, such as Germany in the case of Mr Tsohatzopoulos. For the other two U.S. Does that honor us as a political system? I would say that in part it does not honour Greek justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Lappa, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u270	I shall conclude, Mr President. I describe this debate on Articles 86 and 62 as a debate on politics, but at the same time also on justice. Because we are talking about justice, I will tell you what I think is justice and I close, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Lappa, please finish because you've been talking for 15 minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, I shall conclude. I forgot to say one more thing. Because it was mentioned before Mr Ploiros that there was no judicial source to say that bribery does not belong to the duties of the ministers - I said it before, but you did not hear me, you spoke to the Minister next to the seats, Mr Ploiros - I say to you that in all cases that the case-law found that bribery did not belong to ministerial duties, there was at the same time the offence of money laundering, i.e. money laundering. And because justice has had the "loofing", which is the most serious crime, you know that it has not been particularly involved in bribery. That's what I'm telling you. Regarding the 2014 Volunteer on Papaconstantinou, read the recommendation of a minority, President-in-Office Koutromanos, where he says that the provision as it was in force and paragraph 3 conflicts with dozens of other non-revised provisions of the Constitution. And he said it was unacceptable and it must not be implemented. I shall close with one phrase, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u273	Close, Mr. Lappa, because we've been in the sixteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u274	I'll be done. Because I said it was justice and politics, I'm going to invoke a phrase of an idealist, liberal, a huge personality, Max Webber. In a great lecture given in 1919 he gave his students in Munich "Policy as a call and profession" he said: "What should a man have in place to allow him to put his hand on the "heavens of the wheel" of history? Three things: Passion, sense of responsibility and measure. And what should a politician not have to put his hand on the "wheel" of history? Subjectivity and irresponsibility." So let's take it into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. Lappa. I would ask Mrs Rapt to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour to me that today's suggestion to Parliament in a top institutional function of the state, the constitutional revision. Today we are discussing the thematic section referred to in Articles 54 and 56 concerning the vote of Greek voters abroad, the electoral system and the blockades of Members' election. The provisions of Articles 54 and 56 were considered revised in the previous House by a marginal majority. But let us begin, with the sensitive issue, the national issue of the vote of Greek voters abroad, who have been very concerned about public debate lately. It was a pre-election commitment by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the possibility for Greek voters who live abroad, to finally be able to vote from their place of residence in the next elections. As we all understand, this is a self-evident obligation for the Greek state to our compatriots, who live and work outside Greece, to facilitate the exercise of their electoral right, as is the case with the vast majority of the countries of the Council of Europe, who have fulfilled this self-evident obligation to their citizens. Of the forty-seven countries only seven have not solved this issue to date and one of them, unfortunately, is Greece. It is an obligation, although it had been legally foreseen both in the 1975 Constitution, and we are talking about almost half a century ago - as well as in the 2001 Constitution, it has not so far been implemented by our political system. So basically we are talking about our brothers, who because of the recent economic crisis have suffered an informal, but real persecution from their country, and who, not only cannot return, but are not even involved in shaping the election result. Our resignation has repeatedly submitted bills, as well as proposals for legislation to introduce the vote of Greek voters abroad and, indeed, already since 2009 on the Minister of Prokopi Pavlopoulou as Minister of Foreign Affairs. However, the relevant bill that was tabled at the time was not voted for by the necessary number of permanent MPs, by any of the opposition officers. Subsequently, both in 2016 and 2017, our prolongation has tabled proposals for legislation, but they have not been accepted by the previous parliamentary majority. Finally, we also tabled a specific proposal in the previous House for the revision of Article 51 of the Constitution to allow Greeks who live abroad only for party or party coalition and to be elected MPs representing Greek foreignism to vote. However, this proposal was also rejected, unfortunately, by the previous parliamentary majority and therefore the provision of Article 51 was not considered to be a reviewer. But it is now time for Greek foreign voters to exercise this self-evident right and to vote for the first time at their place of residence. For this reason, the Prime Minister has opened intensive consultations with all the political leaders, who have come to a draft law, which we seek to vote on if possible, not only by the two parliamentarians, as the Constitution defines, but also unanimously by the three hundred, thus putting our party purposes aside, for the benefit of all Greek citizens. In the intergroup committee set up to this end, a four-axle basis has been established. The first axis is the equal vote of the Greeks who live abroad with the voters inside. In other words, the vote of the Greeks abroad is also counted on the final election result, like all other Greek citizens. The second axis is Greek foreigners voting for the party's vote of State that they wish to vote on. Furthermore, to increase the number of MPs from twelve to fifteen, so that the parties, if they so wish, can place themselves in election posts from abroad. The third axis is the vote to take place in the local embassies and consulates of Greece or but certain voting shops, where the self-representation of Greeks abroad will be required at the points where the polls will be based. Here, of course, I would like to point out - the obvious thing about us - that the New Democracy's position has been and remains the possibility of broad use of the letter of vote, in order to facilitate voters who live in remote areas. Sadly, though, because some have disagreed, and in order to find a well-considered solution to this issue, the Prime Minister retreated in his proposal to use a letter of vote, ending in the solution to the voting process only at consulates or designated stores. Finally, the fourth axis concerns the thorny subject of the number of foreign voters on the special electoral lists. There it was agreed that those Greeks would be able to vote for less than thirty-five years, provided that within this period there are only two years left in Greece. Just then, within the framework of this intergroup agreement and on the basis of the relevant governmental commitment, our proposal, before you, has been tabled for the revision of Article 54, with the addition of paragraph 4. On this proposal I would like to make a few points. It is clear that this paragraph would be more appropriate to add to Article 51 of the Constitution. However, as I said, unfortunately, this was not considered revised by the previous House, and so it would not be possible to add it now. The proposed amendment is also made as a more specific and therefore a predominant provision, including in the corpus of the Constitution the specific conditions for facilitating the exercise of that right, i.e. not restrictive. This is done in order to avoid any possible doubt as to the constitutionality of these conditions. Finally, the issues of the compulsory or non-compulsory inclusion of candidates from Hellenism in the state lists and, secondly, the appointment of one or more constituencies from democratic Hellenism are now, with our proposal, a clear and strong constitutional base. However, the discretionary power of the joint legislator as to whether to adopt them is also omitted. It is clear that the New Democracy Government will follow the relevant legislative initiative which will be tabling the decisions of the Intergroup, always awaiting a spirit of consensus and consensus with all parties. This is what we are doing to date in both difficult and easy, and we will continue to do so as a core of our party's power is to stick to national unity and national understanding, away from divisive logic. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the compromises needed to establish a common cross-party approach, today's debate shows that a great step forward has already been taken and is a bet on all of us in the Greek Parliament, the relevant legislative initiative of the Government to vote unanimously, so that we do not permanently send the image of a toxic confrontation that distorts citizens from participation in politics. With regard to the other proposals for revision and in relation to Rule 54(1) on the proportional electoral system, we must state briefly the following: As has been detailed in the debate in the committee responsible, our prolongation disagrees with the constitutionalisation of the compulsory application of a proportional electoral system in the parliamentary elections. In our view, there should not be this excessive limitation of the common legislator on the choice of a electoral system. In addition, this prevalence of the rhetoric of the Anti-Population Officer - this matter would lead to unregulatedness - cannot be left to a party that receives more than 40% of the voters to govern itself and to need permanent minions, by providing consideration and subjecting to extortion. We have proved as an exception that when national circumstances called it into the crisis, we have not hesitated to cooperate with forces of traditional opponents, such as PASOK and DIMAR, in order to get the country out of the war, in response to our historical responsibility. But at no time today can we consent to the constitutionalisation of chaos. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Let us now refer to the SYRIZA's proposed revision of paragraph 5 in Article 56 on the blockades of election. A seemingly attractive proposal, which introduces a temporary blockage of election for the next parliamentary elections immediately to be held by Members. However, this is true for three consecutive parliamentary periods and, indeed, for at least one thirty-two months. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obviously not for us to re-election the Member for the development of arrogance and nepotism. We know that. It has been seen on several occasions in young, first elected Members. But, in essence, if we look at the last parliamentary periods, none other than the last 2015-2019, is more than thirty-two months. So who, in action, is involved in this proposal? I think of anyone. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This is therefore a provision without a practical or legal or political objection. It's a substance-free firework. However, this cannot be a documented review proposal, given the strictness of the Constitution and therefore cannot be accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that our consensual proposal has clearly emerged in the matter of Greeks voting outside the State and the absence of the need to revise Articles 54 and 56, on the basis of the other proposals made by the Civilian Opposition Officer. Today, I believe that we will do the widest possible consensus on the first national matter. I would like to stress that this is to the credit of the House. We must all preserve the role of the Parliament, the institutions and above all of the Constitution itself, demonstrating to the Greek people and especially to our fellow citizens who live and work abroad, constitutional responsibility. Today they have their eyes on us and they expect us to give them the opportunity, after more than forty-five years, to exercise this top democratic right and finally vote in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mrs. Rapt. Mr Ragus, a special rapporteur for SYRIZA, will be followed by Mr Styliannides, a Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u278	Thank you very much, Mr President. In a few days' time, ladies and gentlemen, the first memorial constitutional revision will have passed in history. When the historian of the future receives it, I personally have no certainty that he will judge the party system - at least the majority that will shape the final choices - with particular decency. And this is because a country, a society, a party system that has experienced this very painful experience since 2009-2010, will seem incomprehensible how in the first Review of the Charter governing the functioning of the state, society and the political system this painful experience has not been used in a positive way, it has not come to the conclusions that had to come about what was finally a role to come to a country in a due economic cycle in a time of bankruptcy and bankruptcy in 2009. A lot has been said about the role of the parties, about the role of the people, the political leaders of post-multipleism. They have only been discussed about the crucial role that some of the causes have played, which one might characterize as systemic causes. One of these systemic causes is no doubt that it was the enhanced analogue. The enhanced ratio established and essentially ran the entire duration from 1974 to 2009 played a decisive role in reaching bankruptcy, because it is its logic, it is its philosophy, it is the engineering that the enhanced proportion has within it. In other words, if the country went bankrupt in 2009 - which went bankrupt - and if it was led to bankruptcy, and the Greek people, to the painful experience of the memorials, that was not with the electoral system of mere analogy, because we had not just proportionally since 1974. We had a reinforced analogy. I will say something for those who say that the simple analogue cannot exist in Greece, because there is no tradition of consensus in Greece. But we don't have a consensus, because we just had the enhanced analogue that killed her, she was doing it in a ruthless way all the time. Difference of the same argument was until 2009, how would simple analogue function in a country that has no culture of government cooperation? And from 2009 until recently, we had co-operation governments that, in fact, formed all times with a heterogeneous ideological and political mark, to manage the most difficult circumstances of post-mortem, which were the circumstances of the memorandum. When the debate leaves, and from this argument, goes to the well-known and ordinary 'but the people, the economy, the citizens, the productive forces want political stability'. That's not accurate. Citizens, productive forces, the economy does not want political stability without legislative stability. They first want stability. And legislative stability in Greece since 1974 has not only changed because the governments, the parties, the New Democracy, the PASOK, and then the parties that have been ruling by SYRIZA, and again today the New Democracy, but why we did not have legislative stability even while the same party was ruling. As long as we remember every time the natural persons changed to the political leadership of the governments, that is, the ministers. In any case, there is international experience. Anyone who is well-being, who is sober and who at last wants to see the good of the country, beyond easy, ideological bumpers, sees that in economies of mighty, productive systems that grow from the good to the best, the German, the Dutch, the Israeli, the Cypriots have shown legislative power with simple analogue or purely proportional systems, as the Netherlands has. And there one sees that economies and societies go from good to better, as they define, by a majority, the good and the best for themselves each time. Therefore, the debate on the introduction of a mere analogous to the Constitution is a very critical, very serious debate, which is actually taking place in terms of overcoming the basic systemic causes that have led us to bankruptcy, and therefore, the refusal even to enter into the debate on the introduction of the simple proportionality and its consolidation within the Constitution is objectively objective and, in fact, a attitude that does not help the present and future of Greece does not help Greece's progress. Before I speak on the article, on the facilitation of voters living outside the territory and following on from what you have heard at the outset by our general rapporteur, Mr Katrugalo, I would ask you very much to make two points. Two issues are coming back on which it is good - at least since the debate is taking place here in Parliament and among people who, if anything, know about these things - start to a little lessen their use as arguments, since they have nothing to do with reality. Since then, when this public debate has started to facilitate, for this infamous, famous law, for the equality of vote, there is a wide-ranging debate and sometimes you hear about the equivalence, equality, equality and feeling, and you say: 'Rey, my child, what is going on here? What we may propose, we think, etc. Is it possible in a country, in an electoral system, which has established the rate of vote, to go to dismantle it all?" Well, don't make it so easy to use these, out of reality, arguments. Why, ladies and gentlemen, should we go to this House now and talk to the citizens of Chania and say to them that we are transparent defenders of the vote and say to us: 'We too, children, why did we get SYRIZA, the second Republic and SYRIZA, and in New Democracy, we sent a Member while in New Democracy the electoral law gave three Members? What rate of vote are you saying to us?’ [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Go on, you guys talk about the same vote, talk to the inhabitants of Chania now, older than Evros, and other laws. In Chania, SYRIZA came out first, there's a congressman in here. The New Democracy came out second, has three MPs. No proportional representation is not that, this is a complete distortion, a complete distortion of any concept of equivalence, equivalence and so on. Secondly, to speak of the letter vote, but why such a sensitivity in favour of the letter vote for those who live off the ground and not of similar sensitivity to those who live within the dominance? In other words, how many people from Thrace from the islands and tourists do not work in Crete? How many of those who go to exercise their electoral right on the part of the national elections puts them on the Greek party system - and the New Democracy which defends the dictatorial vote only for the non-states - to pay, leave or not, so that they do not exercise their inalienable democratic right to participate? When this public debate began, it began in a way which was splendid - I mean, to come to discuss what we are learning next week the bill on the vote on the vote of the offenders, the non-state voters - with the well-known statements made by the Prime Minister in Astoria, who told the Greeks who live there many decades ago that in the next election there is the time and time they will exercise the electoral right, which they have anyway. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] We have said from the first moment that the proposals of the New Democracy which have fortunately been withdrawn - and the New Democracy has fortunately made a radical shift from its original position - is a very bad and dangerous solution for the country. Why? For within this period of post-population, we may have had the painful ending of bankruptcy, but we had won two superior goods: the good of national unity and the good of democratic normality. And this is recognised and it is certain that it will be recognised at all times. So we said that the New Democracy proposal puts these two valuable state goods into question, because it is essentially a proposal that leads to the change of popular will. It leads to the alteration of the popular will, not because they will take part in the elections of Greeks who live abroad, but because based on the original proposal of the New Democracy to export the final election result, the country will also have voters who have no real ties with the country. And so, if we have election results in Greece, do not go away, they are 2000 respectively. The 2000 election was held for seventy thousand votes. What Greeks belonging to a majority, any majority, will accept that this result can be reversed by the vote of voters who have no real ties with the country? Why are we saying that the JRC's proposal is good, but are we saying that our proposal is the best? Because by putting and promoting the Communist Party of Greece in its true bond, it ensures, locks and locks the good of national unity and the good of democratic normality. Because no one can imagine what will happen to the country if it lives such a painful experience, if the Greek people want to take New Democracy out here and with the result that will be formed by the vote of voters who have no real connection with the country, this will be overthrown. And vice versa, want SYRIZA and come out of New Democracy, because they voted for some who have no real ties with the country. So the New Democracy has fortunately changed its position radically and left a very bad proposal. I shall close, Mr President, by saying this. In our proposal, which we also support, we believe that a bad and dangerous proposal has been tabled in this public debate, the New Democracy proposal, which has fortunately been withdrawn. A good one, which is the proposal of the Communist Party of Greece and a better one, which is ours. Why do we believe that? Firstly, because we do not limit the limits of the naturalized nation. Secondly, because we are not limiting the limits of the electorate. We do not limit the right to vote, even those who have no real ties with the country or who could be registered on the electoral lists in the future and have citizenship, and therefore also the right to vote. We do not restrict, instead safeguard and safeguard the right to vote. And this is a major issue for both Greece and the Greek Parliament and for the Greeks who live abroad. We reserve the right to vote. Why? For we can see here that, if our proposal is implemented, there will be twelve, compulsory representatives of the Greeks who live abroad. And whoever says or thinks that this is a weak one - to say so - the involvement of Greeks abroad does not tell the truth. In Italy, Prime Minister Prodi came out on the basis of the four votes given by popular Italians from Australia. Here there are parties that are currently not represented with 12 Members, but with fewer. And in any case, they will be parliamentarians, as we have repeatedly said, with full rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Ragosi, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u280	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think that the average of speech went to ten minutes, but I don't want more than a minute anyway. So, on the one hand, we have this proposal and on the other hand, we have a proposal which, if we look at it and see it formed in its final version, provides that few Greeks who live abroad will vote and will not elect their representatives as well. You have heard the Special Rapporteur of the New Democracy say: 'If the parties so wish, they will be included in the embassy lists'. In any case - and here I have closed - everything we have said about the law, about the bill, which is being prepared, is true and we have said it through our representative in the intergroup committee and on the basis of what Giorgos Katrugalos said at the beginning today. As far as the Constitution is concerned, I would like to make one final comment. What has happened today is indeed a major and serious insult to both Parliament and the Constitution and to the Greeks who live abroad and to all of us, whether we belong to the minority or to the majority. If you ask me, rhetorically, if you ask the Special Rapporteur of the New Democracy and all the rapporteurs-general, on the basis of what proposal the majority of us are discussing today, for the vote on the Rule 54(4), you will not get an answer. Because today, ladies and gentlemen, we have also lived through this: I now conclude my speech, Mrs Raptti has previously completed it, the general rapporteurs and the government and the majority have not submitted to the Greek Parliament its final opinion on Article 54(4). That goes beyond all the limits of the insult of Parliament and the Greeks abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u281	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Stylianides, has the floor now, and then Mr Triantafylides will speak from SYRIZA and then the Minister for the Interior Mr Theodorikos will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u282	And when will the Members speak, Mr President? From 12 o'clock we're here. Can we talk tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u283	And I'm twenty-six, colleague. Here, Mr. Stylianides, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u284	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to inform Mr Ragosi that our proposal for Rule 54(4) has been tabled to the Secretariat of Parliament and the committee since the first day of the debate on the vote of the relatives and on the revision of the Constitution. Whether in the circles of debates we have changed words, drafting provisions and others, this is due to the fact that we are in dialogue, that we are open to proposals from opposition, because we believe that this process must be synthetic and must send out a message of national understanding. Secondly, I should like to say that it is clear that we disagree with the constitutionalisation of the electoral law. In fact, it is an honest attitude taken by the Prime Minister, clarifying - from the Thessaloniki Report yet - that we will not touch the Constitution and not interfere with the Constitution with the electoral law. I do not think there is a clearer and more honest explanation to both the Greek people and the other political forces. I now come to the essence of a number of issues that are going to be decided on today. I'm starting with Article 62. Historically, the Member is protected against any interventions by the executive against him for reasons of feasibility. For this reason, the MP's institutional shield appears for the first time in the French Constitution of 1791, in Bonn's fundamental law in Article 46 and in the Constitution of the United States of America in Article 1(6). That is in response to some colleagues who said that they are not protected anywhere. The first thing the most mature democracies do is that. Almost all the Greek Constitutions - to see it a little historical - provided relevant provisions. From Article 56 of 1844 or Article 63 of 1864. Functionally, Article 62 protects the Member from posterior political persecution of third parties who could intentionally expose him, particularly in order to affect his independence and his freedom of action as a parliament, to serve either their own interests or their interrelated interests. That is the concept of Article 62. We protect the Member in order to protect him from the pressures and compelling of the interlocutory or other opponents who might want to manipulate him. Politics now, Article 62 aims historically to act as an institutional guarantee that reflects the supremacy of legislative power, which is the one directly democratically legitimised by the people. However, this does not, of course, mean that the Member is excluded from the general rule of equality before the law. In the new environment that is created internationally as the democratic institutions grow and grow, the reason for the absolute protection of parliament is missing. This is also reflected in the relevant judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which, recently, decided to lift parliamentary immunity on matters which were not relevant to the performance of the duties of the Member. We have three decisions: Tsalkitzis vs Greece 2006, Synglidis vs Greece 2010 and Kontova versus Italy 2003. The New Democracy therefore considers that the Members of Parliament's institutional role is adequately safeguarded in the modern environment, when parliamentary immunity concerns not all crimes, but exclusively offences committed in the performance of the duties of the Member. Of course, this assessment is carried out by the House itself, which has the experience, the knowledge to judge unreasonably whether or not it is being concealed or not, behind the persecution of a political person. This protection, in so far as it remains, responds to the populism of various extreme groups - we have experienced it in the past period - which do not often hesitate to excite Parliament, until the people themselves enter it themselves, threaten many times elected representatives of the people by slandering them and reducing their image before the world, so that they can stagger the people's confidence in the political world in a populist way and thereby push the voters to the extremes, namely the active citizens. The citizens themselves, however, must have the main reason, until the last minute and decide when and whether or not they should send a politician to his home. Our review proposal seeks to find a golden and appealing intersection between the impunity of some of the jurors of parliament on the one hand and the misdemeanor of parliamentary and democracy on the other hand, through an equitable punishment. I'm going to the next article now. Article 86 testifies to the credibility of our political system even more than Article 62, because it concerns not only a legislator, but an executive officer or an executive officer, because that is what the Minister does. It must therefore seek to strike a balance between, on the one hand, absolute and unacceptable impunity of executive policies - which undermines citizens' confidence in leadership and the morality of leadership and puts them away from the commons, offends the quality of our democracy, strengthens populism, pushs people towards the extremists - and, on the other, unjustly distorting and absolute punishment that can at times satisfy the entangled popular feeling, but takes away serious people from politics. It discourages managers from making decisions and solving problems, feeling unprotected the next day. It creates an incredible inertia in executive power that gradually leads to the destruction of the country. It identifies politics not with decisions that solve problems, but with a epidermal and ruthless communication. The dynamics of non-judgmental inertia due to fear of punishment rapidly prevents the entire hierarchy of the administration and of course, as assessed by economists, the cost of non-judgmental decisions in Greece is three times the cost of bad decisions. In all aspects of public life, speed, quality, rewarding for society, the state and the nation cease to be an assessment criterion. All this is replaced by a seasonal and prefabricated image. Anyone who decides and takes results usually pays expensive and personally the price. On the contrary, anyone who cares and does not sign, but knows to communicate around TV windows and replaces politics with public relations, gains highest positions of popularity in the consciousness of the people. However, the question raised, ladies and gentlemen, is this a policy? How expensive does our country still have to pay for the economy, administration, foreign policy and defence, its policy of responsibilities, the responsibilities of politicians or the blind punishment of populists, or the impunity of irresponsible and immoral rulers? In Greece, unfortunately, the criminal responsibility of the ministers and the introduction of proprietary crimes has a deep root. It starts from the first constitutions of 1922, the law of Epidaurus, Troizina, the Constitutions of 1844, 1864, 1927. The use or often misuse of the corresponding provisions has even led to the sprinkling of personalities or tragic ethnic divisions, whether the charges were justified or - as they have been ex post proved - unfounded. I would remind you of a few representative cases about the history which I have presented in more detail in committee. The Minister of Finance of the Government of Koletis was appointed in ‘23, Metaxas, Petrobe, Mavromichalis in ‘24, the Minister of Finance of the Government of Kolettis in ‘24, the Prime Minister Alexandros Koumoundouros, Charilaos Trikoupis, the ministers of the Theotokis, Dragoumis, Tsamados in 1892. The majority of liberals of 1927 referred to the governments of “15-17, the Kaloudes, Spyridon Lamprou and Dimitrio Gounari. In 1933 the reference made by the President of the Republic of Alexandros Zaimis and Eleftherios Venizelos was made. After World War II, Minister Hatzipanos was convicted. In 1965 the referral was made to Constantine Karamanlis and to the Ministers of Protopapadakis, Bournia, Helmi, Marti, Papalegura, as well as to Minister Averov and his State Secretarys. Andreas Papandreou was referred to in 1989 with ministers Koutsogiorgas, Tsovola and Pechos. Constantine Mitsotakis was referred to in 1994, and the phenomenon reached us until today. This historic route is perhaps teaching for both the present and the future, because it shows us not only how useful it is for the Minister to be treated as before the law with ordinary citizens, but also how necessary it is for him to be shielded in the performance of his duties so that he does not work in the hands of his political opponents or other powerful populists or even - even - even outside-institutionally intertwined interests, Article 86(3), leading to fainting of the face, inactivating the political and ultimately, at national, social and political divisions. Of course, no one is above the law and yet no one is entitled to use it as a posterior and avenger, having as a criterion, not the interests of the country, but its micro-group or personal backwardness. I believe that the New Democracy's proposal to remove from Article 86(3) the expropriatory deadline for the offences of the ministers, referring to the law, equates the treatment of the ministers with the ordinary citizens before the law, without abandoning the immunisation of the responsible and moral policies that are willing to make decisions on the good of our country. On the other hand, I consider the interpretative statement proposed by SYRIZA to be excessive and dangerous, calling for retroactive force in the search for the criminal liability of a minister. First of all, it runs counter to the fundamental principle of the law ‘nullum cremen, nulla poena sine lege’, i.e. no crime and no penalty shall be imposed if there is no law directly enshrined in the Constitution itself, in Article 7(1). Retrospective prosecution of Ministers for alleged criminal offences in the performance of their duties, committed when this provision did not apply, can legally expose the country, because it runs counter to basic human rights and freedoms, as well as to the current case-law of the Court of Human Rights. Politics form a revancism environment, which the history teaches us mathematically that it can lead to national divisions. In this sense, legalisation of policy and the politicisation of justice are equally dangerous phenomena for democracy. That is why politics must stop interfering with the independence of justice either by accusing it and in any case by charging it its own weaknesses to make decisions. Judicial disputes must be resolved in the chambers of the courts and policies in Parliament or before the people. For these reasons, I believe that SYRIZA's interpretative declaration should be voted down and the amortisation deadline in the Constitution should be abolished, leaving the legislator to regulate the further. This is useful if we want the policy to return, the justice to function, and Greece to rule for the benefit of the people and the nation. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider the issue of the vote of universal Hellenism to be of paramount importance. Our Constitution provides, in Article 51(4), for the possibility of a law which requires broad consensus, consensus of the permanent Members of Parliament. Unfortunately, this obstacle has not been raised by us, we have found it before us. The formation of such a reinforced parliamentary majority requires in any case party compromises and retreats, but they must be rooted in the Constitution, in order to avoid, in the future, complications in its constitutionality and its application. In England, there is a phrase that gives rise to the difficulty of making such a compromise. It says "a camel is a horse designed by a committee", i.e. the camel is a horse designed by a committee. The New Democracy has from the outset supported this position with the law of Pavlopoulou. We renewed the post in 2013 when I was Minister of the Interior and found no response. From the first moment, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and before becoming Prime Minister, but also from the next day he asked for this issue to be promoted by the Greeks, that is, the right to direct and universal participation in the parliamentary elections, with facilities that could be agreed unanimously by the parties, such as the elephant vote. In this way, the Greek Parliament is reconnected with the whole, not only of the Greek people, but also of the Greeks, that is, the Greek nation. The vote becomes a reconnection bridge with the metropolis, not only for the first generation of immigrants, which has increased explosively in recent years because of the crisis, but also for the third generation in danger of losing its roots. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'll take some more time, Mr. President. The selection criterion of the homosexuals, as you know, is not the Rusfetti and the favorableness of the past, but the improvement of the country's international image and the real recovery of the homeland, so that her children can return again, the first generation as workers and possibly the third generation as investors. The impossibility or delay in resolving this issue also caused Greece's inception of the Sitaropoulos – Yakoumopoulos case, but to a large extent, in the European Court of Justice in 2010, a decision which was unfortunately withdrawn from 2012 by the broad composition section of the European Court of Justice. It is true that SYRIZA sought to deal with this issue by proposing wide-ranging electoral districts of permanent establishment of Greeks, with a single ballot in each of them - take care - but without counting the vote of voters in the total, that is to say, the overall result of the elections. This raises a serious constitutional, political and moral issue, which affects the constitutional principle of equal voting, ignores the opinion of the homosexuals and reduces their relations with Greece, indicating them to a second category Greek citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The cross-party initiative of the Ministry of Interior is dramatically changing things. The 'dramatic' means pleasantly. The mutual retreats of all sides lead to a great, difficult but useful compromise which can and must be achieved. However, any decision must be fully founded in the Constitution, so that it does not in future raise issues of constitutional legitimacy, of procedural correctness and of practical functionality. For this to happen, a constitutional acrobatism is necessary. From the outset, the creation of a constitutional umbrella, which, with its broadness, can provide the joint legislator with the opportunity to effectively address the issue and in the future also to adapt technically or practically to all developments that may occur. For example, digital voting. The issues that need to be answered are three. First, who will vote? First of all, the right is universal, that is, everyone can practice it in the traditional way. The cross-party agreement can make it easier for Greeks abroad to vote from their accommodation, provided that they stay there for the last thirty-five years and have been presented to Greece for two years. Such conditions are in line with the Constitution and could not require revision. However, since something like this has been dealt with by Germany and the United Kingdom, which has been accepted by the case law of the European Court of Justice, we are also considering this. In Germany, according to Section 12 of the Bundeswahlgesetz, the electoral law lays down two cumulative criteria, one objective and one subjective one. One thing is that the homosexual has to stay in Germany for three months in the past twenty-five years. The other is to have a personal relationship with the political conditions in Germany, and that is reflected in the law. This may make constitutional reference necessary. In the United Kingdom, in accordance with Article 1 of the People's Act in 1985, a non-resident voter may vote from his place of residence if he is registered within the last 15 years. Who do these people vote for? In most of the countries of the Council of Europe, non-national voters can, of course, exercise their right in person, as we do, to embassies or consulates or in other ways, by letter vote, by electronic vote, by delegation. In many of these cases, indeed, they also have the opportunity to vote in the constituency that is registered. Only six of the forty-seven countries of the Council of Europe have created special constituencies. I put a table in the Minutes of plenary. [[At this point the Member, Mr Euripidis Stylianidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The New Democracy has the option in the Constitution to vote in one or more constituencies, but in practice supports the introduction of candidates from the Greek dispersion of the prestige list. That is why it regulates constitutional, express and by way of derogation from the constituencies of Greek democracy, so that the law does not conflict with Article 54(2) of the Constitution, which provides that the number of seats in each constituency is proportional to the legal population. At the same time, it guarantees that the vote of the homosexuals counts in the whole territory. How will they vote? The right to vote will be exercised in person in our consulate stores or where permission is given elsewhere. Furthermore, Article 51(4) of the Constitution still provides for the possibility of a dictatorial vote, if we want to move on to it at some point, for the validity and secrecy and universality to be guaranteed. The decision also provides for such arrangements to be regulated by Article 54(4) on which a review is to be made. So I answer that criticism and I close, Mr President. Firstly, according to Article 110(1), certain provisions of the Constitution are unrevisionable in general, such as popular sovereignty and equality. These constitute the hard core of the Constitution and cannot exist in the Constitution. However, by making the exercise of the electoral right in the country of residence conditional, this is not the case. The European Court of Human Rights has also dealt with this on the basis of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, in the case of the United Kingdom. It is the Schindler vs United Kingdom, with a decision that came out in 2013. We have a corresponding decision in 2004. It's the Melitsenko vs Ukraine case. Second point of criticism: According to Article 110(2), some provisions of the Constitution are unrevised now, as the Review House is bound by the provisions of the previous one on which to be reviewed. I think that this provision we are putting in, Mr President, in paragraph 54(4) also covers us in this case. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm hanging up, ladies and gentlemen. I think that if this Review gives something important, something historic, something great, that will be the vote of the homosexuals, not only because it will be the only time for cross-party consensus and national consensus, but because the vote will become the bridge that will reconnect the universal Hellenism with the metropolitan city, will grow Greece and make our Parliament express not only the Greek people but the Greek nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u285	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from Velestinos Magnesia High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To reach agreement, the next six speakers - and this will not be changed - are Mr Triantafylides, Mr Theodorikos, Mr Frangidis - in this order - Mr Hadjisvassiliou, Mr Varzopoulou and Mrs Christidou. So we start by Alexandros Triantafylides, on behalf of SYRIZA, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let us remind you that it is indeed an insult to both the Greeks and the Greeks, but also to the House that we have reached about the election of the work of the Constitutional Review and that we have not finalised what is precisely provided for in Articles 51(4) and 54(4) and that there is a cloud, a mist, an uncertainty about what exactly they anticipate. But that's not all. I will explain and then, in the second part of my speech, that it is a small-party priority for those who have been 15 years since 2001 - in terms of provision 51.4 until 2015 that SYRIZA came, in no way had they dealt with the family, no precursor and tenderness had for the implementation of the constitutional provision as executive legislators, even though they also completed the 100 votes, because they won PASOK and New Democracy, New Democracy and PASOK. So that we do not have these late sensations, which are, of course, reflected in practice. The citizen who is following us will wonder why the Constitutional Review should concern him. Ten years of memorial elephant, lost lives, troubled souls, hopes in vain for a better life. What and who should they believe? Abstention and withdrawal for an important part of the citizens are the footprint of the crisis, the broken relationship between citizens, politicians, politicians and parties. Who will reliably, with democratic sensitivity and self-criticism, restore the lost signal of association and the relationship between citizens and politicians, whether as natural sizes or as political exercises? Citizens will wonder why the provisions of the new constitution relate to their lives, to their everyday lives, to their family. Why are our two central targets for the post-mortem period, namely the deepening of democracy, the resurgence of neoliberalism, concerned with them? Answers ready, procat, they don't exist. Fight and experienced example. Anything you ask of the others, you must first apply it to yourself. The voice of the late dean of the Criminal Law of Ioannis Manoledakis follows us and continues: "Let us fight for the impossible, so that we do not experience the inconceivable." You're stationing and affecting your presence or your absence of goals, goals, power correlations and ultimately interests. Simple the question of all of us and you citizens: Who should serve the new constitution of the memorial period? But obviously the interests of many. The Constitution captures our limits, the limits of our political system and basically says: "I am your image, society, and I look like you." Why are we talking about stirring up neoliberalism and austerity, as well as deepening democratic institutions? Why simply, Greek citizens, when it weakens the left hand of the state, what guarantees aid to the weak, the rights of citizens, justice, equality, equality of opportunity, the dignity of everyone, with everyone, then automatically strengthens the right hand of authoritarianism, the hand which, by invoking the law and order, vindicates, subjugates, subjugates, subjugates when necessary, even with the "negative compulsion of violence", rights, freedoms and claims. That is what my humility has noted from this very moment of the House on February 13, 2019. Since then, from the first stage of the review, did the elections of 7 July take place and the Greek people's decision, which in the dilemma: "With those who put us in or with those who took us out of the memoranda?" He said by majority: "With those who put us, with those who went bankrupt, they know." And the popular verdict, as contradictory as it may seem, is always fully respected. After ten consecutive years of commemorative cannibalism where the economy attempted to eliminate the concepts of the "city", politics, citizens, the concepts of democracy, dialogue and composition of the Parliament, at the place where they were born, we are attempting to restore the cared for by the Constitution. Relation of much wounded, where the Constitution, the Charter of the rights and obligations of each one and all together, not just remained unscathed, but has been reduced to baptize the fish and serve the current monumental needs and indicators. Social needs have been baptized obsessed, social rights have been baptized unreservedly. Public goods, education and health have been baptized unnecessary luxuries. The Constitution became legislative acts which did not even come to Parliament. The dominant black color. Black everywhere, like the lost sign of democracy, v. Avgeropoulos. The questions are hot and existential to our democracy. Will we restore, reinstate the reversal table of principles and values against Ioannis Capris, or will we accept and agree with the defeat of politics and policies, since politicians, doctors and journalists are 'taking 'em','shooting 'em', by the multinationals? Or say it modestly, as your Vice-President announced, we should all understand that companies like "NOVARTIS" may give money to politicians or doctors or I don't know who else, but they save lives. Will they finally punish those who have been caught or will you provide immunity to the bankers so that they do not speak, be wise? How many bank accounts and offshore in Greece and abroad will you release as carmen of black political money? How many streams, influxes, outflows as puncture wheels are you going to redirect? How much FINANCIAL TIMES headlines for dirty money in Greece will you consider that something rotten is in the Kingdom of Denmark? How many such headlines make for you the definition of defeat of politics? Why do you ordinary Members of the region of New Democracy, who do not owe anyone, who has made your own name with honesty and clarity, in your prefectures and in your cities, contribute with your vote to call newspapers such as FINANCIAL TIMES, the sacred gospel of technocrats, our country, our Greece 'drug money laundry'? Where's your patriotism? Where's your patriotic sensitivity? Will you vote on the interpretative provision of Rule 86, not because we propose it, not because in the previous House there were thirty-five more than SYRIZA, after having received a hundred and seventy-nine votes, but to get all together to the Greek citizens and say that there is no limitation on the bribery of the politician? We have had the balls, such as the Members' privileges and the abolition of the Members' tax, which has been in force since 1975. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We proved this in our legislative initiative and in the vote, where we requested a roll-call vote on Rule 71 of Law No 4472/2017, and of course we called for the roll-call vote and no one understood all the parties from the previous House to vote against it, the abolition of the Members' tax which has been in force since 1975. For first of all, the experienced example begins to apply what we ask of others. With our deed and not the hollow political reason we overthrow established perceptions and behaviours of corruption, scaffolding, remulsion and pimpling. Now, do you have the guts? The question that lies in the Chamber is clear: Does anyone keep you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Triantafylides, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u288	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you for understanding. You're telling the TV panels that it's self-evident, you say there's a case law. You say that the Marios Ice has said that the Council of State has said so. So come on, let us vote together, and the three hundred, the interpretative provision of Article 86 and shield from any misinterpretation, maliciousness, and tell every Greek citizen, every Greek and Greek, that for any politician who is being bribed, for any political person who catches it, "shoot it" has been taken for him and for himself, there is no limitation, as was the case until yesterday. In other words, it does not cover each other because it'retains it'. We ask for light everywhere, in everything, for everyone! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides. The Minister for the Interior has the floor now, Mr Theodorikos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u290	The fourth minister to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u291	Yes, the fourth minister. Okay, that's why his time will be less.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u292	The Conference had said about two Ministers. We'd love to hear you, Minister, but he's broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u293	Mr. Theodorikos, don't waste time because it's against the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u294	How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u295	I'll give you ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u296	An hour, an hour and a half!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u297	Not much of it, Mr. Loverdos. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional review is a top parliamentary procedure and, of course, participation in it is a very important moment for every Member. And so it must be, as a process of Revision of the Constitution escapes from the circle of a parliamentary term and the Members who have the luck of contributing with thought, ideas and ultimately voting in this procedure, in a sense, must be regarded as lucky. These MPs are the ones who actually form the State's Charter of Operations, which affects the lives of citizens in practice for at least the next decade. That is why I believe that even in theory the parties should face any constitutional reform with a wide range of spirits, making at least basic ideological excesses and trying to find convergences and consensus places. So I could only feel joy participating in this process. The truth is, however, that I feel greater melancholy, as the characteristics of the debated constitutional review are largely inconsistent with the needs of society on many issues, especially because there are no radical areas such as education and the establishment of non-state universities, things that exist throughout the world which have not been discussed and decided on by this constitutional review because of the tragic failure and the ideals presented by the Accuracy Anti-Policy and which, as far as I can see from the position of its representatives, has not changed at least in this respect. The truth is that the previous parliamentary majority did not dare to look into society in the eye and make decisions that would change the country's Charter of Operations, pushing forward and covering the lost territory of decades. However, let us create a few more opportunities to adapt to what the Greek society is calling for. We will achieve this if we listen to its needs, the needs of the people who are thirsty for progress and improvement of their lives after ten years of hard struggle with major economic problems that have hit the entire Greek society, but also the perceptions and attitudes that have created this very great crisis. We will achieve this if we all leave yesterday's mindsets on the sidelines and embrace all the Greeks, wherever they are, as long as they too want to offer for our country. As much as in the economy, in technology, in international institutions, globalisation is taking place - and indeed at a rapid pace - so much so, ladies and gentlemen, I think the need for an effective national state, a state that respects and represents the patriotism of citizens, as well as the instability of freedom, security and social cohesion, again emerges. That is why I believe that the road to tomorrow is not just that of economic development. Greece must become a state and this presupposes patriotism, the unity of the Greeks and the consent of the political forces to issues which form the core of a rule of law in the service of citizens. This is nowadays of great value. Contrasts and confrontations between world powers, regional conflicts and interests lead to large migratory flows. In such situations national security is a condition for social cohesion, and we must all respect it in practice. Our country, therefore, needs, in addition to all others, the enlisting of the forces of global Hellenism. Greece must keep in its arms all Greeks, wherever they are: First of all all all the new children studying abroad or leaving in the years of the crisis to gain opportunities for life and success or simply to have a normal life that Greece could not guarantee. But also our older compatriots who left decades ago, but continue to care about Greece, love it, hurt it, support it by acts and watch us very carefully about what we say and what we do. But we too, the political forces of the country, must show that we want the support of this other Greece that lives outside our borders, and one way of with particular semantic and practical value is to make it easier for our fellow citizens to exercise their right to vote, those who are, of course, registered on the electoral lists. The Constitution expressly recognises the right of non-national Greeks to participate in the electoral process and refers to a law which will facilitate them to vote from their home place. This law - as you know - requires a majority of two hundred MPs in the House. It is not a restriction created by the present majority, neither by the current Prime Minister nor by the current Minister for the Interior, since they did not even share the time when this article of the Constitution was drafted in the political scene of the country. In all of us, however, the Members of this Parliament are responsible for creating the shocks that are needed to permanently and celebratingly the majority of the two hundred seats, so that the law can pass through the House to facilitate the Greeks abroad to vote from their homes. The New Democracy's position on this matter was and remains clear. We should make it easier for all Greeks from abroad who are already on the electoral lists or who have the right to register and should vote through the letter of vote. This position, however, on the basis of the existing parliamentary relationships, would not bring together the number of two hundred votes required by the Constitution. The mandate I received from the Prime Minister at the first moment and which I served with enthusiasm was to create the widest possible shocks to enable as many Greeks abroad to vote from their homes. We have had long and painful discussions with all the parties in Parliament and on 22 October we have basically reached a compromise treaty which will facilitate - I believe - several thousand Greeks voting in the next elections in the countries inhabited. Unfortunately, the restrictions imposed by parties do not allow all those on the electoral lists to make use of the beneficial provision. It is clear that there will be our compatriots who will not have this facility. Evidently those who cannot make use of the law, which I feel sure will be voted on by the necessary majority, will be able to exercise their electoral right, as has been foreseen so far, by coming to Greece and voting in the already registered constituencies. It's not what we wanted. This compromise, however, allows us to take a major first step. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not matter who made more compromises. It is important who has proved to be the political will to do so. If today's Civic Opposition wanted to have done so, it was able to take such an initiative in practice during the previous parliamentary term. However, it did not do so, and this absence of actions is extremely eloquent and understandable to Greeks in and out of Greece. During the debate that led to the agreement I referred to on 22 October, some political forces raised issues of unconstitutionality with regard to the restrictions that are being put forward, such as the voters who will be facilitated and who will vote from their homes to have proven real ties with the country. It was therefore necessary, in Article 54, which is revised, to shield the provisions to be included in the law, whose draft was drawn up on the basis of the agreement we have said. Today, a few hours ago, the Ministry of Interior published the final text, following the public consultation that has taken place, with all the improvements and clarifications, which I believe make it easier for everyone to pass this bill on to the full. Based on the proposal for revision, a prerequisite for the exercise of the electoral right of non-national Greeks is the absence time from the country or presence in Greece for a certain period of time in the past. In particular, in the last thirty-five years, the presence of at least two years in the country, regardless of when each Greek citizen has left our country and, at the same time, in the last one or two years, must have made a tax declaration by using points E1, E2, E3 and E9 of the tax declaration. All of this is included in very detailed terms in the regulations which, as I said, have come to the public since the consultation that took place over the last few days. I repeat, therefore, that the specific addition, which Mr Stylianides spoke about earlier, is made in Article 54 of the Constitution to shield the restrictions put forward by certain parties, as far as the facilities are concerned for the non-national Greeks are concerned. Many of these are potential and not mandatory - and quite rightly so - because it is a shame that the mistake made in the previous Review has been made, to commit irrevocably new parliamentary majorities to what they will do in the future. The lessons and sufferings of the past I think we should take them for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to vote in favour of this addition to Rule 54. We must listen to society and compose opinions. We must create shocks. Clearly, consensus is in no way an end in politics. In fact, several times, the course in areas and reforms prove to be collisional. The parties have an ideological and political identity. Ideological separatist lines, although they have been reduced, are clearly existential. But when political decisions concern basic democratic rights of citizens of a national nature, consensus is a self-evident duty and shows the extent of the responsibility of each of us to the citizens who have trusted us not only in their vote, but in their progress and their families, in the quality of their lives. Then, the greatest ideological opponents must find agreements and shocks for the good of the Greek people. In conclusion, I would just like to add that in the year 2020 we are shortly called upon to do what it did a hundred and fifty eight years ago, in 1862, Zaimis as Minister of the Interior, when by law he allowed Greeks abroad to vote. We are therefore called upon to do what the twenty-six of the eight countries of the European Union are doing, but also what our predecessors did a century and a half ago, believing that this is how we take an important first step towards the justice of our compatriots who want to participate in the country's commons, but not all have the opportunity to do so by travelling to our home country during the elections. For all these reasons, I address a call to all the political forces of the place to vote unanimously to complete Article 54, as we all have to vote next week on the law to facilitate the vote of Greeks abroad. It will be a strong message of responsibility for all political parties. It will be a strong message of fundamental credibility of the political system, a strong message that the country wants to keep strong ties with them, especially now, in the great effort to regenerate it. And the most direct political bond in a democracy is the vote of every citizen, which we will do, by changing and amending Article 54 of the Constitution and by voting unanimously - I hope - the law on the vote of the Greeks abroad next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u299	We have questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u300	Wait a minute, let's get in touch. Do you have any questions to the Minister about the provision?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u301	Excuse me, we were putting on another one...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u302	Excuse me, there are the following data: Mr. Stylianides said he had tabled the final text of the New Democracy proposal...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u303	...which we don't have.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u304	Wait a minute. Mr. Theodorikos said the new electoral law had been tabled. We have these two things. I imagine that everything has been filed with Parliament's secretariat. So the only thing I'm going to do is ask the Agency to bring us copies, share all parties and take them into consideration and speak. Anything else you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, I would just like to make a statement for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u306	Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr President. This clarification is mentioned - and I told the committee too - in that there was no agreement on it, but a reservation on the intergroup. One party had a negative position and another party had also been placed with reservation. This is to clarify the terms of the agreement in the intergroup. The last point I have to make is that we accept, not in the Chamber, but in the corridors, information from the majority that they will add something that was our request and another party, the concept of real tie as a restriction on the law. The reason why I am saying this is that we want a reply from the general rapporteur for the majority - obviously this clarification of what is about the Constitution will not come from this government - as to whether this request that was accepted in principle is treated positively by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u309	Look, there is a mess, which I have mentioned since yesterday, in view of which I said - I think you presiding - that we are withdrawing from the debate on the wording of alpha or beta provision. But this is something very different here. We don't have the setting. We're listening to Mr. Stylianides, but we don't have the regulation. We are supposed at least to have the finals - the finals so far - because at night, when we're done, we have to say 'yes' or 'no'. There is no way we can stop this process, even if we disagree on many points. However, it is not possible to make prototypes in the morning, to pass the time, not to be second-guessed, because we have no picture. My prototype this morning was in the void. It was what we knew from the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u310	She was fine!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u311	I have an objection, but, Mr President, we must end this. I mean, tell us what their final choice is. The draft law will see it, but see the constitutional provision, which we must have said at night 'yes' or 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u312	I think the best way is for the Secretariat of the House - I have already asked - to bring us the regulation. I mean, whether Mr. Stylianides reads it, or if he remembers it, tells us outside. You're right. It's a given that you're right. From there on, what is said in the halls of the Parliament is judged. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u314	Please, Mr. Stylianides, you have the floor for a minute too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u315	In order to make it easier for us, for days now, the Bureau has created a table that has the existing provisions and by the place where the majority of the texts are tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u316	We don't have him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u317	Since yesterday we have submitted our texts for all but Article 73.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u318	You have tabled them, but we do not have them, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u319	Ask the Secretariat to give them to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u320	We've been asking for them since morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u321	Please, let's not go on with this. There are many speakers and the meeting is of particular interest. I think we're all going to solve this at the moment. Everyone maintains their opinion of how the whole process was done and whether it should have been that way. We'll vote on Monday. Let me clarify something else. The Conference of Presidents has said that two ministers will speak. This does not mean that the right of a minister who is a Member of Parliament to speak as a Member is removed,
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u322	He'll have to put his card on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u323	We fully agree. He'll have to put his card on. Mr. Francis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of voting from the Greek Democratic Republic, which is contained in the revised provisions of the 9th section in Article 54 and paragraph 4, is a reason why this constitutional revision is making sense. Once voted on by all the Members of all the parties, the House will send out a strong message. It will be a success of Greece's political system and political forces. The process will be a model of political and legal culture and a guide to the way in which a constitutional review should be achieved with cooperation, mutual retreats, a broad consensus aimed only at the best possible result for the country and the citizens. As a Greek I have lived for several years abroad, in Italy and Sweden, I am also personally aware. I know very well that the Greeks of abroad have huge love for Greece and have the lasting desire to feel part of it. That is why they are trying to maintain ties with their country and to participate in any way they can in its internal developments and internal developments. The possibility of voting in the elections of their country of origin has been a constant request from the Greeks from abroad for many years now. The vote is also a fundamental act of the active citizen and marks participation in the formation of the country's nature and way of governance. But this is also a question of moral importance. We cannot, on the one hand, ask the migrant Greeks to use the enormous power and influence they have for the benefit of our country and, on the other, not to let them have a say through their vote on Greece's events. They are, moreover, ambassadors to our country abroad with all the meaning of the word. The issue, therefore, is even more acute in the context of the years of the crisis and of the memoranda, where a new wave of migration of young people is recorded and, indeed, of high education from Greece abroad. Can anyone, therefore, deprive these people of the right to speak in their own country? However, in addition to its self-evident importance, let me describe the issue of the vote of the deceased, as most Western countries have already done so. We are also coming here to invent powder and, in fact, we are questioning the solvency and indifference of the letter of vote, which would be a serious incision in the process, when in other countries they have reached the electronic vote. The implementation of electronic elections is now a fact in Europe and it is expected to have a huge positive impact on the increase in voters' participation, on the intactness of the process, on the secrecy of voting and on the reduction of the huge financial costs of the elections. Our party is the first to ask for the issue of the vote on the vote to be taken in this House by making concrete and clear proposals: firstly, listing the electoral lists, secondly, counting the vote on the election result, thirdly, electoral regions or foreign constituency and fourthly a letter of vote. I cannot, however, comment on the hypocritical attitude of the previous majority of SYRIZA, who, while hastening to propose enriched provisions on social rights already guaranteed in constitutional terms, proposed that Greeks should not count on the election result. He proposed, in short, that the equality and equivalence of vote, which the Constitution has already guaranteed, be violated. And, of course, in fear of political isolation, since the Communist Party of Greece has shown itself to be positive on the provision, it once again has made a beautiful asshole like the ones that have been used to us in recent years. I believe that, once again in a climate of consensus and cooperation, the conditions and procedures will be decided so that the right to vote of Greek residents abroad will be the best possible. With regard to Rule 62 on the irresponsibleness of Members, we in the Change Movement believe that we should be fully in line with the criteria of the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, which argues that the impunity can only be provided for acts directly linked to parliamentary duties. Refusing the immunity of a Member of Parliament for an act which is not linked to these tasks means that the right to appeal to the judiciary is violated. The principle of equality of citizens is therefore violated. The Change Movement therefore, moving to that logic, argues that the MP is subject to criminal law and, if only himself so, that the procedure of the perpetrator should be initiated in the House. The responsibility is therefore transferred to the Member instead of the House today. With regard to Rule 86 on the responsibility of Ministers, like the previous one on the immunity of Members, they have been a field of constitutional populism in recent years, and that is because they relate to the privileges of civil servants. But there is a tendency to remove privileges in trying to regain citizens' lost confidence in politics and politicians. It is, of course, worth wondering why the Review of the 2008 Constitution, where the PASOK had withdrawn from Parliament's Chamber, the parties that were then in Parliament, did not change any of these articles, namely the New Democracy, the Communist Party of Greece and then the Coalition. It is also worth saying that since the 2009 elections, particularly since - with few exceptions - the practice of waiving immunity has been implemented. It is, however, of the utmost importance that the Minister or the Member may carry out his political work without fear of his continued and unjustified criminalisation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This would, moreover, make the political ballot of a common symposium and lead to parliamentary and political inertia. So what will substantially change the content of the provision on the responsibility of the Ministers is the removal of the deadlines laid down in the last subparagraph of paragraph 3 concerning the execution of the offences. So we say yes to his review, which is also necessary, but with diagrams that do not allow for opportunistic and demagogic use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr. Francis. Mr Hatzidakis has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Varzopoulou likewise from New Democracy. Here you are, Mr. Hatzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the articles we are discussing today is one of the positive steps in the process. I will repeat my view that we are not moving into deep areas that would be needed by the Constitution and the place because of the previous governmental majority. However, today we correct articles that have created more problems than hypothetically resolved. In modern democracies it is undoubtedly necessary to protect MPs and ministers from abuses and criminal proceedings that can prevent them from being conscientious in the exercise of their duties. Unfortunately, however, the practical application of the articles on immunity has often become abusive and some representatives of the political system in many cases have worked on the privilege of immunity for their own benefit by sending a wrong signal to society. Today, with this Review, many of the problems go far beyond and this is to the credit of our political world. We are restricting immunity to acts which are actually done in the exercise of parliamentary duties and the protection of the Ministers will no longer have a privileged limitation. This restores the principle of equality for everyone against the law and, of course, the House restores the necessary sense of equality for all citizens. More specifically, Article 62 of the Constitution makes the framework for granting immunity to MPs specific. The addition clearly states that the Member is only protected in cases of offences linked to the exercise of his or her parliamentary duties or to his or her political activity. And our will and the message to the citizens are clear and clear: against criminal law all citizens are equal. And I would like to point out once again that the New Democracy proves consistent both in words and in actions. It sends a clear message that in no field, in any activity, any category of citizens can be impunity when the law is violated. With regard to Article 86, the short time to cancel the Ministers' offences has also in the past created a strong sense of injustice among citizens and not unfairly, if we remember cases for which no one has ever been punished. Today we can look the citizens in the eyes and tell them that a big problem is finally resolved. I shall end with Rule 54, ladies and gentlemen. My generation has the sad privilege of having welcomed friends and acquaintances that in recent years they have left Greece abroad. And because I have lived outside Greece too, I understand the injustice that Greeks feel abroad when they are excluded from the political processes of the country. The revision of Article 54 therefore sets out the foundations for finally giving proof of the possibility of voting. And that is indeed a great constitutional change. For the New Democracy today, a great goal is being achieved, our non-Greek compatriots gain the constitutional right to vote. Today we parliamentarians are simply doing our duty, we recognise our fellow citizens their political status. Although we would like to see greater flexibility in shaping the electoral basis, today we are setting the foundations for the vote of the deceased from their place of residence. And we put them in the most fascinating way in the country's constitution. And because I have heard from colleagues in the SYRIZA reports on the simple proportionalness and equality of vote, I have one comment: I respect their opinion. But to remind them that in the elections the two-five seats are divided on a simple analogue basis. You did not show the same sensitivity in the vote as you did because you very simply did not want it to be counted against the general election result. Obviously - and unfortunately - you have two measures and two weights in your sensitivity to equality of vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, too. Mr. Hatzidis has shown how one can actually say things in half the year. Here you go, Mr. Varzopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u328	I will try to compete with him, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me - I think - to refer exclusively to Article 54, because I believe that Article 54 is the top of the Constitution, as is the top of any constitution in this world. Look, the government is, unfortunately, still a long way from being characterized as a natural science, and therefore the 'every measure human' applies. Article 54 is what determines who these people will be, what is the way of producing political staff, which puts the measure of all things, at least in social and political life. Article 54 is very characteristic of the way our Constitution is structured. It defines the way and not the content. It stipulates, for example, that the electoral system, the number of regions will be defined by law, that the number of MPs per electoral district will be determined by a presidential decree. This means, of course, that by definition, it creates a system which is volatile. This means that, despite any security differences, it is absolutely possible - and we have been living this very long in recent years - to change the electoral system very regularly. Ladies and gentlemen, you know better than me - especially the more experienced politicians - that this is not common in the world and, above all, in the most advanced world. There are countries which have systems of election that have been undisturbed for hundreds of years. There are countries - many more - which have had the same electoral systems for many decades. So if we want to be like them, if we want to take this path of political maturity, we too have to incorporate a permanent electoral system into our own Constitution. Of course, that's where there has to be a consensus. Of course, there are substantial differences here. There's the Left who wants the simple analogue, there's the Right, we want the enhanced analogue. The question is that these differences, however substantial they may be or are considered, should be bridged at some point. We have nine years ahead of us for that. We have to do this, if not for us, at least for our ancestors. Let me now address another issue which, in my opinion, is more substantial than how many of them will come out. It's who they're gonna get out of here. In my view - and I hope you will agree with that - this depends decisively on the number of seats in each constituency. Ladies and gentlemen, who are going to come out of who is going to run, which means that they will be running for them to think that they may have a chance of getting MPs out, and that depends crucially on their perception of the difficulties they face in this and of course on their personality. So when one has to deal with electoral regions that have hundreds of thousands of electorates and, in most cases, tens of thousands, it is quite clear that he is facing certain specific difficulties. The most important of them is the need for mass communication and mass influence. This is treated as 'two more', or in relation to the means and accessibility of the media or an activity which allows it to do so. As far as mass media is concerned, will you tell me 'but is that not self-evident'? Ladies and gentlemen, it is not. Please, when you are next time abroad, open your receivers after your breakfast and see how many conversations similar to ours happen there. The answer is very simple: None! Ask colleagues from the European Parliament how many of them have our relationship with the media. Almost no one. Minimal. This is because people are elected in one-sided regions and do not need this kind of communication. The other means is to have a corresponding profession, a specific activity, to be a doctor, for example. The other issue which also arises is the need to fund the personal election campaign, when the fundamental opposition to election is the same party. You realise, ladies and gentlemen, that these create pre-selection conditions, which create conditions, which essentially define both the social coordinates and the characterised profile of the people who will run. So we have a new task ahead of us. But look around you. Let's see, I repeat, the advanced world. In most of these countries with a substantial tradition, candidates are competing with those other parties in one-sided regions. This is done in various ways. In England, for example, there is the net system of the one-sided region - First East The Post - where they are elected by majority vote. In France there is a system of one-sided regions, which allows for two rounds, with the second round between the first two. In Germany there is a system of one-sided regions, which is combined with a list, and there is a simple analogue. What does that mean? That there they understand that the one-sided region, the identification of the candidate's election campaign with the party, solves all the previous disadvantages, creates a real opportunity to represent the people. So it is our duty, and in the next nine years, that we have to have it before our eyes, that is our duty to our ancestors. Let me now say that this need for consensus on essential issues is demonstrated by the proposal by the New Democracy Government for the vote of the relatives. He's got substantial imperfections. I, too, am not satisfied with many points. But what it achieves is to meet the requirement of a substantive constitution, to be the essence, to be the fifth of what the Constitution requires. If there are some imperfections, ladies and gentlemen, they are, this maturity we have, this Constitution we have. Let's hope in nine years we'll be much better to build a better constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u329	Mrs Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA, followed by Mr Tsakalotos, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u330	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the process of discussing the constitutional review is evolving, it is becoming increasingly clear that two sides dominate the debate, two dominant trends. On the one hand, the SYRIZA side, where there is an intention to renew and modernise important provisions that promote the rule of law. On the other hand, there is the willingness to keep the situation as it stands, the mood for reproduction of the same power, maintenance in public affairs for as long as possible, without realizing that the seasons are changing and without taking into account the social needs that remain unsatisfactory. For example, in Article 56 of the SYRIZA, we support the addition of a provision that Members who have been Members for three consecutive parliamentary periods cannot stand in the next elections. In this proposal we are opposed to all other parties. Why? It has not been clear that all these years the possibility of re-electioning and re-electing the same political people has led to the creation of political families - the so-called fireplaces - and the transfer of parliamentary status from parents to children. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of this, and the world that we are seeing is aware of it, and also in the capital, of the support mechanisms for political families that each generation has inherited Members would say a right. Politics itself as the highest participatory process is thus devalued. The parliamentary function becomes a profession in which porphyrogens enter graduates to enter pensioners, making very simple use of Dad's clientele. We in the SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, simply want to create a different relationship with the citizens. In trying to break this vicious circle, we proposed that particular provision. But the New Democracy does not consent to such a democratic and social change. I continue with Article 54(4), where the issue of the vote on redundancies is being dealt with indirectly. It is worth recalling that the issue was first opened by SYRIZA during the previous parliamentary term, aiming at the political participation of the Greeks who live off the ground, but in a way that respects the democratic principle as laid down in the Constitution. However, it is the political exploitation of the juncture that has inspired the current government to be a pretext for the vote on the motions for resolutions, since in the past, in all these years, it has never been considered to raise such a matter. Now, however, she thinks she can work it politically for her benefit. The introduction of a system of open representation of offshores, combined with the enhanced analogy promoted by the New Democracy, may lead us to very dangerous roads. It is possible to displace the bonus of additional seats from the territory abroad. Therefore, the solution of the extra MPs in broader electoral regions of permanent establishment by the Greek Parliament with a single ballot in each of them is chosen and in order not to discriminate between Greeks abroad, as well as the recognition and right of vote and the right of election, because SYRIZA sees the migrants as citizens outside the country, who can express themselves politically and not just as a tank of votes, as the New Democracy sees them. We now go to Rule 86 and to the interpretative statement proposed by the SYRIZA on the criminal liability of the ministers. In fact, this is what it says in its name, to further explain the rules in force in Article 86. What does Article 86 provide for? That it is only ministerial offences in the narrow sense of the term and not those committed simply in the exercise of ministerial duties. By adding this interpretative statement, it is our intention to clarify that the latter are persecuted under common legislation, that is, in the same way, as for all citizens, because we believe there is no reason to protect the ministers from the Constitution for an illegal act that cannot be linked to their duties. The government of SYRIZA considered that there should be a narrow, strict, inappropriate interpretation of what constitutes a ministerial offence and what a crime against the occasion of the exercise of ministerial duties and the latter being criminally tall for the Minister as it is for each of us. Our aim is primarily to avoid scandals and gradually restore citizens' confidence in our political system. We do not introduce a new rule of law. We are interpreting genuinely applicable constitutional rules. The fact, ladies and gentlemen, that the SYRIZA proposal for Article 86 finds no response to any of the other parties - the ruling party, including of course - means firstly indifference and contempt for their part to refinance this country's political life. However, there is something worse: the rejection of our proposal may strengthen the reverse position, namely that Article 86 includes offences on the occasion of ministerial duties, and that will mean - if these interpretations are of course adopted by justice - that the case of 'NOVARTIS' will be filed. This, ladies and gentlemen, is dangerous, it is harmful to the state, it is harmful to the Greek people, it is harmful to justice and trust between us and the citizens. It is unacceptable for the political example that we at least want to give. In conclusion, I should like to say that this review process, particularly for us who are new Members, is indeed very important and gives the opportunity, in practice, to show to the citizens who are following what each political party supports and what it does in practice. We, ladies and gentlemen, are clear. What we are declaring about participatory democracy, political and institutional equality, about transparency in public life, we are doing them, asking for them to enter our Constitution. On the other hand, we have micropolitical, political interests and hood. And no matter how hard you try to reverse, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people have eyes and see, they have ears and they hear and they also have wallets they pay. He sees the increases in PPC tariffs, the authoritarian state you're making, the lies you were talking about managing the refugee, the shortages in the schools, that you do not protect the workers' rights, he sees that you have reduced HISBIA and taxation only in the very large assets, he sees the growth that you do not bring with your magic wands and your supposed credibility. He sees that while you're government for five and a half months, you're still oppositioning SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras. Are you opposition? It's SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras. You're a government and it doesn't come out of you? It's SYRIZA and Tsipras again. And, finally, after forty years of governance, are you to blame anywhere? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Mrs. Christidou. Mr Chakalotos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative and then Ms Papakostas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr President. The Revision of the Constitution could be said to be a leading democratic moment. But it would be clichés. In order not to be a cliché, the new constitution should incorporate the lessons of the past twenty years. The meanings, ideologies, new issues that have come to the surface and how they can be concentrated in a legal text should be taken into account. One thing is certain that he has characterised all the time before the crisis, the time of neoliberalism and the time of the crisis at ten years. It's the depreciation of politics. And these changes in the way that the New Democracy is trying to build or forget about SYRIZA's work, do not respond to this dominant element of depreciation of politics which, of course, is not just a Greek phenomenon. They're everywhere in Europe and in America. Politics is being dismantled because of the social issue. In the time before the crisis, various social contracts have been made, some express, some unsatisfactory contracts with pensioners, with workers, with creditors, with young people. When the crisis came, the number one thing for which a political decision was needed by parliaments, political forces and political parties, having become poorer with the crisis, was what social contracts would be maintained and what social contracts would not be maintained. And after the first two years that the system was all over - something we have to do with the bankers, something we have to do with what happened and understand the crisis - what was the answer? It was the reorganization state, the "consolidation state", as they call it in English. It's Volfgang Strick's expression. And what is the'resolution state'? Of all the contracts, it says that the first contract to be held is to the creditors. We are building a state in which the basic obligation is on creditors and all other contracts are secondary, third and fourth. This shift cannot change the depreciation of politics. On the contrary, it strengthens it. Therefore, the changes proposed by SYRIZA in the previous parliament had a cohesion. We had an opinion on how we reversed the depreciation of politics. When I wanted to introduce social rights into the Constitution, this was an intervention for contracts that the state makes with social groups. Social contracts with retired people, with sick people, with students and students can't always be down - down in a row. It must be pointed out through the Constitution that these contracts too are important. And instead, we have an economic policy that continues the'resolution state'. In this way will continue the inequalities and wage stagnation and all these social phenomena created by Orban, Salvador and the Greek Solution and continue to depreciate politics. Today the budget has been submitted and I must tell you that the hundred and fifty-seven pages are not something that will shock the middle class. The middle-class will not say 'I say, we are destroyed with SYRIZA, but at least now there is a series of issues that will bring us back to recovery'. We'll have a long time to discuss this. Inequality, low wages, bad jobs and this budget will continue. Therefore, depreciation of policy is a social issue, but it is also a political issue, because some parties, some parliaments have decided in favour of the resolution state and they have decided that social contracts are last on the priority list and creditors first. That is why the New Democracy has not dared to try to reduce the primary surplus with the reserve left by the SYRIZA government. Some parties have made these contractual decisions and order. Mr Javarras spoke this morning and said that the Constitution must protect political parties within the political system. In fact, he said that both Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Dritsas were in agreement with this approach. I don't know if it's true. Mr. Javarras said so. The political parties can be less disgraceful, firstly if they escape from what we call the cartel cuts. And since the many people who listen to us do not understand what "cartel party" means to say that it means parties that are so established in the state, (being state, they take resources from the state), that they have forgotten the basis, they have forgotten the democratic relationships that the top party has with the basis and act as a mechanism of the state that goes downwards. Therefore, the first to react to the depreciation of politics and the cartel parties are new moves within the parties to leave it. This is why SYRIZA makes this expansion of his party, because he wants to avoid becoming a cartel party, which depends on the state and is not something that comes underneath, with a social root. But it is not just a matter of the parties themselves. The political system must give these signals, that is to say, politics is not indiscriminate. In order to do so, it must take the picture of politics very seriously. In Article 56, we tried to introduce the Members' turn, so that they would not be themselves, not to say the same families themselves. Mrs Rapt has told us that she does not like this provision, because it is not too practicable, so it was not radical enough. He said that in the way we presented it, it would not have been very much implemented, because a few Members of Parliament or Parliament would have three main terms. I can hear Mrs. Rapt. Are you suggesting something more radical to show, as Mr Katrugalos said, politics is not a profession, that Socrates was wrong about the few and right, that politics is for everyone? Would that not be a way of dealing with the depreciation of politics? Let's go to Article 86. There were good arguments from both sides. I'm not a lawyer. There are smart people who disagree. There are even lawyers who disagree. I have heard arguments about them, but especially about the dispute between your responsibility and your responsibility on occasion. However, when this ambiguity exists, which we are saying to clarify - something that already exists - the burden of proof must be reduced. To face the popular feeling that there is something, that there is impunity? You must go to the essence and to the political substance, not just to the legal arguments. You must go to the real substance, which says that politicians too must not be covered under certain provisions and we must clarify that. It is of great importance when there is this ambiguity, at least, to have the natural momentum towards opening up the system, to see that justice affects both Prime Ministers and Ministers. I do not hear the argument that we are doing so only for NOVARTIS, because I could overturn it and say that you are reacting so that there is no trial for NOVARTIS. But let's leave that and see the substance. The substance is politics: How much protection do we want the ministers to have? Does the popular feeling think that the bend is not leaning towards what you are afraid of, but to what we fear, that they have more protection than they should be? The same is for the simple analogue. It's not the Constitution. But do you understand that democracy at the level of local government has destroyed it? There's no need to be a municipal councillor anymore, because the decision doesn't come to the city council. In order to 'climb' the simple analogue, you have made the decisions to be made in committees! Therefore, a part of democracy that could be extended, you have limited it even further. Because the logic of mere analogy leaves you indifferently, logic, that there must be consensus. We are now a big party. We're down to 31.5%. It's more than Sanchez took, who won the election. We know that with the simple analogue we will not have an autonomous government. That's why we suggest it, though. Because it is not in our mind that you can deal with the depreciation of politics, socialism - which I have described - and politics, with strong governments that do what they want, whenever they want, either centrally or as I have told you, at local level. The same applies to Greeks abroad. Thirty-two years I've been abroad. Since 1974 there has been a possibility of facilitating Greeks abroad and it has not been done. We put it first. And we put it as a facilitator, not a right, because the right was there. And I could at any time come to Greece and vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u333	We put it, Minister, in March 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u334	Yeah. From 1974 to 2016 it has several years, though. You don't say you were fast too! You're a little late, I think. You told me in 1986 to accept the intervention. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The alteration of politics by Greeks abroad must recognize it as a force. I think our proposal from the JRC was better. I think, however, that the JRC has caught a very large part of the need not to make this alteration by putting some filters on it. Because it is obvious to us that the result should not be altered by people who are not taxed, who do not care what the tax is and do not care if there are allowances. It is obvious to us that you must have a strong commitment to political results so that you can vote. To conclude, this result will not be confronted with depreciation of policy. I think that even the New Democracy cannot have seen this feeling that something does not like politics to ordinary people. Something doesn't like, especially young people and young people. You must have gotten this message. You may not have young children in your circle who are not interested in politics, who see that politicians are some who fight, who do "fighting" who cannot find consent. What we have proposed was a comprehensive proposal, consistently: to tackle the depreciation of politics and the social dimension of inequalities, that social contracts are always forgotten, and other contracts go to the top, but also to politics. I think that in one, two things New Democracy still has the opportunity to prove to your new, own voters that something has understood from these big changes that have taken place in the ten years of the crisis. The world expects a serious approach, not just from you, from all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u335	Before giving the floor to Mrs Papakostas, I would like to say this: Mr Kastanides and Mr Athanasios have asked me to take the lead from their turn because of an emergency. In other words, after Mrs Papakostas, Mr. Kastanides will be speaking, then Mr. Villardos will be speaking, and then Mr. Athanasios will be speaking. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u336	The House has agreed. Here, Mrs Papakosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u337	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to give an answer to what Mr Tsakalotos said just now, but also to my dear colleague, Mrs Christine. You asked us if it was our fault, if we recognize it was our fault. Mr Chakatou, you have asked whether we have any young people in our companies who are really unhappy about political things. I would like to remind you that you have a very large - huge share of responsibility. You promised election, but others did, not after a long period of time, but just the next day. You said you would smash the memorials and proved yourself to be memorial to the memorial.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u338	What are you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u339	You were electorally saying that you would exalt the economy and in a semester you charged the Greek economy with a hundred billion dollars. Whatever sins they have to apologise to the New Democracy, the PASOK and the other parties that ruled this place, you have exceeded us in six months. You, Mr. Tsakalotes, and your government, did a referendum, dragged the entire Greek society into suffering...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u340	In the referendum, what did you vote for?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u341	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u342	And the 'no' of society has turned it into a huge 'yes'. So you guys looked unreliable, and you have to apologize first of all. More important: In time of peace you signed the confiscated Prespecies Agreement and we do not allow you to move our fingers today. We are here today taking part in a leading political act, the debate on the articles on the Revision of the Constitution. This is a process imposed by the dynamics of times, but also by the need to evolve and to look at the important and useful things that everyday life now requires a review. Since 2009, we have had a painful adventure that the Greeks will find difficult to forget, an adventure that resulted from both financial derailment and a crisis at the qualitative, political and cultural level. This adventure must be our guide to our proposals so that we never again have to live at the same time and that we new Members do not need to apologise for something we could do and do not. I think that we will all agree that today we need a constitution that is open to seriousness, confidence, prediction and social justice. So I would like to talk to you from the Step forward and to refer to specific articles concerning the judicial protection of civil servants. Rule 62, in accordance with our proposal, is revised in the following logic: Parliamentary immunity is maintained as an institutional guarantee for the performance of the duties of the Member, but is limited solely to what is stated in his political activity. That is why we add the paragraph concerning the authorisation granted by Parliament to the Prosecutor to proceed with cases which are not linked to the exercise of duties or to the political activity of Members. I imagine it is clear that we all want and seek to upgrade the credibility and prestige of our political system. It is clear that the political system has also given rights. Ignorant or intentional, we have been exposed and it is now time to correct the errors. In this respect, it is appropriate to balance any disparities between citizens and Members of Parliament, while allowing Members to do their work without being a moving task of sues. Today is our chance to make things clear for ourselves and to protect our function. The revision of Article 62 in the direction of our proposal achieves this very result. In the same sense we are moving, in terms of Article 86(3). Our proposal, our suggestion to the House, removes paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 from Rule 86, which provides that Parliament may exercise its powers under paragraph 1 until the end of the 2nd Annual Session of the Parliamentary Period which starts after the end of the crime. On the substance of the matter we are proposing that the 2nd session should be abolished. What does that mean, practically? It means that the offences of the Ministers fall within the normal limitation applicable to all citizens, and there is no special treatment, nor is there any particular deadline for deleting acts. It is our fundamental obligation and essential requirement to upgrade credibility and transparency for the whole political system to abolish the special amortisation deadline. I do not think there is any colleague who has not heard what society itself is talking about. I do not think there is any colleague who has not been confronted with the citizens' questions on this matter. Finally, I do not think there is a colleague who does not understand the need to abolish the paragraph. It is worth noting that this proposal has been a proposal by Mr Mitsotakis since 2008. Today is the time to say all and all the great 'yes'. We are talking about two articles which are in the same direction, and we have to move on to these changes in order to make a clear message in society, which often drifts and misinterprets the data, a clear message that there is no unpunished status of politicians, a sense that is sometimes created. The revised points are therefore a substantive intervention by all of us, with the aim of upgrading the credibility of the parliamentary system, but also of our role as Members of the Greek Parliament. In this respect, the protection of the Member should be limited to acts relating to the performance of his duties alone. Ladies and gentlemen, the thematic section of Articles 54 and 56 of the Constitution refers to the electoral system, to the vote of Greek voters abroad, as well as to the blockades of Members' election. As a sovereign theme the national issue of the vote of Greek voters abroad is undoubtedly considered, and our constant pursuit is to enable Greeks abroad to vote from their place of residence. In this context, the axes set by the New Democracy for this purpose were initiated, with the dominance of the equitable vote of the Greeks who live abroad with those of the voters in the interior. The vote of the Greeks abroad will be equally counted against the final election result, like all other Greek citizens. In addition, Greek foreigners will vote for the party's vote on which they want and will increase the number of MPs from twelve to fifteen, so that the parties, if they so wish, will place themselves in election positions of candidates from abroad. Finally, the vote will take place in the local embassies and consulates of Greece and will require a personal presence of the Greeks abroad at the points where the polls will be based. Ladies and gentlemen, our country needs this constitutional reform more than ever, creating a modern model of effective democracy, releasing the country's creative forces. That is why the New Democracy proposes that these articles be put forward for review by this House, with the main aim of protecting our political system and of shielding it within a framework of credibility, respect, dignity, confidence and social justice. It is a common place that our Constitution needs interventions, corrections and - let me say the word - predictions and this is a point that comes to mark the concept of the Constitution's dynamics, its adaptation to the needs of modern times, as well as the time when the next Reviews will take place. Today we have to look to the side of the forecasting of the next day and be placed accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u343	Mr. Castanides from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, I thank you and all my colleagues very much because they give me the opportunity to speak at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, for many reasons Mr Chakalotos is a very nice man and I mean it. So the remark I shall make is made with all the sincerity of my feelings to him. I have watched you support the principle of three terms of office of elected Members. You know, if this principle were to apply in other countries, it would not have the luxury of leading the British nation by Winston Churchill in 1939-1940. If the two currently anticipated terms of terms were to apply to the American Presidents, the Americans would not have the leadership of their nation, with all the consequences that this would have, Franklin Roosevelt. They usually tell people that it is easier to defend their principles than to live according to them. I estimate that because you are a man you are not defending, but are living in accordance with your principles, regardless of the Constitutional Review, when you complete your third term will not be a candidate once again. I now come to the essence of the proposed provisions. In his recommendation this morning, our rapporteur, Mr Loverdes, made a series of critical remarks, including, to the majority, he said, by revising Article 54, we should try to formulate which is comprehensive and simple, because the way in which you suggest its review is problematic. Issues of the joint legislator should not be included in the constitutional provision. The second point I would like to make is that the rapporteur has presented a proposal this morning for the revision of Rule 62 on the immunity of Members. I must tell you that the proposal of the Change Movement has more political ambition and more political symbolism. I must say, however, to you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that I can see in the proposal you are proposing for the revision of Article 62, a realism from which I could also not be dismantled, even though for reasons of political esteem and symbolism the proposal put forward by our rapporteur for the Change Movement. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I come to Rule 86 on the criminal liability of the ministers. The whole political world agrees that the problem that emerged mainly after 2001 was, the time-limit laid down in this article of the Constitution, the abuse of which it was leading to society, but also to the conclusion that we should abolish it. So it is right to propose from the whole - if I am not mistaken - the abolition of the short amortization deadline. However, I would like to point out that it is incomplete, which we are trying to formulate. You all know very well, and all of you, ladies and gentlemen, that the possibility of setting up a preliminary committee of inquiry was a right to the individual majority of the Constitution and the Law on the liability of Ministers, but a right which was exercised during the post-multiple process, not always, but several times, with abuse. This was due to the intense political conflicts, which ended up in the intention of the majority to hold its political opponents hostage. We lose the opportunity to predict that the sending of a case-file by the competent investigating authorities and the prosecutor of the Ice Arrow in Parliament should not take place without delay, as the Constitution provides today, but after a torture of the data so that there is a legal and real material on which the majority will be supported, without party fanaticism. This opportunity we missed. But what's the chance we're left with? After the litigation has been sent from the Prosecutor's Prosecutor of the Ice Region to Parliament, we can provide, as a provision of constitutional law now, the duty of Parliament before the establishment of the preliminary committee of inquiry, the recommendation of an Advisory Council...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u345	The law provides for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u346	The law provides for it, I know it. My law provides for it, but I'll tell you what the problem is. Let us provide, as a provision of constitutional law, for the setting-up of an advisory board by senior judicial officers, who will make legal control of the category or categories and monitor the relevance of the data so that, once the preliminary committee of inquiry has been set up, it has an objective matter so that everyone can not, through party reasonable grounds, lead the procedure to the special court or not. Of course, Mr.3961, which I had the honour of proposing as Minister of Justice and was voted by a large majority in the House - I recommended him as Minister of Justice of the then government, but I have to say that he had the broad support of the Greek Parliament - it provides for a preliminary committee, an advisory board for the reasons I have explained, consisting of an Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay and two Prosecutors. Article 2 of Law No 3961 left no choice but to reject the idea of an advisory committee. Article 2 of Law No 3961 obliges the Advisory Board to be set up. In a magical way that does not honor the House, the parliament has turned the compulsory nature of the committee's recommendation into a majority, contrary to Law 3961. Since, therefore, we have the previous parliamentary majority in this Parliament to violate the law of the State and to enable the majority to form or not the Advisory Council, that is why my proposal to include in the revised provision of Article 86 the obligation to set up an Advisory Council in order to carry out, before the preliminary committee of inquiry is set up, the legal control of the charges and the substantive validity of the data.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u347	You mean to add to 86.3.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u348	At 86.3, because this is the only chance we have left. We are no longer left, since the "electrome" remains. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude with one comment. In the interpretative statement proposed by SYRIZA, there is a debate that I find useful. Of course, this interpretative statement I would like to tell you that I introduced it for the first time in the public debate and in the legislative work as Minister of Justice in 2011. In legislative work with the recital in Law 4022 on the covening of acts of corruption by politicians and state officials, which I had the honour of drafting with the association of top scientists of criminal and constitutional law, I delivered him to my successor, Mr Papaioannou, who made me the honour of proposing to Parliament. In the report by L.4022 for the first time, there is a distinction between crimes in the exercise of ministerial duties and those crimes which do not belong to this category. Please be careful, it's not exactly at the moment of the ministerial service.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u349	Like this. It's irrelevant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u350	Don't have a dialogue. Please, Mr. Castanides, we have to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u351	It's good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u352	It's going well, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u353	It's going well, but the list's not working.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u354	Your tolerance for half a minute and I shall end, Mr President, and thank you. Discrimination is as follows: In the exercise of ministerial duties, crimes are literally committed in the exercise of politics, i.e. in the exercise of public authority, which is awarded by the Constitution or the Law to a particular Minister or State Secretary and for a specific period of time. What is not in the exercise of ministerial duties is crimes committed by a Minister or a State Secretary who takes advantage of his ministerial status and of the advantages he gives him, without exercising public authority. That is why bribery can be regarded as a crime that does not belong to the exercise of awarded public authority, while infidelity is by act in the exercise of public authority which harms the property of the public. But now take note of something, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, and I shall end with that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u355	Yes, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u356	The introduction of the interpretative statement at the level of the Constitution does not resolve a matter. Can I tell you why? For once again his interpretation of "in the exercise of ministerial duties" belongs to the judge. The judge is the judge who will judge. On the contrary, in my view, it is important that the joint legislator should be given the power to formulate the relevant provision - I would like to believe - by unanimity. Thank you very much again, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u357	I would like to inform you of the following: Mr Kamines, Mr Pafilis and Mrs Bakadima as parliamentary representatives. We are one of the sixty-three Members who have joined, just seven. I don't know what happened, and for six hours we only got to seven. From now on, however, there will be no tolerance for any speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u358	What is foreseen, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u359	Until 12:00, Mr. Javarra. This has been said at the outset. There are 12 hours of discussions as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Twelve hours, maxim.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u360	I mean, whoever gets there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u361	We'll see. I expect the President to come from an event to consult, if we can go a little further. But it's not nice, whoever goes up on the Step to ignore the rest of the people waiting to arrive at 12 noon and to be on the number forty. Please don't make me take a vacation. As a Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u362	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the power of the European Union and of the world has been taken over by the financial markets, which have overcharged countries and citizens, have imposed globalisation, they want to abolish the national states and completely open the borders of the West, including through the Morocco agreement signed for Greece by SYRIZA, to turn workers into cheap debt slaves into their service. In this regard, in particular, immigrants are being used without knowing this either they or the citizens of their host countries as tools to serve the interests of 1% at the expense of the remaining 99% of people. What is true in this regard, the solution to the problem of the majority of people? The spread of political power downwards, to stop serving the markets and 1%. Immediate democracy, that is to say, so that politicians are not blackmailed and corrupted, since citizens will now decide on the laws they are concerned with, strictly controlling the parties that are being called upon to implement them. At this point we would like to express our disgrace at the slave attitude of our governments towards Germany, where not only do they not claim the German corrections which the Germans themselves have established are due to us, but not even the compensation from the fraud of the German automobile industry, known as 'Diselgate'. Its aim was to defraud the authorities and consumers for the sale of cars with a favourable tax regime, while Greece is the only country that has not demanded compensation, so that the European Union has started disciplinary proceedings against us. Even the German State claimed and succeeded in recovering compensation from its own companies. Of course, we have tabled a written question about this a long time ago, but we have no answer. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Our Constitution is now certainly not an exclusive case of constitutionalists, as many people may think, especially within the House and also in the media, who are used to manipulating citizens by imposing on them their wrong views. The same word also reveals to us that the rules of the Constitution are drafting the state, which means that they define the form of the political system in question, according to the bibliography. Therefore, the issue of the Constitution is primarily a political one and not a legal one. So it's not a case of experts, as they want to force us, but of all citizens. In this context, today's constitution has established the form of the political system, following the dictatorship, of the era known to all of us as the Migration. Unfortunately, however, the citizens did not participate in his writing, but the regime that has ruled Greece since then, in conditions of total opacity, familialism, partisanism, corruption and interlocutory. Thus, public money was looted, the citizens were corrupted to remain tolerant - including by appointments, whose goal was to maintain the political system firmly in power - the public debt was escalated and our country was overcharged, while the incredible betrayal of the PSI went bankrupt, lost its national sovereignty and was mortgaged on foreign forces. Today those who have led us to this painful situation want to save us. It follows that the crisis in which Greece has been submerged over the last decade is a crisis in the political system. So it will never be effectively fought for the benefit of the majority of the Greeks if the Constitution that defined its form is not radically changed. This change will take place in legislative, sooner or later, because history teaches that during times of crisis there is always a constitutional change. So this House may not want to do so by attempting a pretext to close the eyes of the world, but will not succeed. Which means that the few things that will be launched will not last, while this attempt involves the great risk of this change happening, violently, when no one expects it. Of course, this is extremely worrying for everyone who loves their homeland and does not want to be led to new adventures, and they do not want to be forced to leave it either, or their children, even if they have the opportunity, precisely because they love it. Now known as law, the introduction of the Constitution by the citizens, the only real change that, if any, would lead Greece to the right path and out of the crisis, could have the following stages: Firstly, public consultation on the Constitution begins by tabling the views of all the citizens of interest, as is the case with bills. Secondly, the preparation of public consultation by a group of specialised legal experts in order to group the proposals and put questions to a referendum. Thirdly, a referendum is held to decide on the change in the constitution and its main axes. Fourthly, the election of a constituent assembly to prepare the draft of the new constitution according to the axes of the referendum. Fifth, final referendum on ratification of the draft constitution. In this regard, perhaps some claim that the process is utopian, simply because they do not know that this is exactly what happened in Iceland, where its citizens after an exemplary consultation voted to introduce the country's new constitution. The fact that he protected them from the 2008 crisis is enough to convince us of his correctness. In addition, many other constitutions, such as Switzerland, France and Spain, require that the people vote directly in a referendum. It is therefore a disgrace for the mother of the Republic, for Greece, to be so anachronistic that the citizens are still on the margin of political life as a ravage of politicians. With regard to the proposal on the revision of Articles 62 and 86 of the Constitution, I have to say the following. In view of the morality of politics, Articles 62 and 86 of the Constitution have been chosen for revision. In the context of equal treatment for all, regardless of their status, i.e. if it is a Member, a Minister or anything else, the views that negatively criticise these provisions have been multiplied. They are described as anachronistic, unrestrictedly favorable and unfair because they offend the legal sense of equal treatment for everyone before justice. The parliamentary practice has so far shown that Parliament is hesitant to use these provisions. Our colleague, a special speaker of the Greek Solution, pointed out that between 1975 and 2005 approximately a thousand applications were made for the waiver of immunity from which only five were accepted. It is a figure indicative of the necessity of collecting a revision of the provisions. Unfortunately, it has been subjected to an inappropriate anti-democratic attack on the category of selectivity of the time period, which certainly did not happen since these were just the statistics available to us. It is really regrettable for Parliament and the Republic in our country, but above all for the government of the state of service. In any case, we have asked for new information so that it is more up-to-date. In any event, this leads to the fact that the parliamentary post must not be justified or justified in order for the Member to have immunity for criminal offences. He will not only be prosecuted for a vote which he gave to the House, for his speech within the House and for his opinion in the parliamentary term, since both his speeches and his opinions are not affected by any specific person with defamation. Further and proportionately, Article 86 of the Constitution requires not only revision but also abolition as a whole, so that everyone can be treated in a uniform manner and apply the laws to all. However, in view of the possibility of revising only specific paragraphs of this resolution, as decided by the House, it is preferable not only to abolish the short deadline but also to allow all parliamentary parties to submit a proposal for a preliminary examination against a minister. A smaller majority must therefore be provided for in order to establish a special parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary examination, such as 1/3 of the total number of Members, and the decision to refer is reasonable to be taken by a majority of Members present who must not be less than 2/3 of the total Members. In order to avoid doubts at an interpretative level, it is also proposed to introduce an interpretative declaration on the possibility of the investigating body to refer the case-file to the House, when the latter, up to the end of the interrogation, considers that there is now sufficient evidence to establish criminal liability of a government person. So what is happening today in the House, that is to say someone in the Committee of Inquiry on NOVARTIS, who had never been examined by a specialist before, would not have been able to examine it by us in the committee without any idea of how the investigation is being conducted, so that this party, which does not have the right people in the committee of inquiry, would be in a very difficult position. It's unfair, and it's gonna have to stop. In continuing, as regards the proposal on the revision of Articles 54 and 56 of the Constitution, I have the following to say. The current constitution allows the joint legislature to define the electoral system for the election of the parliament. Irrespective of the arguments developed by the supporters of the various electoral systems, we again emphasise that the simple analogue is, in our view, the best electoral system. It is also the simplest, clearest and fairest electoral system, since it represents the will and vote of Greek citizens in the most representative way. In this context, the mere analogous application, i.e. the absolute proportion of votes and seats, is seen by us as the best way of showing Members and sharing seats. Furthermore, the simple analogue system is entirely consistent with the 3% entry limit, in order for a party to enter the House. This is how the will of the Greek citizens gains the necessary cohesion and power within Parliament, after being translated into a parliamentary party. Furthermore, we are certainly in favour of the exercise of the electoral right by voters who are outside the Greek territory. The vote of the Greek Democrats concludes the electorate and practically recognises the Greek conscience that Greeks have. The vote of the Greek Parliament supports the genuine representation of the Greeks in the Greek Parliament. Let us not forget that the Greeks of foreigners love Greece much more than all of us, which I have seen many times. However, appropriate conditions should be provided for, but also for security controls to ensure the conditions for the proper exercise of the electoral right of the deportees, depending on the fair representation and electoral power of all the parties. Finally, and with regard to the blockades of Members' election, the parliamentary post must be declassified from any concept of profession and its operational character strengthened. In this context, there should be a definitive block of election as long as a person has been elected three times as a Member. In other words, no one should ever be allowed to be elected for the fourth time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u363	I now announce the six of my colleagues who will take the floor. If any of the parliamentary representatives who have not spoken, wants to speak after the six colleagues, tell me. Only Mr. Kamine I see in the Chamber. It's Mr. Athanasios, Mr. Mandas, Mr. Tsigris, Mr. Igoumenides, Mrs. Kefaliannis and Mr. Katrinis. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues for the order they gave me because of the miserable obligations we have in the Bureau. I wanted to say something to Mr. Chakaloto who's gone. Pythagoras' saying that politics is for everyone, it has another concept from all Pythagoras interpreters than the one he told us. It is not a matter of limiting Members' time. That's a rule. And those who are involved in classics know it. It is to be given equal opportunities to all, because then there were blockades in Ancient Greece with the plenipotentiaries, etc., so that nobody is excluded. That is the concept and not the one that Mr Tsakalotos has developed. Now, as far as the general part is concerned, due to the limitation that the President has put us into the articles. I'm starting with Article 62. I believe that we are making proper and proper arrangements here. It would be populism and a great mistake not to maintain the immunity of the Member as an institutional guarantee for the performance of his duties, but immunity should be confined solely to his political activity as a Member. That is why I believe that the proposed addition to Article 62 succeeds in finding the gold incision. It is true that this could also be achieved with the existing wording. However, the practice has shown that clearer wording was needed so that abuses do not occur because of the broad interpretation of Article 62 which we have already given. And, unfortunately, we all know that this has happened many times, especially when matters relating to criminal responsibility were raised by the ministers. The sum of the provisions on the reform of the regulatory framework concerning the criminal offences of the rulings is complemented by our proposal for the revision of Article 86(3) of the Constitution. Our parliamentary majority has come as a proposal to remove Rule 86(3)(3), paragraph 3, which stipulates that Parliament may exercise its powers under paragraph 1 until the end of the second ordinary session of the parliamentary term which starts after the crime has been committed. Our proposal therefore tends to the complete abolition of the deadline for the Second Session. What does that mean? That ministers are equitable with all citizens with regard to the issue of the limitation of offences and for which they may be accused. Therefore, no discrimination. Our proposal is an act of responsibility and has been a well-established position of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis for over a decade and reflects our view that Parliament can enter a new period of maturity. In addition to what Mr Kastanides said - I do not see him here - the first part, with which I agree with the rapporteur, Mr Javarras, has said on several occasions and we agree - I would like to say that this distinction which he makes with the 'on occasion' and which is 'important' in the second stage is wrong. For the benefit of the Minister, it's not just the Minister. Because that's where we revert to bribe in article 235 of the Criminal Code, telling us who he is who can do the crime. It is the official, the meaning of Article 235. So a head of town or medal, for example, can do the crime. It is therefore another matter, because the benefit may be to the Minister, it may be elsewhere and has nothing to do with it. It's just another matter. It is Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure which we do not understand. I have said many times also from other positions that there has been a proper change, following the suggestion made by the then President of Parliament, Mr Linos, and the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, of whom I then had the honour of leading, but also after the acceptance made by the then President of Parliament, Apostle Kaklamanis. So what does Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure say? That when a crime was detected, the Ice Bay Attorney - the Rules of Procedure said, he noted the difference - through the Minister of Justice sent it to the House. What then? A verse. The Prosecutor of the Ice Bay - I am saying what I am saying now - sends the case which he has examined with the Minister. So what will the Minister consider? The basicity of the charges, this filter that we say, however, never applied. He will not, of course, examine the font or the quality of the paper! It will examine this thing which, unfortunately, and my former colleagues have not applied it. We now go to the interpretative statement under Article 86 of the Constitution, which is proposed by SYRIZA, and which is the following. Be careful, within the true meaning of that article, that is to say, in the offences referred to in paragraph 1, it includes those committed only on the occasion of the exercise of ministerial duties. This interpretative statement is proposed for reasons of communication to be merely impressed because it has no legal but practical value, as I will explain. Let us see what they are seeking with this statement, but SYRIZA's colleagues: that the criminal offences committed by the members of the Government or the State Secretarys in the performance of their duties should be subject to the rules laid down in Article 86, rather than those carried out in the light of their duties. First of all, I would like to point out that I do not understand the notion of crimes by the Minister on the occasion of his duties. Really, in what particular category are these subjected to? It is something that not only the lawyers, but also the citizens. The Ministers either are offences in the performance of their duties, that is, their operational responsibilities which they cannot do, but only the Minister, and then they fall under Article 86 of the Constitution and the law, of course, on the responsibility of Ministers or not, and then they fall, like all citizens, within the common provisions. But they are asking for it to be said that in this wording a minister can be prosecuted for the offence of passive bribery, whether it is because of a legal act, or because of an illegal act that he has done - I do not have much time to explain it - to apply retroactively that the New Democracy and the Change Movement do not want this amendment to be persecuted in order to prevent specific persons being persecuted. But I wonder if that's not populism, what is it? Because, firstly, if such a declaration is made in the Constitution, it is only the judge and justice that will finally judge whether a crime is committed in the performance of his duties. He will judge it, as case law says. Secondly, will we give a retroactive force to a stricter law? We will be opposed to Article 7 of the Constitution and Article 7 of the Convention on Human Rights, the National Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Protocol and the ECHR. Finally, with regard to the passive bribery of the ministers, we have a rich case-law of the Supreme Special Courts, which says that this offence is carried out only in the performance of the Minister's duties. It is therefore a matter that has been judged legitimately. For the future, of course, it cannot apply because the whole of paragraph 3 is deleted. So it has no value and they cannot enter such provisions. Now, as far as the second section is concerned, I would like to say the following. Article 54 has developed it very well, both colleagues and Mr Javarras. I will just say a few things about Section 9, with regard to Article 56, which may not be the best way of ensuring that Parliament's parties are passed in constitutional terms on to the need for the Greeks to finally be given the right to vote abroad, but it was necessary, as Rule 51 - I want you to be careful - that was not, in my view, wrongly considered by the previous House. However, the regulation is within the constitutional framework and it comes to highlight the positive and negative aspects of a compromise. We all have our disagreements on the final result, but it is a result which we all can accept and which leaves us to a better degree than we were. Let me say that this is neither self-evident nor self-evident. He would even mention that he is rare in our legal order. And that was a great contribution from the Interior Minister, who made the necessary concessions, I would say, so that there could be a coalition. I have to say about the other articles, Mr President, but I know that I have to keep the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u365	You know the poorness of the President-in-Office! Thank you very much. Mr. Mandas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Constitution is undoubtedly a top parliamentary procedure, a process that touches the heart of our democratic culture. It is a rare opportunity to see again and to change basic elements of our democratic function, to correct old loose ends, to widen the field of democracy, but also to lay the foundations for our country's political, legislative and social development, to dare what the former have never dared. With the Constitutional Review, however, we also achieve another key objective: we are refocusing on society, we are listening to what is important for it and adapting the functioning of the culture to the new data, in line with the needs and priorities of our times. It is a fact that many of us would like a more brave constitutional review, which would correct more and leave no significant loose ends for the future. Unfortunately, this Review has lost a great opportunity, in my opinion, to include three very important points in our Constitution: environmental protection, so that we always take it into account in our legislative initiatives, budgetary rules and streamlined budgets, so that we do not have to relive monuments and tough measures, but above all allow our country to establish non-state universities. I am, of course, talking about the famous article 16, which would liberate higher education from the state monopoly, which would enable Greece to move into an international educational centre, with the benefit of billions of euros, which would create a new economic engine for our country and would dynamically support our Gross Domestic Product. Unfortunately, however, this window is closed. And it closed, because some decided not to give this possibility of the Review, where SYRIZA had the majority, but also the opportunity to prove that he was thinking about the good of the country and not of the party. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, once again you put brakes on the course of the country. And unfortunately, on another important subject you have been inferior to the circumstances and committed the country in a negative way for many years. Because if we are dealing with environmental and financial rules, we can intervene with our policies, in the matter of private universities, we have no real margin. We must therefore all accept that for at least another decade Greece will be taking the lead in education regression. It will perhaps be the only state in Europe without private universities. Today, however, in the context of this Review, we have other important possibilities, possibilities that will take the country forward and address the main issues of our culture. So we have the opportunity to permanently regulate the issue of the election of the President of the Republic and not to have the opposition to blackmail for early elections whenever it is in the interest of it. We are therefore putting an end to the work of the Presidential election, and we are ensuring that the country has four-year stable governments, as is appropriate in all mature democracy. We also have the opportunity to regulate the vote. And even though we would like to see a more brave approach here, and what applies to the people of Greece, it also applies to the landlords, but we will accept many of the proposals from the other parties in order to achieve the necessary majorities, because we and we know and can work together when the country demands it. Today, however, we have another important opportunity. We have the opportunity to reconstruct with the Greek society and to lay down new rules on how the politicians are treated by the judiciary. When we tell citizens that we want equality and dignity for all, we do not mean for everyone except politicians. When we talk about equal opportunities, equal rights and legitimacy everywhere, we do not mean legality everywhere except politics. When we invoke the law to enforce order, when we defend the rule of law and the independence of justice, we do not mean that the MPs and the ministers are above the law. Yet, the Greek society feels that others apply to it and others to its politicians. The Greek society sees the immunity of the MP and the Minister and interprets it as impunity and is annoyed by the particular parliamentary majority when it acts as a shield for the protection of its MPs for any crime. Thus, however, a breach is created between citizens and politicians, a breach that threatens parliamentarianism and democracy as a whole, because it consolidates the concept of 'all the same' to citizens. And the world, instead of being activated around politics, considers it a foreign body, deceives it and rejects it, thus giving food to populism and extremities. We must therefore restore this imbalance, but respecting the spirit of the Constitution and of the Republic, and ensuring that both the MPs and the ministers can do their job uninterruptedly, or any citizen who disagrees could sue a minister. And then it would be impossible for the country to be governed if, for every political decision, we also had a criminal procedure for violating duty. In this spirit, therefore, Article 62 and parliamentary immunity must be changed. That is exactly what we are doing, so that Parliament is now obliged to lift the immunity of a Member of Parliament automatically, since the offence is not linked to its duties and political action. Thus, no majority in the future will be able to force the irresponsible for its Members. At the same time, we must also change the framework for the responsibility of the Ministers, that is to say, Article 86, and also abolish any specific or favourable treatment on this point. So, the offences of the Ministers will no longer be recorded quickly, as we all know, but they will follow what is true of all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, with these interventions we are becoming the first government majority to limit the privileges of its current Members and ministers and we are proud of that, because for us society and politics must go hand in hand and what applies to them must also apply to us. As we leave behind the crisis of institutions and economic bankruptcy, so we must leave behind at the time of privileges and non-accountability, restoring citizens' confidence in our political system and ensuring that those who take up public positions do not hide behind limitations or immunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u367	Mr Angelos Tsigris and, as we have said, Mr Igoumenides, Mrs Olga Kefaliannis and Mr Katrinis will be followed. Mr. Tsigris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the Revision of the Constitution, a top parliamentary process, a leading moment for democracy. After a decade, today we are at the greatest moment in Parliament. The Revision of the Constitution takes place, after a decade of crisis that Greece has climbed to Golgotha, which has left wounds with overwhelming fractures in social cohesion, with the dissolution of social solidarity, with thousands of our fellow citizens retreating to live below the poverty line, with thousands of unemployed and thousands of young people studying abroad and others looking for jobs there. That is why the previous parliament was stubborn because it did not make its obligation to collect Greek students in our homeland and make Greece a centre for education and culture. Because it did not have the courage and determination to allow the establishment of non-governmental, non-profit universities. Only in Cyprus study five thousand students, many thousand in Italy, England, the United States, Canada, Germany. Greece bleeds, loses its best minds abroad, and these young people stay there, do postgraduate studies, work, make families and never come back. It is therefore a pretext for the saying of some - perhaps even hypocritical - that young people should return to Greece. Obviously, the country's constitutional charter does not allow the best piece of youth, which is abroad, to return home. Ladies and gentlemen, this decade, which, at the end of the day, takes place at a time when the Constitution left behind and enormous problems in the political class and political system and a generalized disdain for the political system and politicians, in the consciousness of the Greek citizens. That is not what all the measurements of the public say. The Greeks don't trust politicians, they don't trust politics. So what don't they trust? Those who may change something at the place, because that is where any change to good or evil begins. So one cannot welcome the honourable Member's and the Minister's equation with the citizen, with regard to their criminal treatment. The criminal treatment of Members and Ministers should be more stringent than that of the citizens, because we are here on a specific mission and we have a duty to observe the oath we have given and to be the guardians of legality. When we violate it, the law must be even more stringent, not more diligent, not giving guarantees of immunity or limitation windows. So a brave step has been taken and may help restore the lost honor of the political world. So one cannot welcome the changes to Articles 62 and 86 of the Constitution. I hope and hope that, like all Greek society - on Monday, these mistaken choices made yesterday - will always, definitively and irrevocably, be a past. Ladies and gentlemen, the decade that passed, however, also left overwhelming fractures in the spine, in the backbone of Greek society, in the middle house, in the daily human being. Thousands - one million, they say the measurements - our fellow citizens have lost their jobs in a very short time. Many of our fellow men had neither a living nor a pocket money for their children to get a coup in school. In my personal view, ladies and gentlemen, the most important contribution of this Review, the greatest leap made by the editorial legislator, is Article 21 and the introduction of the minimum guaranteed income? No Greek beneath the poverty line! And that's what the Constitution says now. This must be our new'social contract'. This is something that must unite us all. No family leaves a child of fasting while everyone else eats. So we have to see Greece. As a large family of 11 million people who must at least have a decent standard of living, the right to dignity. This will ease the pain of many of our fellow humans. Suffice the declaration, and it is enough to make a decision to take the step, leap and legislative, constitutional, anticipation, reality. After all, this is what Canada did thirty years ago, when a great visionary committed himself to: "A house and a job for all Canadians". And if I'm accused that Greece isn't Canada, I'm going to answer that Canada wasn't the way it is today. Today, however, it is the most coherent and mutually united society in the world. It's a western society that allows competition. It does not have a ceiling, but it has a ‘top’. Nobody below the poverty line. They've all decided that together, and they've done it. That is what makes our Constitution today and I am proud to be a member of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for Greeks to return to Greece, however, the seven million of our compatriots who live outside the border (a Greek who lives outside the border) should not be regarded as Greeks as second-class. That is why they must have the right to vote, at least. Because they offer a lot. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The homosexuals offer large services to Greece. They're doing a silent thing to help our country, and we're closing the door to them. We are not giving them the opportunity to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u369	Finish, Mr. Cigri. HELP Tsigkary: So the vote of the Greek expatriates. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to find what unite us in order for Greece to have a better constitution than it had up to now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u370	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, thirty students and schoolchildren and four of their school attendants from Corinus Pieria High School. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're going with Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenides from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are taking part in an important, topical, process that has been described as a process of civilisation and therefore, in the future of the country. I believe that in this debate it is present - it could not be done otherwise - the experience of all of us since the last decade. You're going to tell me, but are you messing with the memos now with the constitutional review? We must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that state sovereignty, national independence many times were swinging, hearing the danger of being completely mocked when Eurogroup and Euro Working Group decided, imposed decisions, replaced, replaced the Greek Parliament and the government many times in this decade, outside any democratic legitimacy. We must not forget that workers on this path of this decade have been found without the umbrella of protection of collective agreements and a lot of other discrimination, such as the distinction between young and old workers. I could say too many examples. I think what we need to keep and what we cannot miss out of our debate is that in this last decade we have had an attack on labour, an attack on democracy, an attack on the social state. In this sense, the Revision of the Constitution is an opportunity for the wider democratic and progressive forces of the country. SYRIZA, in his proposal, is not ignored and could not ignore the need for wider consent. At the same time, SYRIZA, the Left, cannot be prevented and could not dismiss our call for deepening democracy, for the expansion of popular participation and popular sovereignty, for the protection of political and social rights from the neo-conservative attack, for the restoration of the credibility of politics. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, we want a democratic, progressive review. That's our proposal. Here is the heart of our disagreement with the conservative faction. It is not, that is, "we suggest bravely and suggest cowardly Review" or "return". It's not a question of a proposal for cowardly, scared or brave Review. Our proposals and ours and the conservative party have a specific social, class mark. That is why we have a different approach to the various issues, apart from the fact that - badly lies - the New Democracy is even degenerating this - as its speakers have said - top of the civil process, for example, what we are talking about in today's sitting. The perfect ones, the long to rule! With a pre-election commitment from the current Prime Minister himself to voting for the results, this provision which we will now end up with just now was given to Parliament's wings. I want to come to Article 86, which we are discussing today. Of course, the short deadline for amortization is abolished by the article. At the same time, we are proposing - and there has been a lot of discussion - the interpretative statement, which should be made quite clear - that offences do not include what has been committed in the course of the ministerial service. I'm not a lawyer. I don't intend to be a lawman. I shall, however, try a political approach to this issue. Why do we consider the interpretative statement necessary? Because there is no point, ladies and gentlemen, in protecting the Minister who - let me say - 'take it up', because now that society wants justice to be attributed to the great scandals that afflict the place, it is clear and crystal clear that the ministerial duties do not belong to bribery. Why disagree New Democracy and KINAL with our proposal? He said before, Mr Athanasios from New Democracy did not have retroactive effect and legally explained why. I believe that only that is mentioned is an insult to democracy. Throughout political life, it is so that it should be, simply, clean and clear. It's not the Minister's duty to bribe. Apart from what everyone says, let me stand - and I will close my speech - and what happens, what we do, what we live, in some, four topics. These days, now that we are discussing the Constitutional Review, the New Democracy amends the Criminal Code to make its friends bankers oil. Below: Now that we are discussing the Constitutional Review, New Democracy amends the Criminal Code and Mr. Fruzzis, Mr. "NOVARTIS", the man of "NOVARTIS" in Greece, says and answers that he will ask his lawyer if he is concerned with the change proposed and decided by the New Democracy to freeze his frozen accounts. I continue: Now that we are discussing the Revision of the Constitution and the article on the responsibility of the Ministers, the central banker, the deceased, who otherwise does not intervene in politics, said to ERT that there is no 'NOVARTIS' scandal. In my village they call it "the wolf keeps the sheep". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Below: What happened these days we're talking about? Yesterday the decision was made - fourteen years later! - for Siemens. I will not dwell on the "wonderful speed" of Greek Justice, nor will I be standing on whether Mr Tsukatos was acquitted as a result of the limitations. But I have two questions to ask to both sides. Many do not remember or do not know what Tsukatos was during the period he participated - in his way - in the political life of the country. But not one of them, from PASOK, felt the need, does not feel the need to tell the Greek people where this one million marks went? Not one? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] After 14 years, therefore, the decision on 'SIEMENS' was taken, but Mr 'SIEMENS', the SIEMENS Guard, Christoforos, is abroad. He left day after day with a New Democracy government. Not one of your resignations feels the need to apologise to the Greek people about how Christophobus left, why did Christophobus leave? Not one? Look, gentlemen, let's not be fooled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u372	And that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u373	I'm closing, Mr. President. Literally. On the occasion of Article 86, we can and must put an end to a case that takes the honour and reputation of the political system. The House must send out today the message that all cases - together with the old cases of bribery - remain open and incomprehensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u374	Mrs Olga Kefalayannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u375	Ladies and gentlemen, the process of constitutional review, beyond a crucial legal project, is above all a top political issue, as it must reflect the collective interest in line with the changing social needs, new trends and challenges of modern times. The legislator himself provides for broad majority voting on the Revision of the Constitution, thereby claiming broad political dialogue, compositions and consensus during this highest parliamentary procedure, particularly in a critical national period, such as the one we are experiencing, during which the country has been faced with the greatest economic crisis since the post-war period, a crisis of budget that has become institutional and worthwhile, a crisis of national orientation with phenomena and regular populism, to bring the country into dangerous crossroads. At this juncture, the constitutional review could and should have been the new national compass of progress and institutional modernisation, being the guarantor of social and political equilibrium and, of course, of social justice. Unfortunately, the nominated parliament has not succeeded in lifting to the height of the times. Thus, the opportunity for future generations to develop constitutionally, the need for sustainable and sustainable development, the quality of legislation, and above all, for more academic freedom, more opportunities for higher education, an opportunity to bring Greece and its culture to the heart of the international educational market. Ladies and gentlemen, this Review could certainly have brought more and more quality guarantees for the Greek society. The fact that this was not possible is based, to some extent, on the lack of cultural cooperation and convergences in the Greek political system, which, of course, is a prerequisite not only for the constitutional review process but also for the debate 'to ensure the implementation of the simple analogue system', as proposed by SYRIZA for Article 54(1) of the Constitution. The big question on this issue is one: is the country currently in need of political stability or of more parliamentary pluralism in the context of the analogue system and, indeed, when the necessary conditions of cooperation do not thrive? We know very well that in Greece the implementation of the analogue system in the late 1980s cost political instability, instability, polarization. It is a system that can halt the implementation of an integrated government programme, since it allows for cooperation that, if necessary, can smuggle the popular verdict. It is clear that the attempt of the Officerial Vice-President to have a constitutional picture of simple analogues is based, once again, on micro-party interests. The electoral system currently in place adequately protects both parliamentary pluralism and the absolute need for the place of government stability. In any case, electoral law must remain a case separate from the Review of the Charter and not work for party benefit. With regard to paragraph 4, of Article 54, on the vote of Greek Democrats, this is certainly a matter of top importance for Greece and the Greek nation. It is already provided for in the current Constitution in Article 51(4) by a law which requires a broad consensus of two-thirds of Members. The New Democracy has supported both in the past - the Pavlopoulou Act, the Stylianidis Initiative 2013 - and recently, the right to direct and universal participation in the parliamentary elections. The vote of the Greek-democratic Greeks is a key means of reconnecting Greeks outside the country, with what this implies for strengthening and restoring family and economic ties. The whole project certainly requires special attention in terms of the constitutionality of individual, key issues, such as who, how and who will vote. But it is certain that the first agreement on the vote of Greeks abroad unites the Greeks and increases Greece. And this certainly goes beyond which - and possibly well-founded - objections to the procedure. It is confirmed by the fact that Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Responsibility for Ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that the main bet on the political life of the country is the restoration of citizens' trust in the political system, democratic institutions. One of the main issues raised during the revision process in this direction is the question of parliamentary immunity, Article 62 of the Constitution, as well as the question of 'departmental responsibility', Article 86 of the Constitution. For Rule 62, the parliamentary majority had chosen to maintain the immunity of the Member as an institutional guarantee for the free and uninterrupted exercise of the duties of the Member, but limited solely to his political action as a Member. This addition further strengthens Parliament's obligation - even in accordance with the current constitution - to lift parliamentary immunity in respect of offences not related to parliamentary office. In the same direction as the further modernisation of the institutional framework, on the basis of the limitation of Members' privileges, the proposal of the parliamentary majority for Article 86 of the Constitution, with the complete abolition of the deadline for the Second Session, is initiated. In fact, this means that the offences of the Ministers fall within the normal limitation for all Greek citizens. Of course, we all know - and we need to take this seriously - that in the exercise of ministerial duties there are increased risks of unfounded accusations and persecution. The moral extermination of the political opponent from the start to the end of a court proceedings is rarely free of temporary political purposes. However, the institutional areas introduced by this Constitutional Review meet the current social needs to protect the fundamental principles of equality and equality in citizens' rights and obligations. Once again, SYRIZA - as it did during the parliament proposed - sought to work on the review process. He once again restated an unsuccessful interpretative statement which he proposed to the House on this article, which attempts to retrospectively separate Parliament's competence for offences in the course of ministerial duties and not on the occasion of them. Ladies and gentlemen, both in Article 54 and in Articles 62 and 86 of today's debate, but also in other articles before or after that, consensus has been reached on key political issues, proving that the consolidation of cooperation and understanding means, above all, political responsibility and the foundations of social progress. The political forces must continue to strive for a more democratic dialogue and a united stance. It is the only way to get out definitively from the time of philanthropy and populism, which have affected the confidence of the Greeks and cost us very expensive. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis, and for the exact amount of your time. Mr Michalis Katrinis has the floor from the Change Movement, and the next three are Mr Liakos, Mr Burnus and Mr Baromethos. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u377	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] As we speak of the Review of the Constitution, which safeguards and safeguards the rights of our fellow citizens, I will be allowed, Mr President, to speak as an 11th speaker and to speak more than seven hours after the start of the sitting, to say this: at some point we have to agree and ensure that the rights of colleagues speak at the time they say are not violated. And, unfortunately, this has become our normality. I doubt that the remaining forty-eight Members, who are still on the list, will be able to speak until the end of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today on the fourth day of the debate of a top parliamentary process, such as the constitutional review, a process that has been exhausted in artificial polarisation between New Democracy and SYRIZA, which in this way demonstrates that they see this top process as a field of party and only a matter of purpose. What needs to be considered for all of us is whether the citizens have shown interest in this process since the previous parliamentary term or are interested in the process that is unfolding today and all these days in plenary. And, of course, this question is rhetorical, because the answer is that people's interest and attention to this process and to these issues is, unfortunately, moving to a very low level. That's why we're all responsible. Most of all, however, the responsibility lies with those who kept the citizens out of this top process, those who adapted and restricted the revised provisions in a field of interests and certainly far from the real needs of both the country and society. Because we will all agree that this is, unfortunately, a reckless attempt at constitutional revision. It is lacking in refreshing breath and the strength that would strengthen the institutions even more, it would give prestige and further democratic legitimacy. In fact, this is a lost opportunity to strengthen the country's position in a world that is progressing rapidly and to do so through the charter called the Constitution. We, as a Movement of Change, expressed our opposition to the attempt to devaluate the whole process, calling for the widest possible consensus on institutional matters, the strengthening of citizens' rights and the consolidation of the rule of law. Today's meeting concerns the revision of articles relating to the right of vote of Greeks residing abroad, the framework of parliamentary immunity, but also distortions that have been recorded in the issue of the amortization deadline in Article 86. On both of these last issues we must be particularly careful, since they are inextricably linked to the authority and credibility of the political system. In relation to Rule 62 and the regulatory framework governing the immunity of Members, the position of the Change Movement - as has clearly been formulated by our rapporteur - is the Members themselves who are asking for the protection of this House only when they consider their persecution to be politically motivated or abusive. And it is clear and self-evident that this possibility is not provided when prosecution is persecuted for self-righteous felony. So the responsibility is transferred to the Member instead of the House, as it stands today. In this way Members are treated equally and in the same way as citizens are faced with justice. Only if their prosecution is linked to the exercise of political or parliamentary activity will they be able to obtain parliamentary immunity. This should not, of course, make the Members hostage to any threat of legal action or be permanently subject to the threat of persecution either in relation to their political choices or even to their verbal wordings, which may disturb them, but they are neither insulting nor insulting. Otherwise, their role is cancelled at the end. At the same time, however, there should be no incriminating contribution to the committee, but also to the National Representation, when it is called upon to consider such cases, in the fear that, in the event of the provision of parliamentary immunity, it will be involved in allegedly overlapping. This means that it should, in essence, be considered if the case under investigation falls within the limits of the exercise of political and parliamentary activity and not the committee of Parliament to examine the validity and content of the case. And, of course, not to decide at the expense of a certain popular outrage in the event of a decision to grant immunity. Alas, if, in the right logic of bringing Members into the common criminal law, there is an uncertain logic that, for any public position or political choice, the Member will be threatened with a case-file, with both his or her activity and his or her reputation. As far as Article 86 is concerned, there has been too much ink and has been the subject of strong political confrontation, but - you will allow me to say - and of intense political exploitation for many years. First of all, we agree that the change in Article 86 is necessary. It is encouraging that there is agreement by the overwhelming majority of the House's wings to remove the amortisation deadline laid down in Rule 86 and the Parliament's ability to prosecute. Of course, this will be applied in a setting which has not been convinced of the presumption of objectivity, a strong political scene, which should make proper use of this provision - if and if it is revised, as we believe - rather than trying to prosecute it to politically prosecute the parties or individuals. In relation to the right to participate in the parliamentary elections of Greek citizens residing abroad, we have long since - since the first time - put forward four basic principles: to have the right to vote for all those on the electoral lists. The vote of the Greeks who are staying abroad, counting equally with the rest of the voters, because some other parties started from a different position at the outset - and there was a chance of a letter of vote. Also elected by Greek foreigners in special electoral districts or in a special foreign constituency. I believe that Article 54 should provide for legislation specifying the conditions for applying the right to vote for Greeks abroad and not introducing unauthorised restrictions, such as those relating to income or assets, which contravene the provisions of Article 51(3) ‘Globalisation of voting’. The exercise of the highest democratic right should not lead to such restrictions. The revision of Rule 54 is perhaps a bright exception to a shallow and inappropriate review procedure, which of course remains to be confirmed by the final provisions of the draft law which, as we have heard, will be tabled in the next few days in Parliament. With regard to Rule 56, and I shall end with it, Mr President, in relation to the proposal for a maximum term of office, an issue which of course sounds pleasant to the ears of some who have become addicted to the rhetoric of a simplistic and isotope populism, I believe that it has already been answered in Western democracies and in cases where the limited terms of reference apply this usually concerns the one-faced bodies exercising government power, such as the American or French President. And if those who tabled the proposal were honest, - I am referring to SYRIZA's colleagues - they would have to accompany it with restrictions on terms of terms both as regards the position of the Prime Minister and others as regards those who exercise government power. It is not worthy because in the debate on Article 56 there has been no mention, at least if I have read the Minutes correctly, of the need to change the obstacles referred to in paragraph 1, and who are those who really influence today on the electorate's body at the time of modern mediation, as well as why university professors continue to be excluded from the obligation to resign like all other state and public officials, which, unfortunately, has not been affected and has not been explained in this process. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the need for a brave Review is not fulfilled by the procedure that is being completed on Monday. The country needs a modern and functional constitutional charter based on the principles of freedom and the rule of law, it will promote the logic of open society and set a fair and rational regulatory framework for citizens' rights and obligations in the era of the Second Industrial Revolution. That should be the objective of the process that is completed on Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u378	And hang up with this, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u379	All of us are aware that, unfortunately, this objective has not been achieved and that is a responsibility for all of us. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u380	Ladies and gentlemen, with the agreement of the President of Parliament, because the list will not be exhausted, I asked him to do the following thing: at 00.00 p.m. we will be closing down and all colleagues will not speak tonight, tomorrow, as you know, is unity on the provisions abolished. Therefore, it will be seen today as an end to the debate, but those of the Members who do not want to speak today want to talk about the specific articles which we are discussing today will be before tomorrow morning, speaking and presenting their views so that at least you can 'feel out' about the fact that you are so long ago and you do not have time to speak. We're moving on with Mr. Evangelos Liakos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like today to devote my speech to young people, to all those who have emigrated abroad the period of the crisis to find jobs, but also to all those who have stayed and fought within the walls for the future theirs and their families. Over time, young people have always been ahead of their times, but at current growth rates, developments often go far beyond us. So imagine how much an inefficiency and misery are affected within the modern globe of evolution, a state like ours that is known to all pathogens keeps it anchored in the port of inefficiency and misery, when the whole world moves forward at a speed of pace. That is why, as Greeks, we do not have the luxury of losing the opportunities that we are given for radical restructuring where they are needed. We need a modern, strong and flexible state that guarantees citizens prosperity and social cohesion. Given that the main pillar of a democratic state is its Constitution, after establishing constitutionalism in the consciousness of society as the fundamental and necessary criterion of political legitimacy, its review is a top political process that aims or should have its modernisation. With the bold and regular initiative of the previous government, in my view, certain articles of the Greek Constitution are now being reviewed. Article 110 refers to the need for revision, a need which is clearly created through evolution. And because SYRIZA - ANEL and evolution are not going together, today's House has lost a great opportunity for radical and broad review. For example, Article 16 for non-State universities: it is absurd, considering that all of us accept that Greece has all the geopolitical skills but also an excellent human potential to develop into an international training centre. The ideas of the previous government, however, have also been denied this opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, even with these few possibilities, which the Review gives us, we have to admit that the committee responsible has done an excellent job and that colleagues' contributions are very interesting. All of them can improve the lives of the Greeks, strengthen the country's position, shield the democratic city, ensure government stability, while constitutionally establishing the solidarity of the state with the economically weaker. With regard to the revision of Article 54 and the much-discussed vote of the Greeks abroad: It is possible that the compromises that have been required, on whose altar the epistle vote has been sacrificed, have disappointed many of our fellow citizens, but we cannot accept that in any case the solution of today's approach is a great step towards the strengthening of world Hellenism, because, as has been quite rightly said, the Greeks are very few to be separated. And because the main aim of all that we have been discussing this week is the institutional shielding of the civil society, I cannot imagine any stronger shielding of the civil society than the mass involvement of the people in the electoral process. That is why I believe that this initiative must be voted on unanimously. Unfortunately, however, it is not only the widening involvement of the citizens, there must be an additional condition, their non-return from it, because their confidence in our political status has been shattered, and we will all agree that we have a duty to restore it, because the citizens of this country are the only reason why we are here today. We must all admit that mistakes have been made, both in the past and recently, justifying this abomination. The inappropriate functioning of Articles 62 and 86 is certainly one of them and, in particular, Article 62, which enables Parliament to lift immunity, has not been given a strong political will to be implemented over time. This amendment, which protects the honourable Member only for his role as a Member, but also for his political activity, is considered to restore to a great extent the public's sense of law. Her vote will give a clear signal that endless impunity is over. However, the final verdict will be judged by the application of parliamentary immunity, since it will in practice prove that there will be no citizen, not even a Member of Parliament or a Minister who enjoys particular treatment or protection from justice. In conclusion, I would like us to consider how strong a message of stability and solidarity would send a unanimous vote of all this on both domestic and abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u382	The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Delimination of the energy market, and modernisation of PPC, privatisation of PPA and support for RES". Mr Ioannis Burnos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the debate on the Constitutional Review, the government is acting as if you did not understand the changes in Greek society and its relationship with the policy that took place during the period of economic crisis. You're done with the square mobilisations accusing SYRIZA of allegedly subjugating at the top of the Syntagma Square the emergence of Golden Dawn. That's why even today you can't understand, and some of you who can't, the reasons for your triple exemplary defeat for the first time in history from the Left in 2015. Specifically, what you cannot understand or accept is that in the unprecedented 2011-2012 popular mobilisations and beyond these citizens, including thousands of traditional voters, have not been uprooted, they have not abandoned the shot of their sofa solely for reasons of economic surfing and survival, as a result of the loss of one quarter of national GDP in 2010-2014. During this uprising, the demand for radical changes in the way democracy works in our country was exemplified. This has not only been restricted to demand for contraceptives. He then opened a great Vendal request for democratization, transparency and accountability of elected representatives of the people, MPs and ministers. Proposals for irreversibility, the introduction of terms, the people's initiative to legislate and many other top issues of democracy shielding and deepening have been put on the table many times contradictory to each other, but this was perfectly logical in a historic phase of unprecedented civilisation with political things, many of which for the first time in their lives. This richness of this massive popular consultation you, with your proposals, not only deny it, but pretend that it has never existed in our country. The only reflex is the debate on the people's legislative initiative, a proposal that you are trying today to dehydrate, make it harmless against the monopoly of your own - supposedly - authority, since public statements of your own people still ring in our ears that the poor decide wrong. You are, moreover, part of a European political area that has played the leading role in the conversion of large parts of European societies to 'non-citizens', to remember Balibar, to the glorification of the democratic deficit and, as a result, the crisis of representation in each area separately and in total in the European Union. At the level of the European Union, to provide only one example, it was your place that completely dehydrated the so-called 'Citizens' initiative provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon, promoted by the European Parliament as a hopeful establishment of collective intervention by European citizens and then the Conservative and neoliberal European Commission has taken care to put so many obstacles in place to make it practically weak and impossible. In contrast to the idiosyncratic perception of today's conservative and neoliberal space about the functioning of democracy, we are moving, we, who have legislated on the simple analogue, the vote at seventeen, but have dared to make a historic referendum for the first time since 1974, which you are insisting, even today, that you bend and characterize as invalid and illegal, bringing the Greek people back to the fore then. Even if we were forced into a hard strategy of retraction at the expense of the barbaric extortion by your European counterparts and bankers on the days following the referendum, what still haunts you and will continue to haunt you is 61.31%. And at this very point is where the nuclear and incompatibility of visas for democracy is identified between the neoliberal right and the left. In the first Review House, the proposing one, we tried to bring a deepening of democracy to all levels in the top of the constitutional review process, proposing a constitutional guarantee of fundamental social rights, guaranteeing simple proportionality as the most democratic and unadulterated electoral system of the electorate, the right to a hundred thousand citizens in popular legislation, the imposition of parliamentary immunity, the religious neutrality of the state, including the ban on discrimination based on sex and sexual orientation, but also the change of the shameful provisions of Article 86 on responsibility of ministers, to remember just a few examples. And you come today to incorporate another constitutional review hiding under the carpet of the debate on the deepening of democracy and bailing in the House for the non-revision of Article 16, with the sole concern of opening up business friends of your universities - supermarkets with the sole argument of money. But we insist on the essentials. Refugee along with the Change Movement - he will also have his reasons - to accept our interpretative statement on Article 86, because you want to muddle and lead to deletion of the "NOVARTIS" scandal and any other future scandal. Because for you, the misagent is included in the ministerial jub description. Refugee the constitutionalisation of the simple analogy, although we have accompanied it with our proposal for a constructive motion of distrust, so that the unadulterated expression of the popular will can also be guaranteed, but also a relative governmental stability. You, who pretend that your return to governance means returning to normality, assessing your double-election defeat in 2015 as a "standard election accident", fear the unadulterated relocation of popular will to institutional representation in the House. Refugee the inclusion of the ban on gender discrimination and sexual orientation, even backwards in relation to your position in the first Review Proposing House. You are working on the election of the President of the Republic, suggesting an irregularity in relation to what was decided in the parliament's proposed election by a relevant majority, neglecting the need to increase the legitimacy of the regulator of the constitution. Refugee the constitutional guarantee of fundamental social rights that we have proposed, including protection against extreme poverty, protection of the child, the disabled, the elderly, those without private housing. You are claiming that the minimum guaranteed income you are proposing is enough in itself as a tool to combat extreme poverty, with Mr Brutsi saying to Parliament that the average provision per household is EUR 213 per month, while you are making sure that you are interested in the poor. You want, in other words, to constitutionalise extreme poverty, when we have implemented social solidarity income and increased social welfare costs from EUR 1.4 billion, which we found, to EUR 3.5 billion, when the country was still under budgetary suffocation. With the primary government's responsibility and squeeze from the Change Movement another constitutional review will remain in history as another lost opportunity for changes in the Constitution that would pave the way to a different, more inclusive functioning of the democratic culture and the democratic system. We will continue the institutional and social struggle for the defence and deepening of democracy at all levels, even against the weather, even at a historic time when the international sphere is dominated by trambo authoritarianism, the reappearance of coups and designs for Banana Republics and the institutional dismantling of social and democratic acquired rights on European soil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u384	Mr. George Born in Step. The next trinity is Mr. Antoniadis, Mr. Nikolakopoulou, Mr. Aylonite.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr President. With this, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Javarras said this morning, Saturn's time came and Zeus came to the fore with the 'king of need'. Several centuries later a great man said that from the 'base of need' we must move on to the 'king of freedom'. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u386	I liked it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u387	However, the only thing that proved to be the way there toward the 'king of freedom' is a great one. And in this reading it proved that the country of orange pheasantry, Greece, has some issues that look endemic, such as corruption, which at some point went to metaphysical dimensions. What is this phenomenon? Is this the curse of the nation? That's kind of a pedestrian thing. The JRC says "Capitalism is, what do you expect it to produce? Corruption will produce. Rodonero will produce capitalism?’ The truth is that, in whatever system, it was applied, vaccine to completely eliminate corruption was not found. In fact, too - perhaps greater - it is that in the free market, corruption is seen as an element of competition. I mean, the man who gives the money doesn't feel like he's doing something wrong, but he's dealing with competition. It is also true that all countries do not have the same indicator of corruption. Others have very large, others less and others show the phenomenon controlled. Greece was and is - it was before bankruptcy - in a high index of corruption. Here let me tell you that it was not so unknown. Let me invoke a witness from a man above all suspicion of the New Democracy, but who is not in life for that and I will not say his name. Sometime in contacts with the journalists one of them was me. Before the crisis, several years, he was no longer in the government and he had ceased to be the leader of his party, he tells me: 'What's going on? This is where the universe rots. Honest people will do nothing?" Before the crisis, before the Tsohazopoulou phenomenon was revealed, before the 'SIEMENS'. I say to him: 'Listen, Mr President, whatever debate we are having, the cycle will be closed and we will conclude that responsibility is burdening the political leadership, and that ultimately has responsibility'. The crisis came, we suffered the shock and Mr Pangalos comes and says 'we have eaten it together', and he wants to democratise corruption. It wasn't a simple attempt to spread responsibility. It was a very serious thing. That is to say, since the Planning Officer has to take 2,000 euros to proceed with a case, why not take 2 million? But here's where the money isn't enough and we've come with that logic to a jungle where the bankruptcy came and it turns out that the money isn't enough for everyone to eat. What was the worst? That the burdens of the crisis, the costs were paid by those who did not eat. The others who had eaten this way together somehow made her a bit difficult during the crisis, I think. We are now coming to Article 86. Can an article alone guarantee the elimination of the phenomenon? Oh, no. But is it not a question of honour for the political system to do everything in its power to minimise the chances of such a phenomenon? And the rapporteur of the New Democracy comes along and the main argument he put forward on SYRIZA's proposal that it was "show self-evident". And who told you that in Greece this selfless thing isn't America's discovery? But not just that. And why don't you do it self-evidently to show that the political system has come to the conclusion that whoever burns in the batter blows yoghurt? Why don't you do it? Why don't you accept this proposal, the minimum that, after all, looks like it doesn't cost you? You say it's self-evident. But there's something underneath. The fava has a pit, because it coincides with various other moves that we have heard in the last few days, where it is announced that the corruption prosecutor will take the case. Some people know that. Here is the question: Was the election result the swimming pool of Siloam? Can democratic legitimacy override legitimacy? Can this happen? In other words, I ask a question to the people who voted for New Democracy: what was the point of their vote? That from now on you get a white check and do what you want on the corruption issue? And if that happens, then the repetition of history in this way, where are we going to drive? Who's gonna be responsible? You know, it's a great delusion that anyone in power thinks it's eternal and that the traces he's going to leave can be covered backwards. That's not true. She's the biggest of all the delusional ones. I now come to another matter. A colleague somehow tried to raise the issue - from New Democracy - but he came up with a heavy conclusion on minimum social income, that is, a social contract. Apart from trying again to mislead, overthrow and reverse the reality of what is true of the minimum social income, when the then coalition had made this proposal since 2001, when it had come back with a proposal for a law that the New Democracy's party had stubbornly rejected, it now comes up and says that with the minimum social income we have a social contract. Reality is far from there, it's not true. It's a lie, especially the way the New Democracy presents it. We say: SYRIZA did the CRL, the Social Income of Solidarity. Along with this, he framed it with some other social policies. And most importantly, we are now coming to the constitutional review and SYRIZA says: along with this, we have the freedom to guarantee the access of these people who do not have a destiny in the sun in social services and benefits. New Democracy refuses it. He's denying it. Do you know why he denies it? It's a minimum sample, if you like, of a social state. And here's our difference, and it'll prove it. Beyond propaganda and post-election bombing, people will understand that. You went something to do with the farmers and you took it back. Let's see what you bring. And that's not all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u388	Monsieur Baroness, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u389	I shall conclude, Mr President. I want to say this by ending, that the constitutional review is under the bar. So the political system had to show the people that it felt the shock of the crisis. That can't be. You're gonna tell me: Could this only be done with the Constitution? Oh, no. It was a step. This is not a step either. I think it is now a demand for a social, pan-democratic, confrontation in a positive perspective in the country, and now it will seem, post-electionally, who has a proposal, not just for a final exit from the crisis, but for a regenerative effort, for a vision that meets the needs of the people and especially the young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u390	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in his House from the top Western theories that he is attending our meeting, thirty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd High School from the nice Drama. Welcome. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're moving on with Mr. Antoniadis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mr President. This country, Mr President, is indeed suffering from corruption, but it also suffers from the great words and many philosophies we hear when these philosophies and the great words do not go hand in hand with the great deeds. The time is 20 a.m., we are in number fifteen and are waiting for colleagues to speak, and the first of them, because they happen to be more forward, do not respect the others who follow. That is why I think it is of greater value to congratulate Mr Kaklamani, who really defends this possibility of Members and to speak as much as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Constitution is indeed a top parliamentary process, a leading moment in the constitution. We are certainly lucky to have the opportunity to explain our views on this, since it will take some ten years to the next. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 4(1) of the Constitution states that all Greeks are equal to the law. Equality and equalisation. The Constitution guarantees us equal opportunities and the same conditions for all Greeks. However, this certainly does not serve when the constituencies are not equivalent, when elsewhere we have one-stop shops, elsewhere we have two-stage, elsewhere we have multi-stage, when in one region there is a one-stage, another one-stage and another one-stage. Do the inhabitants of the Peristeri of Athens have equal opportunities for communication and information with their MPs? Oh, no. Do the candidates of Lefkada have equal opportunities with those of First Athens? Oh, no. Do you know that France and England and other civilised states are divided into one-sided regions? France, for example, has 577 single-sided regions with about 100 000 inhabitants. So equivalent electoral regions with equal opportunities and the same conditions for all candidates and for all voters. This is a deepening of democracy and real democracy. I have not heard any real democrat mention it and defend it. Something else very important: I consider it very important that the minimum number of procedures and instruments be guaranteed by the parties. The crisis gave rise to many parties. We saw this whole album. Should there not be constitutional safeguards for those parties that are potential governments? We don't see that either. How are we going to deepen democracy, ladies and gentlemen, when we have been talking about decentralisation of powers, transferring powers and resources to the region, to the mayors, to the district managers, to the secretaries of decentralised administration, things self-evident about modern democracies and for decades asked for us? Why would an interview for a head of staff be held in Athens when he can do so at the headquarters of his district? Why should a simple investment be made to the Minister for Development and the 'carcedaurs' of the ministries? Article 16 for non-State universities: I do not agree with SYRIZA, but we must all recognise that here at least SYRIZA is consistent with its ideology, supporting state universities alone. But I will say to SYRIZA's colleagues: do not patronize and snuff anything state-owned or anything that goes to state-run. I would remind you that all these state universities have created a liberal party with other parties, but not with SYRIZA. I will give you a typical example, that of 'Olympic'. The "Olympic" was state-owned by New Democracy when the needs of the time were imposed and the New Democracy privatised it when the conditions changed and that was in the interest of the Greek people and the Greek economy. Today the interest of the Greek people, of education in general, but also of the national economy, requires the presence of non-State universities, because in a world which is highly competitive it survives not the one with blinkers and obsessions, but the one with reasoned adaptability. I would like to mention other serious issues, such as the ones of justice by choosing its leadership by the judges themselves, the public administration, the control of constitutionality in the law with a constitutional court and others. However, I shall confine myself to today's issues very quickly. For the perpetrators' imprisonment, we qualified as a parliamentary majority, and it was a permanent New Democracy position that the Member's immunity should be restricted and shielded only in the performance of his duties. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] For the ministers, I don't go into details. I would like to remind you - and we must acknowledge it to Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis - that it has already been proposed during the 2008 review as a mere Member. He was unable to obtain the required number of Members, so we have come to the present situation which is now mature in order to limit this prerogative of the ministers. As for allowing Greeks abroad to vote from the place of residence, this is what I think has matured and I think it will be a great victory for the Greek Parliament and for democracy that there will be a large majority and - why not? - unanimity of the entire House. So while respecting the time, ladies and gentlemen, I will say that everything we would like and should not have been included in the Constitution on the basis of our ideological convictions and needs of the time. But it is enough to be a very good review project, deepening democracy and better days for our parliamentary democracy. I feel the need to congratulate Mr Javarra on all the parliamentary committee on preparing the Constitutional Review for the very good work he has done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u392	Thank you to my colleague for the time. It's from an energy prefecture. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a special honour for every Member - and even newly elected - to participate in the top political and parliamentary process of revising the Constitution. Unfortunately, our country has lost a historic opportunity for a brave constitutional review that would meet the needs of the future. The scope of the provisions to be revised, as laid down by the Proposed House with the majority of SYRIZA and ANELs, is not what the historic juncture requires. Significant reforms are lacking in relation to education, justice, the environment, taxation and development. The failure to revise Article 16 of the Constitution is a top priority. We have not been able to decapitate ourselves from the existing constitutional barriers that hamper Greece's entry into the new international education market, its transformation into an international educational centre and the repatriation of thousands of scientists who so much need for our country's development perspective. However, I have to admit that the revision of Rule 62 on the restriction of parliamentary immunity is undoubtedly in the right direction. With the new provision, parliamentary immunity is limited only to acts or declarations relating to the performance of the duties of the Member. This makes it possible to strike the necessary balance between the complete impunity of some of the judiciary officials and the need to protect our parliamentary and democracy. Historically, Article 62 protects the legislative power against any interventions by the executive and lays down its supremacy over it. The Member must be protected in the performance of his duties, but only in the exercise of his duties, and he must also be protected in the exercise of his parliamentary activity. We want the Members to express themselves and act freely, but not uncontrolledly, because even in acts of parliamentary or political activity, the Member is controlled but controlled by Parliament. However, we must be clear. In a society with a high level of democratic institutions, no immunity can exist in the actions of the Member outside his or her parliamentary or political activity. In doing so, the Member must be equal to that of every citizen. That is something that we are urgently asked for by the citizens themselves. It is something our conscience imposes on us against the citizens who have trusted us to represent them. Phenomena of the past that MPs enjoyed immunity and therefore the impunity must be removed from our legal order. This is inappropriate in a modern constitutional order, in a modern European state, as Greece should be. We cannot, however, point out that in the previous House no request for waiver of immunity was accepted by the parliamentary majority of SYRIZA - ANEL. Civic Opposition recently voted negatively on the request for the waiver of Mr Polakis' immunity. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, the New Democracy's parliamentary majority recently voted in favour of the request to waive the immunity of two Members of our resignation. You know, in politics, actions should not be a long way from words. This is our understanding of the policy and the New Democracy Government is doing this notion of the status which should govern the immunity of Members. Because the Member should not be fortified behind parliamentary immunity, because immunity does not mean impunity. Immunity means protection. So we do not deceive the parliamentary institution in the eyes of the citizens who seek transparency and equality, but we ensure the uninterrupted and unpaid exercise of the parliamentary function and parliamentary duties for the benefit of our democracy. The opportunity that this Constitutional Review gives us is not going to let her go lost. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me also to refer to the revision of Rule 86, which refers to the responsibility of the ministers, which, from the proposed House, is limited to paragraph 3, in the amortisation period, namely the limitation period. In the new provision, the limitation period for the offences of the Ministers is equal to the limitation period applicable to all citizens. This is also an extremely democratic balance, so that the Minister can be treated as perhaps before the law with every citizen in our country, but also shielded in the performance of his duties, so that he can exercise them responsibly and not be subject to the prosecution of his political opponents for the service of micro-political purposes. This is achieved by the intervention of the House in the prosecution procedure, but also by the lifting of any provision of special limitations. The message we are emitting, but also the essence of this change, is that no one is above the law, but no one can use the law as a posterior or avenge. I fear, however, that once again the Civic Opposition uses the law in a tighter manner. This is reflected in the proposal made by the Chief of Staff Response for the introduction of an interpretative provision under Article 86. This proposal from a legal point of view is completely unfounded. It is well known even to a fresh-year law student that any retrospective application of criminal law is prohibited. This proposal runs counter to fundamental principles of law, fundamental human rights and freedoms, as defined in the European Convention on Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the established case-law of the European Court of Human Rights. Politics this view is particularly dangerous, as it opens the way for reinsurgent practices that create a split environment. It is truly out of any legal or political precedent, and it is eloquently unacceptable that SYRIZA's efforts to link the top process of constitutional review to justice affairs, such as the 'NOVARTIS', because here we are talking about simply a retroactive application of criminal law or even a retrospective application of an interpretative provision, but about their implementation where they cannot actually be implemented, that is, a proposal out of reality. It is well known that the previous House, with the majority of SYRIZA - ANEL, sent to justice the cases of the ten political people, who have already relieved the seven and the proceedings are pending for the others. Why did he send these cases to justice? It was precisely because it considered that Article 86 did not apply to them, that is to say, the interpretative version which the Chief of Police has in his letter does not play any role in these cases which are pending. It is clear, therefore, that even this top process of the Constitutional Review works once again and is approached by the Chief of Officerial Response with lies and populist tactics. The legal opinions of the Officerate are unprecedented and paradoxical. Honestly, I do not know whether the proposal for retroactive application of criminal provisions or the proposal for simultaneous prosecuting and witness status in the same case that we recently heard from the Qualified Opposition in the preliminary committee investigating any offences committed by the former Minister of Justice is paradoxical. Colleagues of the Officerate, what else will we really hear and who will be the next legal acrobatism? So what's going on? Aren't there any worthwhile and serious lawyers in Civicism to interpret the laws correctly? Obviously, there are, just once again, evidence of the conception of Officer Responsibility for institutions, democratic processes, laws and its lack of respect for them. The provisions are interpreted so that they serve your micro-party interests and do not hesitate to do so, even if these provisions are the top of our democracy, even if these are the provisions of our Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, such perceptions are foreign to us and we will not allow anyone to use the Constitution on the altar of political purposes. We move on to the constitutional review with respect to this top process, firmly committed to the goal, to lead our country to the path of prosperity and growth. And to this end, a Constitution that meets the needs of our times is the best guarantee of our democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u394	Thank you. Mr Aylonite has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to address the Members of the New Democracy, but it is only two. I would like to remind you that, outside this House, great struggles, revolutions and it was called the 'State Square'. Today we are discussing the Revision of the Constitution, and the picture does not give rise to a particular honour of the House. Most of all, however, it does not pay particular attention to claiming here that we should act in a spirit of national unity, so that we can structure a constitution, even at the level of revised provisions, which serve society and future generations. Are we doing this? If we do, it looks like I'm not here. You are talking about unity, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. To tell me, what unity can be achieved in voting the maximum rule of state, when the parliament proposed for revision for forty articles and paragraphs to be revised and you rejected thirty and tomorrow you abolish five, six. Why do you do this today and quickly, to revise these provisions and amend the Constitution? For three reasons, in my view: Firstly, in February we have elections for the President of the Republic. We must quickly - quickly to finish, so that we can vote for the President of the Republic so that we do not get involved in any gears and we do not elect and go for elections. Is it like this or not or am I not here? That is why it will be voted on Monday that the President of the Hellenic Republic, on whose face the national unity is concentrating, as Mr Kastanides said yesterday, is likely to come out with seventy-five Members. I thought until yesterday a hundred twenty MPs. Do you know why you are speeding up the process of voting for a revision of the provisions of the Constitution and quickly -? Why do you want the next elections not to take place under the analogous system proposed by the previous parliament and SYRIZA? Let me tell you why you are shouting "Why does SYRIZA insist on saving and it is good to have the interpretative statement entered under Article 86 of the Constitution?" Why? Explanatory statement. It happens and I am a lawyer, and I also address the lawyers who are MPs today. Explanatory statement! And what do you think today? You say this interpretative statement is a rule of criminal law and will have retroactive effect. Hear, hear! The first-year law student knows that when a criminal act is identified by the criminal legislature, this is determined in a positive way, not in a negative way! I would remind you, therefore, that this interpretative statement says: 'In the true sense of this article' - that is to say, Article 86, concerning the offences referred to in paragraph 1 - 'it does not include what has been done simply on the occasion of the ministerial service'. "Don't"! Is that a rule of criminal law, which you invoke? And I'll tell you why you invoke him. Because you don't have any arguments. You have no arguments why you say it saves and well that this is a rule of criminal law. You certainly do not want this interpretation to take place so that the criminal judge, who will deal with cases with accused ministers, can have the absolute discretion to interpret this provision of Article 86 as appropriate. I mean, how? That bribery, for example, took place on the occasion of ministerial duties. Some cases, then, will go to the file as hundreds of other cases have gone about the offence of infidelity. Do you remember that? By the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers. How, then, will our civilisation become credible when we degrade the debate on the Revision of the Constitution when we put such issues of purely party interest and party purposes, so that we can actually serve our clientele and our party interest? You know what reminds me? Ioannis Kolettis, who is essentially the father of the rousphite in Greece, is the Prime Minister who built the "Great Idea". This is what is happening in the vote on the revised articles of the Constitution. And I'm so sorry. I'm going to read to you, because I don't remember it from the outside, an acknowledgment of the tragic poet Agathon. “The ruler of three sees merciful: First of all, he is ruled. Second, according to laws, it does. Thirdly, I want to point out that it does not do so.” You are creating such a constitutional framework for future generations with the impression - it has been said by this Step - that you will always govern. No, I don't. The political history of the country has shown that it cannot keep a government eight, ten, twelve years. I honestly do not understand how you guarantors of the constitution, you who want the unity of the nation to vote for the Flemish President of the Republic with seventy-five MPs or with twenty-eight or thirty-eight! With a simple majority of those present in this House? Do you want this Constitution? Is this a constitution we want? My dear colleagues, I am a new Member of Parliament. I've served the law for years. I can understand the purposes in relation to the interpretation of criminal provisions, provisions of civil law and constitutional law. People outside see and spit when they see an empty House today. I should like to speak in front of two Members of the New Democracy, i.e. the majority voting for the Constitution. And I'm going to go to my place, and they're wondering what the Aylonite said and who the Aylonite spoke to. My dear colleagues, I had a lot to say in writing, but I felt it appropriate to speak from breasts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u396	You're fewer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u397	Do not adapt the Constitution to your provisional party needs, such as the election of the President of the Republic, with the votes I mentioned earlier. Protect the Constitution, institutions and society itself. I'll finish as I started. Remember, 'it's dominance'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, Mr Aylonite, for the time. Mr. Constantine Markos of SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by paraphrasing Albert Cammy who says that life is the sum of our choices. So I can say that each party, its ownership is the sum of its choices. And today is an important vote in the sum of our choices, which will characterize us for the future. SYRIZA took the initiative in 2016 to launch the public debate on constitutional review at a key and symbolic moment. It started in order to improve the Constitution of Greece after the memorandum. A constitution of democratic, that is, for a new post-population. A charter that would take account of both the lessons and the adventure of the memorials. By modernising institutions, deepening democracy, rights, halting neoliberalism, constitutionalization of labour rights and the treatment of institutional sins of the past. The current government, then, as an official opposition, had swept through the move of the debate. You remember that, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. He was deported. It did not participate in either consultation or in any other procedure. And now he's coming to make the honorer because we chose that way. And of course it also comes to reject any democratic proposal that our side proposes. But I come to the individual provisions soon. The famous Article 86. The current provision, you know, sets out a protective framework that causes reasonable suspicion about the morality of the political world. They've been said against Coron. I won't insist too much. But I would like to stress that if we do not clear up this landscape, then we are morally responsible for the fact that we are firing on society and especially on young people with their sensitivity, situations that see the political world in the unavoidable state of affairs, under any illegality, and that they are put into crisis all the detailed violations and, at the same time, giving food to the Acro-right monster. What do we suggest? You know that very well, to add an interpretative statement specifying, etc. I won't tire you. It has been said against Coron. It is the only correct and, above all, genuine interpretation of the rules in force. Our aim is, however, to clarify the way in which we can rule out for ever the conditions and the opposite interpretative structures that will give loopholes that may think of opening up and giving immunity to inconveniences in the future. What will be the practical consequence of this interpretative statement? For offences like bribery the ministers will have as natural judge the judge of Criminal Law like all citizens. We have to proclaim this. This is because there is no reason to protect them from constitutional arrangements for an illegal act. The reason why the constitutional legislature is concerned that these acts should only be persecuted if the parliament decides is obviously so that the government and every government can do its political duty. But that's something different. Only for politics. Not all other crimes are true. And they shouldn't. I imagine you have nothing to fear from this interpretative statement. Because I do not think that you are seeking to file interoperable and corruption cases. But why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, do you not see to it that Caesar's wife dresses her up in the moral apparel, since you are convinced that she is moral? We have to give her that garment. Neither you, nor the parties of minor opposition. Why, ladies and gentlemen? Can't you see that your refusal to accept our proposal will show people that it conceals political selfishness? Won't the people who see us at the moment and who are watching the National Representation disagree with the parties on a much-discussed constitutional problem with clear extensions to old and timely scandals, with a top of the NOVARTIS scandal? Do you not understand that your refusal is a major hypocrisy and is going to cause a heavy political blow to the political system? You do not care about the consequences of this attitude, that is to say, to the public that the suspicion of having unjustified privileges for the political staff of the country will be attributed to the public. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is doing a good job. Everything that has been voted on for her day is sealed by many thousands and millions of euros, which is made north of the elites she represents. But the example of the previous four years makes this distinction more visible and clearer to the Greek people. SYRIZA, who is currently the opposition, had again been opposition, major opposition, from 2011-2014. What's the difference? What now exists is an experience and a story, and for this story we are proud and accepted at all times to compare to every aspect of political reality. The House and the political system as a whole have the opportunity to give, by adding the interpretative declaration, a clear sign: "In any case, there are suspicions of corruption for political persons, justice can indulge in investigating them, as it does for every citizen." Let us now see very briefly the subject of mere analogy. Here we have a huge problem, which - believe me - will not only touch those who have left ideology and left policy. He'll touch them all. The political system, ladies and gentlemen, is threatened by the invasion of economic technocrats and threatening democracy itself. You know that this famous Euro Working Group has no political legitimacy and yet it exercises enormous political power. We must resist this trend of the system, with more democracy and more politics. This is going to be the simple analogue. I would like to say another thing about the recent representative of the Minor Representation, who often lifts the finger and punishes him. On 2 June 2015, a simple analogue proposal, Vangelis Venizelos, PASOK. What happened? Left and left Vangelis Venizelos fled from PASOK, and the boat came to its place? And now simple analogue means insolence? There must also be a little political disgrace! I shall end with the vote of the frustrations. What was the first government to introduce the issue from the Migration? The Left government. In February 2018, we passed a law and established a committee on this issue. At the same time, we have made sure that the Article 54 procedure is opened to discuss it. You know that from 2001 to 2015 PASOK and the New Democracy ruled. Why didn't you bring the issue of the vote and now you're moving our hand? The proposal we have tabled is based on principles, on the vote by the deputies at their place of residence and on the election of Members of the State, depending on the number of registered Members. And finally, we have two conditions. One is not to inspire dissatisfaction in the family, because we are not entitled to do so, by inspiring party competitions, and secondly, to add, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the term'real ties with the country'. Only then will the next legislative framework be truly worthwhile. I conclude by saying that the procedure you have chosen and in the direction you have given the content shows that there is clear ignorance of the causes that led us to bankruptcy. You state you're making regularity. I will answer you with a phrase from the painter Van Gogh: "The normality is a paved road. He's comfortable to walk to him, but they don't grow flowers." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u400	Thank you. Mr Sarakiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the top parliamentary procedure, the revision of the Constitution and, indeed, I am saddened by the fact that micro-party strangles and ideological obsessions are present, even now in this Chamber. Instead of finding a common place, a common one, and ignoring to the self-evidently, the members of the ruling party, I observe that they have chosen to remember the glorious moments of their opposition life. We have heard them fight for private universities in one voice, once again repeating the same misunderstandings. But let us speak specifically with names. Who belongs to the state-funded Oxford or to whom is Cambridge, the famous London School of Economics? Is that too private? Not at all. Heidelberg in Germany, Sorbonne in France, and all the above, although you want to hide it, is public. Are there not private universities in these countries? Yes, there are, but what position do these hold, compared to the above public universities, which I mentioned, for example? They are depopulated and marginalised in any sense. Even those who are defending these days of opinion about the establishment of private universities, arguing about what is happening abroad, invoking your own, personal experiences, students at state universities and not at third-level colleges. So why deliberately mislead the youth and the Greek family, which you know is willing to sacrifice everything in order for her children to have the best possible development? What is all this over-treat, the constant and coordinated over-treat for the degradation and demand of public universities? Ladies and gentlemen, let me now come to Rule 86 on the persecution of members of the government, which is also one of the main topics of today's debate. Along with Rule 62 on the non-violence of Members, they are two important provisions for the next day of the country, as the crisis caused by your actions and your omissions, beyond economic considerations, was also a crisis of values, but also a cause for doubting, very often rightly, the morality of members of political staff. We all remember the course of numerous cases, from Vatopedi to the structured bonds, for which Article 86 has allowed the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK to become involved in the early dismantling of the House, which automatically meant that the crimes should be dropped. Meeting, write down, you're done. This is a practice of the last decades, whose beginning has a name and, of course, its continuation does not look to anyone, while it has rightly accepted the arrows and fires of the entire legal world and also of our fellow citizens. It is our duty to put an end to the provocative limitations, which have so much stimulated public and common sense in previous years. It is our duty to propose the need to abolish the deadline for prosecution, a provision that is extremely important in order to prevent manipulation by electoral procedures, but also the functioning of Parliament itself. But is that enough? Under no circumstances, since under the responsibility of the New Democracy a interpretative statement has been attached to Article 86, which would prevent the deletion of scandals and cases of corruption, such as the one in NoVARTIS. The President of SYRIZA Alexis Tsipras, by letter to the President of the Committee on Review, asked for the self-evident statement to be accepted by everyone. Then there was absolute silence. And if you do not want to respond to us, at least you find something convincing - if you have - to tell the Greek people, who over the past few years listened to and saw serious cases, which have actually damaged him, since the country was brought to the crisis and to bankruptcy, without having led to any punishment of a responsible person. The Greek people listened to sea-loving, borrowed, borrowed and unscrupulous for a million marks, which even today, after many years, do not know in whose pockets they ended. Honestly, I do not understand the reasons for this and may I refer specifically to the major issue of 'NOVARTIS'. Since there is a scandal, as you yourself have admitted, but at the same time you say that there is no involvement of political persons, then what are you afraid of? Why do you take a stand on what has happened, and do not even mean fundamental, in order to shed plenty of light on all the cases that arouses public life? It is sad, because while you admit that Article 86 was wrong, at the same time you are trying to use its benefits to the end. Forgive me, but this is the definition of hypocrisy and irresponsibility. It is clearly an integral part of the same political plan, which we have seen in recent days unfolding and which includes, among other things, voting for criminal amnesty for bankers, opening up accounts for those who are being investigated and prosecuted for money laundering cases. Until “Financial Times” reached your grace, with your officials answering the dispute between SYRIZA and “Financial Times”, after having denounced the conflict between SYRIZA and FBI. Will there not be accountability for what we all now witness as a scandal? What message, then, are we emiting toward the citizens, who are subjected to reasonable suspicion against the political world? What message are you asking us young parliamentarians to send, to send to youth? I'm sorry, but we're not all the same. Just let us all think, let alone the new Members, that in the next few hours the decision we take in this very critical process is a decision that will follow us for the rest of our political life and possibly determine how long it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr Sarakiotis, and respect for the time. Now Mr. Ypsilantis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u403	Ladies and gentlemen, my thoughts regarding both the limitations of the parliamentary immunity of Article 62 and the ministerial responsibility of Article 86, which I shall develop, are based on two basic pillars for our democracy: on the one hand, the non-extortive criminalisation of political life by extra-institutional circles, on the other, on the defence of the right to judicial protection and fair trial of third parties affected by acts and omissions of the respective political people, MPs and ministers. In particular, with regard to Rule 62, the immunity of Members in our time does, at first glance, give rise to suspicion and reservations about citizens. It has been established as a privilege and disproportionate exception from the principles of the rule of law and equality before the law. With today's Review, it is necessary to make it clear that immunity does not mean that the Member is unavoidable and unreserved for a generalised set of illegal criminal conduct, which is why immunity must go through in a closer causal link with the parliamentary status. In our country, the substantial distortion of fellow parliamentary solidarity has resulted in, as has shown, a set of scientific studies, being granted with dire permissions from the House that allow criminal prosecution. This, of course, results in Greece being subject to serious convictions from the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, it is not a question of abolishing the immunity of Members, but of rationality and efficiency of our legal and safeguarding our democracy. In this light it should be demonstrated by all of us in this Chamber that the irresponsibility of the Member for his opinion or his vote is valid, unnecessarily and necessary. Solution, in our modern democratic state organization, can be the limitation of immunity purely to matters which are raised and dealt with by the House of the real and legal circumstances of each prosecution. It is also worth keeping in this direction the functionality of the importance of existing forecasts that do not remove any criminality, as mistakenly there may be the distorting impression of the common sense. On the contrary, they inhibit it as long as the person's parliamentary status is in force, even if the offences were played earlier or during that status. It is also worth making it clear to the citizens that any civil responsibilities still do not enjoy the slightest, even inhibiting, tolerance today. With regard to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, guidelines for our common European constitution are the judgments: 'Cordova v Italy', concerning the former President of the Italian Republic, Francesko Kosiga, as then a Member under the immunity of the respective article 68 of the Italian Constitution, the case of 'Tsalkidiki v Greece' in respect of acts of the former mayor of the Member of the European Parliament and of the Council against Greece', which, in essence, concerned with the criminality of a family diligence and child communication dispute. These cases at the European Court of Justice have come to the fundamental conclusion that Article 62 of the Greek Constitution, interpreted in the light of paragraph 1 of Article 6 of the European Convention on the Rights of Human Rights for a fair trial, allows the Greek Parliament to refuse the waiver of immunity of a Member only if the acts attributed to him are undoubtedly linked under the established conditions of the principle of proportionality and with a strong justification purely for his parliamentary activity. In other words, Article 6 of the Convention requires the House, in any particular request to waive the immunity of one of its Members, to examine the existence of a link between the acts and the parliamentary duties complained of and to give reasons for not revoking the immunity of the Member only if such a manifest and proportionate relevance is established. Thus, the fundamental right of citizens to legal protection is not being violated by the courts, but also by Members of Parliament, who are not using the parliamentarians' institution abusively, so that they remain unpunished for criminal offences, unjustified by their duties, in contrast to the opposing intimidation of the MP and his abusive persecutions. That is what we want to guarantee, ladies and gentlemen, today with our choice in this particular article. With regard to Article 86, I would like to say that the present constitutional review of the responsibility of Ministers is, for the New Democracy, the mark put forward, I would say, of the public interest, of the political ethos and of the new legal transparency that it wants to establish in the resumption of the state reorganisation of our country, especially, after the tenth memorandum years, and even partly of the disguised covert cases of corruption, infringibility and inappropriate customer relations of the executive with various economic extra-institutional interests. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, at an earlier time in this Review, as a Member, had sought in previous parliamentary times the judgment of Article 86 as being reviewed by the signature of fifty Members, collecting the insecurity of his colleagues in times of intense populism, with the impressions of political persecution snatching the real need for fair control and transparency, without, in fact, interference with the final judge of the substance of the cases, who is no other than judicial service. Our proposal is, in my opinion, clear and concrete. For the ministers, the exceptionally short amortization period should be abolished for the exercise of Parliament's powers of referral to common justice, as we are proposing, with the decision to support them positively or negatively from an enlarged judiciary consisting of high-ranking judicial officers. Also, the whole process of drawing up the finding and its adoption by Parliament should be completed as soon as possible, with the mention of a specific reasonable time, so that no case has been drawn up for a long time. The special responsibility of the Ministers is a constitutional provision which is always in the Greek Constitutions from 1844 to our days. With the 2001 Review, the relevant regulation of the Constitution of 1975 became indeed more stringent in terms of its procedure and substance, so it was voted in favour of two hundred and sixty-eight Members, followed by any defects made by Law 3126/2003 on the responsibility of the Ministers. However, the procedural formulation of the conditions for the limitation of offences, with the early dissolution of the House in the past, was, in fact, interpreted as an institutional overlap. This therefore makes it necessary to introduce additional guarantees. Such arrangements exist in other developed constitutions of Western states, in many of which, as in the United States, parliament is responsible not only for initiating the relevant procedure but also for judging the case as a court. Without such provisions, it cannot be ruled out in a country and the necessary political decisions that would otherwise be converted into criminal proceedings, at least for the multi-invoked breach of duty for each public authority. Ladies and gentlemen, the rational reform of Article 86 of the Constitution on the criminal liability of politicians, by removing the privilegedly unacceptable short-term and procedural limitations and by introducing a ten-year deadline so that governmental persons are not bound by political persecution, seems - and I hope - to ensure that the majority of the parties are accepted as an additional restoration movement of state institutions towards our society, indicating the institutional and operational substance of the necessary provisions. With these thoughts, thank you for having been patient to listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u404	Mr Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Mr President. Two dozen in a row! Ladies and gentlemen, this week is the culmination of the parliamentary procedure for the Constitutional Review, and we all bear a great burden of responsibility, as we are involved in a topical and seldom parliamentary process that determines the form of our constitution. The issues that we have been asked today are about transparency, self-clearing of the political system, but also about the nature of the electoral system and the facilitation of the vote. The question of the responsibility of Members under Article 62 of the Constitution is an issue which has for many years created a distance between the parliamentary world and the citizens. How many times have we heard the saying 'Korak eye does not come out', whenever the immunity of one of us is not lifted? It is important that with the agreement of all of us we have shown that we are not afraid to touch this article and that we are moving forward with its revision. However, even in this expressed common position, the majority proposal feels that it is far behind the demands of the time. Even in cases of crimes not linked to parliamentary status, it is no reason to propose an additional procedure for compulsory waiver of immunity from the House. On the other hand, our proposal is much more functional, since we propose the self-evident, that any offence which does not fall within the competence of the Member should be persecuted without the permission of the House. Really, what is it that prevents you from exempting the parliamentary system from self-protecting and making unnecessary procedures? The same arguments and objections are related to the change in paragraph 3 of Article 86 on the responsibility of the Ministers. It is important that we mean abolishing the depreciation deadline. But if we want to be clean in this Review and at this point in time, after what our country has lived in the last ten years, we cannot add the interpretative statement proposed by the previous House, which states that it is not included in the offences that have just been committed in the course of the ministerial service. And in that case the road must be one, the Greek courts, no one else. Ladies and gentlemen, the bribe cannot be regarded as falling within the duty of the Minister. Is it the Minister's duty to "take it"? What are you afraid of and do not vote for the interpretative statement? I hear that the interpretative statement will offer nothing to retrospectiveness. The interpretative declaration does not amend the existing provisions, is an authentic interpretation of the existing provision and therefore has retroactive effect. And that is exactly what you are afraid of, because you are afraid that other ministers have put your finger on honey as well as on the case 'NOVARTIS'. You want to relieve your ministers of the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. Why this hypocrisy? What do you want to hide under the rug? Is that your opinion of democracy? Impressively, however, you are also causing with your stubborn refusal not to accept the addition of a new paragraph to Rule 56 to enter the term of office of Members. In the end, you probably don't think that the only privilege that the people gave us to represent him can't be a professional concern. You have learned the political careers, the politicians who become MPs are rightfully inherited. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to represent Greek citizens, not to be professional politicians. Our proposal provides that up to three successive parliamentary periods may become a candidate or be elected as a Member in the next elections. It is therefore clear that SYRIZA is the only party that defends the renewal of civil servants and believes that the post of the MP is not hereditary, but that the PASOK and the New Democracy parties are not defending it, obviously putting the internal-party balances above the opportunity for equal representation of all citizens within Parliament. Equally important are the changes proposed in Article 54 concerning the electoral system. In the case of the change in paragraph 1 of Article 54 and the constitutional introduction of an analogue system in the country, there appears to be all the duplicity and hindrance of the parties to the New Democracy and PASOK. A constant request from our people throughout the post-population period, the simple analogue, could be made today an article of the country's highest legal text. For years the Left has believed and believed that an electoral system does not apply in vain, it is directly related to political conditions and to the prevailing order. The introduction of pluralism, the recognition of minority power and the development of conditions of cooperation within Parliament, but also with the government, is proof that democracy is deepening. It is, however, and proof that there is no lost vote and that the choices of the people are accurately reflected in the composition of the House. You are now coming to speak of insolence. You are telling us that this will lead the country to the rule of law. Just reveal that you are putting rulership above the vote. You cynically admit that it is preferable to alter the will of the people to protect the mines. Your attitude is frustrating and you can be sure that you will answer to society. You are these two parties that have shared the largest share of governance since 1974, cutting off and sewing the electoral systems according to your interest, introducing into political life and political culture mutated values by dismantling democracy itself. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution of our country is the way we are walking, so that our society is coherent and fair, ensuring equality, equality, freedom and democracy. But these are the mesh of values and fundamental laws that the history of the country itself, its people and its struggles have guaranteed. Our job is to keep him, protect him and further strengthen him. On the basis of these rules and principles, I believe that the work of the Parliament proposed has been initiated, and I firmly believe that the proposals and the spirit of the changes proposed have expressed the common sense. It is our duty not to lead us to alter our Constitution by neoliberal logic and practices that want a democracy subordinated and a continuation of the prerogatives of the party and economic oligarchy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr Santorinio, and the consistency in time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty-five students and students and an educational attendant from the 3rd High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Jackie has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u407	The revision of the provisions of the modules we are debating today, ladies and gentlemen, is necessary for the institutional reconstruction of the country towards the regeneration of the political system and the deepening of the democratic functioning of all functions, with a view to strengthening popular sovereignty. The first change, therefore, is the reduction of the Member's impunity, whose application has led to criminal immunity. The parliamentary immunity referred to in Article 62 of the Constitution is dictated by the real need for the Member of Parliament to have freedom of opinion, speech and political action, in order for a post and without fear of persecution to respond to his public role. On the other hand, the Member should not abuse his or her parliamentary position and status in order to commit offences under the ordinary criminal law which have nothing to do with his or her political activity, nor with his public role and public status. That is why it is proposed to revise the provision of Article 62 of the Constitution, which, as it is currently stated, is abusive invoked and implemented. For example, Members who commit offences under the influence of alcohol or illegal physical violence should not be protected and should not be prosecuted for having immunity, thereby giving populists the pretext for confiscation and politics and policies. In what direction should this provision be reviewed? For offences not related to their parliamentary status or to their parliamentary action, to be prosecuted as ordinary citizens, without requiring a parliament's permission to prosecute. They must therefore be accounted for in the criminal courts in accordance with common procedural rules, without requiring the Parliament's decision, taken by an absolute majority of the Members present to prosecute the Member. In the same direction, the revision of Article 86 on the responsibility of Ministers, which gave the sense - not unjustly - of the unjustified privileged criminal treatment of the ministers in relation to ordinary citizens and, at the same time, gave the impression that a protected chamber of corruption has been created. The provision of Article 86, as currently in force, sets out a short amortisation deadline which, in conjunction with the application of enhanced proportional systems, gave Parliament a genuinely absolute majority and provided that the reference of the member of the government was necessary by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, was essentially to the impunity of the members of the government. This regulation, ladies and gentlemen, after ten years of bankruptcy and financial collapse, is a challenge for society, which was convinced - and rightly so - that the ministers may be criminalized without criminal sanctions, contrary to ordinary citizens. The SYRIZA proposal therefore abolishes the short deadline, which applies as a time-limit for limitation of the offence and proposes that the limitation period for all citizens should apply. It also introduces an interpretative statement stating that the special criminal procedure under Article 86 applies only to offences committed by the Ministers in the performance of their duties and not to those committed on the occasion which must be prosecuted under the common legislation. Of course, we must point out here that there has only been partial treatment of the consequences of Article 86, with the introduction of the crime of money laundering, as has been established, firstly, in 1993, and as the relevant legislation has subsequently been amended. This is because the serious corruption crimes committed by the ministers are most often subject to the objective nature of the laundering of black money, which is an offence that is always committed on occasion. In many cases - as we know to date - ministers of the past who have been sentenced to prison, criminal prosecutions have been carried out on the basis of the provisions on 'black' money laundering and not on the basis of Article 86 of the Constitution and of the special criminal law which they have, in any event, been adopted by means of a delegated act. I think that both Article 86 and Article 62 are incomprehensible about their revision in this particular direction, which is proposed by the SYRIZA. We should, of course, see this provision here in conjunction with SYRIZA's proposal for a constitutional electoral system, in which the notion of an absolute majority of the total number of Members does not coincide with the votes of the party's parliamentary group which first came to the elections, because a government majority is required to obtain wider inter-party consent. The new Republic, of course - and it will be my omission not to stress - refuses to introduce the interpretative declaration of Article 86 without any obvious justification, since it is a constitutional failure to accept this provision without the interpretative provision, since it will again be possible to misinterpretation. On the basis of this interpretative provision, it will be possible, in addition to the offences which fall within the objective nature of money laundering - there are many corruption crimes that meet this objective situation - and for other offences, more importantly corruption, which I think is a disgrace to the political system, to be regarded as being committed in the performance of the Minister's duties, to be able to prosecute in the cases of ministers who fulfil the objective status of other offences. With regard to the addition of the subparagraph of Article 54(1), in order to constitutionalise the application of a more proportional electoral system to the parliamentary elections, I consider that the proportional electoral system, namely, the most representative translation of votes into parliamentary seats, is the basic principle of representative democracy. We must remember that there has been a historic and timeless demand from all the progressive world and all the progressive space in both Greece and the West. I also think that it puts a bet on the political system: to ask for wider alliances for more effective governance in the country, which, if won, will have more potential for success and greater legitimacy, because it will represent more, larger parts, larger parts of the population. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to SYRIZA's proposal to add a new provision as paragraph 4 to Rule 54, which will enable the electorate to state that a number of MPs will be elected in wider electoral districts of permanent establishment by the Greek Prime Minister, with a single ballot in each of them. With the addition of this paragraph to Rule 54, Greeks who permanently reside abroad in the national elections and their representation with their own Member from the places of their permanent establishment, who will be elected by a single vote, i.e. a casting vote. In this way, it is recognized for the first time that Greeks will have a say about what has been said in history, in the sense that the municipality, in the ancient Greek sense, according to Plato and Aristotle, also includes the Greeks, but not - due to the single vote of each party proposed - also participate in the internal political debate, which will allow them, free of party commitments, to contribute to the promotion of the demands of the Greek diaspora, to the strengthening of its ties with metropolitan Greece and to the promotion of the wider demands of Greekism relating to the formation and development of the national identity. The proposal of the New Democracy, on the one hand, is involved in internal political confrontation, on the other, degrades Greeks from outside to category two voters and limited rights, as it restricts their right to vote in elections, namely their representation in the Greek Parliament with their own MPs, from where they are permanently established, since, according to its most up-to-date proposal - because it is true that the New Democracy has so far presented several proposals - the Greeks abroad will vote on the single electoral list, in which Greeks may also be included from democrats, without, of course, specifying whether they will be in election or non-democratic. The New Democracy, as we all understand, envisions the voters of the Greek Democratic Republic alone as party fans, which will add up to its percentages. It cannot understand their supra-party role, since even in its proposal the narrow party interest has been intruded and not the promotion of the interests of Hellenism in general. SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, wants Greeks abroad to participate in the national elections. He first opened the issue in this Constitutional Review, because those who already have the right should at last make it easier for them to exercise it from the places of their permanent establishment, if conditions and guarantees are laid down to ensure strong links between the Greek foreign and domestic policy, public and economic life, and conditions to ensure the continuity of the electoral process, which, in our view, is guaranteed only by the presence of the consular authorities or at stores designated by the consular authorities under the supervision of the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u408	Thank you. Let me now say that Mr Stergios Giannakis will take the floor from New Democracy immediately after Mrs Sakorafa and then Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou. Here, Mr. Giannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u409	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, no doubt the Revision of the Constitution is at the top of the table or, at least, one of the top parliamentary procedures, since the changes in our country's political map, which is our Constitution, concern today and tomorrow of our country and affect the next generations, redefine the worthy code of our culture and restore concrete shortcomings and imperfections that have become most evident during the time of the crisis. In its proposal, the New Democracy is seeking to do so. It seeks and aims to return the country to political regularity, to restore the balance of institutions, to economic stability and to the country's development prospects. It has already been ten years of economic crisis, which have tested our institutional strengths and dismantled our infrastructure. This is why the challenge of a solid review of the specific articles of the Constitution becomes particularly important. It is always in this review process that we seek cross-party consensus and a common political position, without, of course, decommissioning ideological and political principles and values. I believe that the fact that we have not been able to confuse once again in the amendment to Article 16 so that Greece will have even non-State, non-profit-making universities, as is happening throughout the civilised world, is another missed opportunity. It takes the opportunity from our country to become an international educational centre, to have a financial benefit by increasing GDP and to develop its cultural and intellectual dimension. Our neighbour countries such as Turkey, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia and Romania are increasing their GDP with students attracting from all over the world, including thousands of Greeks. Cyprus already hosts over 60 nationalities of students, ensuring that it is more than 5% of GDP in education. The country and the Greeks pay the ideological obsession and the inertia of Postmultiple, the intransigence of the student movement, as well as the syndicate interests, the lobbys of teachers who did not want to lose their privilege and monopoly. With these ideas being referred to by SYRIZA blocks the creation of private higher education, while first-class executives, of course, send their children to private and American universities. Another issue that we were unable to agree on is the revision of Article 24, in terms of the environment, the treatment of climate change and the protection of our society from the catastrophic consequences that we live in our country every year. But there are provisions that are being reviewed and fully justified by the efforts of the New Democracy. And the fact that the presidential election from the dissolution of Parliament and elections is released under Rule 32 would also be the only reason for the Revision of the Constitution. The revised provision that facilitates the emergence of the heads of independent authorities by limiting the majority required is also important, because we have all experienced the problems that existed with the previous, almost forbidden, majority. I would like to point out that, historically, the New Democracy has never played party games on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic. It has never worked out the option, anyway, from the Constitution, as opposed to what we lived in 2010 with a government of George Papandreou and in December 2014 with SYRIZA - ANEL. One provision which is our maximum national obligation is the introduction of the possibility of Greeks voting abroad under Article 54. The New Democracy has always believed in the access of Greeks abroad to the electoral process and wanted to find the way to ensure that the Greeks, who are registered on the electoral lists, have the right to vote on the one hand and also to facilitate the exercise of their electoral right on the other. Being deeply in the unity of Hellenism, I consider it important and great to revise the specific provision of Article 54 and I am sure that in the next elections the will of the Greeks outside Greece will be expressed, as well as the election of MPs from our family. Of course, I would also personally like to see the dilemma that has not been adopted today, - not under the responsibility of the New Democracy - in the context of achieving a common cross-party wording and at the expense of most of the objections raised. Equally important is the constitutional guarantee of minimum guaranteed income, a provision that shields our socially weak citizens, after defining them access to social goods, ensures them the minimum standard of living and is the answer - in practice - to the objections of counter-population allegedly lacking social sensitivity from the New Democracy's parade. And only the specific review proposal that we have proposed cancels the relevant argument. Article 68(2), which allows, for the first time, the opposition to set up a committee of inquiry, a prerogative which has so far had only this majority. Is it not, ladies and gentlemen, that provision for the support of minority rights? Is this not a valuable tool in the hands of any Opposition for more effective and democratic parliamentary control? The New Democracy, as an extrapolation of the measure, consistency and responsibility, gave the Constitution of Constantine Karamanlis a Constitution that endured time and is even a point of reference today. I am sure that this constitutional review of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis will be a new, real national start in the direction of genuine European democracy, as we deserve as a country and a people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u410	Thank you for the time too. Mrs Sacorafa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with a difficult subject. A significant number of Greeks live abroad. Some were forced to leave in the stone years or more recently, economic refugees from the modern debt colony. Many have voluntarily left, aspiring to take a career in areas that our country does not give them this opportunity. Regardless of the reasons that led them abroad, the question is their reintegration into the Greek state, with equality and inequality in representation. Depopulated Hellenism must, in essence, become part of the decision-making, which concerns the country, but also of the unscrupulous Hellenism. Our party supports and wants to promote equal participation of voters, elects, and their equal representation in the Greek Parliament is elected. We are proud that we are the only party that respects the deportees and does not see them as beans, as a tank, that is, votes which must be exhausted or weakened. In this direction and with a view to the effective safeguarding of the above, we propose adding a paragraph to Article 54 of the Constitution, which we call on the House to accept, and which, in word, has - "Election Act: It provides for a number of constituencies from the Greek Parliament outside the limits, with a number of seats in proportion to the number of seats registered in these regions of Greek citizens, permanent residents abroad with responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and of each Greek diplomatic authorities for holding the respective votes". In the light of what I have said, it is clear that we are opposed to any regulation by which the voter is forced to vote in a region in which he does not live or has never fallen. For the same reasons of transparency, reliability and essential representativeness, we were against the letter vote. Only the creation of electoral districts where they live actually gives the migrants the right to participation. And, of course, only the full equivalence of seats and registered in and outside Greece ensures equality. The fifth theme which we are discussing allows us, at the same time, to put ourselves on a more difficult subject: our vision of how we want democracy and what democracy means to us and to assume our responsibilities from this choice. Democracy has basic foundations for popular sovereignty and the rule of law. It also does not mean without national independence, which guarantees that there is a territorial area for democratic living. It is also inextricably linked to social rights, which deepen these concepts and to individual rights, which prohibit intervention in the hard core of individuality. But without popular sovereignty none of this makes sense. People's sovereignty, however, is guaranteed by the possibility of equal expression of all citizens. This possibility also ensures that it is simply proportional, with no minimum voting limit for entry into the House. The vote of all Greek citizens must have the same political weight. And that needs to be reflected in the Constitution. There will always be a need to form a government. Human life is not easy. But you can never have everything you want. We compel every moment of our lives to weigh our needs. And our political position is based on our criterion of weighing our needs and satisfying what we consider to be the most prosperous. We weight on the basis of the principle of popular sovereignty, which the Constitution sets out as the foundation of the constitution. This narrow path of democratic virtue may seem difficult today. The same difficult thing is the need to deepen popular sovereignty, by building transparently-programming and political consensus. Any power gap, then, covers the rule of law, which guarantees continuity until a government majority is formed. Fear of popular sovereignty is also fear of the rule of law that was afflicted by the Memorandum of Understanding. The concept of the public interest, which is limited by the rule of law, was identical to the daily cash need of the general government and became almost a regime. People's sovereignty also means that there are direct-democratic institutions, such as referendum and motion for a law on a popular initiative. In many modern democracies, the proposal for a law on a popular initiative has been a reality for many years. We therefore propose a wide range of citizens, so that the proposal for a law will give rise to consensus and justify its necessity. Likewise, we are proposing that referendums should also be held on budgetary matters, at the initiative of parliamentary parties or even numerous citizens in a number that again guarantees consensus and seriousness. The concept of public interest has been afflicted - as I have described - in recent years. For greater constitutional security, therefore, but also for the achievement of the greatest possible consensus of citizens and state institutions, we propose ratification of treaties, which, in the public interest, recognise to international organisations powers provided for in the Constitution which concern issues of national sovereignty, to be carried out by a double majority, a majority of 4/5 in Parliament and a referendum. We should not be afraid of referendums. Don't be afraid of referendums. A referendum solved the state issue. The referendum is practical and educational in democracy. The citizen must be aware of the responsibility for his decisions when the opinion of society is divided. So, he enters in the most festive way at the end of dichostasy, without any dissolution at all. That's why Solon was dishonestly punishing the evacuation from that responsibility. I do not know what the country would be like if our entry into the memoranda had been put in the public's judgement by a referendum. I can't even retrospectively guess the popular verdict. Nor does it make sense to appreciate the country's course if we had disciplined the popular verdict of the referendum in the summer of 2015. What I know is that we would all fight today for the future of our country on the basis of the popular verdict, more proud and more determined. Some people will say that maybe we wouldn't be united. Wrong! The truth is, we wouldn't be special. But there would be no ground for denouncing each other as a national broker and for this unacceptable division of society to continue. This is also the challenging for democracy, inherited by Mr Tsipras and the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the disrespect for the popular verdict and the contempt of popular sovereignty. Let us look brave and perhaps exclude these grim situations for future generations. In any case, however, we will be able to say that we have taken up our responsibilities with courage and vision for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mrs Sacorafa, and the consistency in time. Mrs Eleftheriadou now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u413	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, from the present procedure and what is seen as happening, it seems that the New Democracy has not understood and learned nothing from the crisis and economic diversion of the country. It seems that the officials of the New Democracy - government and not - still live in the convenient small world of the Parliament and do not understand what caused the Greek people to deceive the political system and all of us. I shall refer to three proposals by SYRIZA for the revision and interpretation of three articles concerning credibility in political life. That is why I think that all three proposals from all parties should be accepted. In Article 56, SYRIZA proposes that a new paragraph be introduced, which will be a comity of election. The substance of the addition of the SYRIZA is as follows: Members who have been in three successive parliamentary periods cannot be declared candidates or elected MPs in the next elections. We have to ask ourselves why all parties should be across. If, in fact, we want modernisation, then we need to make radical, radical moves and opportunities for younger people to understand public office. The temporary and not definitive block of election proposed by SYRIZA, so that, if it were final, our proposal could be considered undemocratic, unfortunately, it is the only way to tackle crucially the depreciation of political life and policies in general. I read the positions of the Chairman of the Committee on Revision of the Constitution, Mr Stylianides, and I was really surprised at his assumptions. It distinguishes parliamentarians in four categories: The politicians from a family - fruit - whom Mr Stylianides considers beforehand candidates, because - as he says - they have education, support and ideological references. That's what Mr. Stylianides says. It gives them significant advantages in starting up their political careers and valuable experiences before they even exercise powers. The fact that these people, precisely because they have the names, are becoming MPs and many times and Prime Ministers - such as Mr Mitsotakis - even though they are disappointingly unsuitable for these positions, did not at all involve Mr Stylianides in thinking that their terms should at least be limited, if we cannot completely avoid their parliamentary experience. The second category it identifies is the politicians in politics. It describes them as individuals who face politics as a method of easy enrichment, questioning their moral motives despite being usually capable. Indeed, Mr Stylianides accepts that history has shown that they are the ones that create the most powerful strife and that are the ones that shake people's confidence in the political system, often affecting the quality of democracy in the hard core. Are we going to leave them because of the interlocutory created around them to be MPs forever and to be rich at the expense of the Greek people? Thirdly, the self-government professionals, however, again politicians, the products of the party tube. So they invest in politics by young people and want to make it a profession. Even to them, the New Democracy does not want to set a limit on their terms because poor children have devoted themselves, he says, visionally. Are we serious? And who do you underestimate in your statements? The passers, as you say. They, he says, are elected curriculumally and are not prepared for it as others are prepared, the offspring and the party products, and they usually pass and go. Mr Stylianides did not ask himself why those who were elected for just one reason because he underestimated them the party system and put them on the lists and having social bases rather than family or party were elected. Why are they leaving? Because anyone who dares to take the place of a genus or child of the party tube against the rule, is displaced by rapid procedures from the closed system. For them, then, there is a limit of terms, but not a constitutional one. The limit is set by political and party reality and history. And, of course, no country of the Council of Europe has imposed a mandate limit on Members. But why? Because in no other country is the permanentity - in essence - of the MPs in combination with the large levels of interlocutory and corruption - to be observed in such a large extent. And no pretext is the proposed provision, as Mr Lovers referred to in his speech. Only if it is not of interest to him or to his resignation. Here we are and call on the Change Movement to accept our proposal. After all, the issue concerns, in particular, the New Democracy and the Change Movement, since they are the two parties who, with a simple search on the site of the Parliament, have the longest-lived MPs, most of whom are fruits of political jacks or children of the party tube. Rule 62 states that there is parliamentary immunity for as long as the parliamentary term for all offences. We are proposing that there should be modifications and parliamentary immunity only for offences directly related to the exercise of duties within and outside Parliament. For other offences, as well as for self-sacrificing felons, Parliament's permission is not required to be prosecuted, arrested and imprisoned. The New Democracy has only accepted that the House should not require permission for self-sacrificing felonies. So if the Member issues uncovered checks, or if he commits a car accident, or if he has been raped, should he come here and ask for the waiver of immunity or claim or wait or expect his immunity to be lifted? This, as you can see, is incomprehensible for the present day and rightly disapproves us and we are often mocked by society. This parliamentary modulation should be abolished by the ordinary citizen for all offences. Article 86(1) states, inter alia: ‘Only the Parliament shall have the power to prosecute those who have been or have been members of the Government or State Secretary for criminal offences committed in the performance of their duties’. So what do we propose? We propose adding an interpretative statement to paragraph 1, which will clarify that the offences committed simply on the occasion of the Minister and the Secretary-General and the member of the government are not included in the provision. Our aim is not to allow the House to prosecute the above persons, not only when they are a criminal offence unrelated to their duties but also when they commit a criminal offence on them, such as when they are bribed for example. It really gives me the impression that this proposal has been disgusted. Is there anyone in this Chamber who wants the immunity of the ministers, now and ex, when they commit criminal offences such as corruption? This mandate, honourable Members of the New Democracy, was given by the Greek people whose recent vote you constantly invoke when you cannot make a serious argument to support your political choices? Things are simple, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy. Do you want to clarify pending policy bribery cases without the risk of limitation from the suffocating deadlines set out in Article 86(3)? Do you want the NOVARTIS scandal to be investigated without being attempted by taking advantage of Article 86 of the Constitution to cover any criminal responsibilities of political persons? Do you realize that NOVARTIS is a registered case if Article 86 remains so and you do not accept our interpretative statement with retroactive effect? We do not create a new rule of law to be afraid of retrospective power, but we interpret the provision. We say that the real meaning of the provision is precisely that interpretation that we give it. We want to give a constitutional mess to the courts which already apply this provision. Let us all take up, even at this very moment, our responsibilities and put a heavy burden on strife and corruption by voting on the SYRIZA proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u414	Thank you and wish you a great deal for today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u415	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u416	Mr Bartzokas Anastasios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u417	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my position by making a sad remark, which is obviously not about this committee which has drawn up the Review. It is obviously not about the dear Mr Stylianidis, Mr Javara, who was rapporteur, but rather, my colleague, you have looked at the wrong side as far as you were concerned about everything you said before. This is because the Revision of the Constitution should be by definition an analogous process, it should be the end result of a reflection with historical experience, awareness and political responsibility. I am sorry to start pessimisticly, but in this case we have to admit that this is an introvertible review. For this review, ladies and gentlemen, you have a responsibility. And why do I come to that conclusion? Because it is a review trapped in the introvert and correcting errors of the political system of the past. Of course, correction is important, but, unfortunately, this is not a review that condenses the awareness of the experience we have gained over all these years of the crisis. Therefore, we cannot pretend that the new constitution that will emerge when it is completed will be the culmination of the plan and vision for the reconstruction of our country. And I am not speaking only at the level of the economy, as, because of the myopic strangles, the majority that came back prevented the golden financial rule from being incorporated as a constitutional provision. What if because of its operations we are committed to excessive primary surpluses by 2060? In particular, I am talking about ideological race, because we have missed the opportunity for at least eight years to become pioneers in the field of education. Instead of exporting the country's comparative advantage, education, we have been struggling to remain at the forefront of developments. Of course, you, ladies and gentlemen, have it, and that is why you will be charged with it. Because you insisted on exercising all your policies as long as you were a majority on Caines' dogma, which says that in the long term we will all be dead, so we only care about it now, be close tomorrow. Our children, however, and our grandchildren will be the recipient of our policies and their lives will be determined by these choices. So, there we should have focused to prevent the future of the place from suffering what the Greek people have suffered over the years. But we did not do so, and the footprint of history will not be positive. To come to the subject of today's discussion, the proposed provisions of Rule 62 and Article 86 concerning the reduction of the dutylessness of Members and the abolition of the short deadline for the criminal liability of the ministers were voted by a large majority. This is of importance, because in this way it is manifested that the most pressing majorities that our strict constitution wants, namely the non-voluntary, have been achieved not because of the forcedness of its guarantees but because of a broad consensus and I do not need to point out that consensus is a fundamental condition of the Review. In addition, these majorities demonstrate the need for the political world to restore the value of politics and the legal feeling of citizens. It is true that many times the so-called privileges of parliamentarians and ministers have been abused, as instead of their use being exhausted in ensuring the smooth and effective exercise of their duties, they have been used as a sign of misguided solidarity. This will be corrected by the vote of the revised Rule 62, as Parliament's authorisation to prosecute MPs for offences not linked to the exercise of their duties and political activity will be compulsory and the short amortisation period for the exercise of Parliament's competence to prosecute a Minister for Criminal Responsibility will be abolished. I would like to remind you here that a proposal for the revision of the criminal liability article had been made by current Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis as early as 2007, which, ladies and gentlemen, did not find the resonance from you. To conclude, I would like to say this: Politicians, in the sense of natural persons taking decisions, cannot be treated as ordinary citizens as part of a level playing field, because politics is the most active activity in which power and power are redistributed between conflicting and conflicting interests. In this light, the constitutional guarantees for the uninterrupted exercise of their duties, the resilience of which history itself confirms, must exist in order not to get to the full inertia so that we can boldly balance these interests in the interests of the public interest. I am referring to this because by attending the meetings of the committee, I have heard proposals for a complete abolition. Of course, we must not forget that the restoration of the price of the political world is basically a restoration to the price of politics and it is not just through the change of constitutional order. The restoration of the price of politics is in the minds and political morale that we must have. I close by slightly paraphrasing the expression of the leading political expression and meditator Max Webber: 'We cannot dare put our hands on the wheel of history without consciousness of the measure, responsibility and passion'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u418	To thank Mr Bartzokas, first of all, for the time and give the floor to Mr Kegeroglu. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u419	Ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional review process is progressing. Today is the last day of discussions and many colleagues, particularly from New Democracy and SYRIZA, are referring in a way to specific provisions, which each party proposes otherwise, as if it were not a majority today, and as if SYRIZA were not in the previous House. What do I mean? That the constitutional review that rightly bears the title "best with many lost opportunities and a few cowardly steps forward" is the result of the micro-party response from the previous majority of SYRIZA and the current New Democracy. This is the result of your own second thoughts and purposes. From there on, we have to see - and we can see - in the small range, which has been defined, what better to be done. So let us not continue with the specula and those perceptions, which have already led to the reduction of the articles and the spirit of a constitutional revision needed by the country. And the country needed it, not only because developments at global level and at European level run a lot faster than we understand, but also because there are issues on which there should be a provision and a check of the Constitution, so that the policy and then Parliament can legislate in a specific way and in a specific direction, guaranteeing either basic social goods for all or policies that will lead us to address the environmental crisis or issues that have to do with the functioning of the society. I want to raise two points here. First of all, there is a great deal to be said about. I was amazed to read a statement by SYRIZA today saying that the constitutionalisation of the decent standard of living is a trap of poverty. Mercy! Politics is a trap of poverty, the policy announced by Mr. Mitsotakis will increase the poor from four hundred thousand to eight hundred thousand what Mr. Tsipras did before. I will present in the Minutes an article published in the NEWS on 15 December 2018 entitled “From the guaranteed income to the poverty trap of Mr. Tsipras”. Today, Mr. Tsipras as Opposition has come to confirm my article in “NEA” and thus to confirm my criticism of his policy, SYRIZA, who has turned an integrated institution to safeguard social goods and work into weak people in a common allowance necessary for the weak, but at the same time not capable of getting them out of the labour margin. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, I consider it crucial - and I will speak again - that the election of the President of the Republic should take place. Mercy, colleagues from New Democracy! Do not proceed to the order in the words that the majority of the members show a president. You're smoothing up the institution! What serious man will accept with the first and poor, as I think he will otherwise, when he is proposed to be President of the Republic by a relevant majority? A conditional majority can be formed with seventy-five votes and fifty? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u420	Fifty not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u421	You haven't even put one hundred and twenty. I thought a hundred and twenty had entered, and I said today that with a hundred twenty is a defection, but I don't see a hundred or twenty. Is there?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u422	Seventy-five.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u423	The lower one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u424	Seventy-five. What serious man will he accept to make the President of the Republic with seventy-six votes? High symbolism the institution, humiliated the way to show off! No, put on some insurance policy. I think you have room until Monday to improve the layout. We have made a clear provision, not to provoke elections through prolongation. You choose one hundred and fifty. Even so, your point of view. We do not agree, but it is a view that so far has a seriousness, from there and down there it is not serious. And because you are serious people - I do not think you are serious people - you cannot introduce non-serious provisions. They're cultural clubs? Nor does that happen in cultural clubs. There is no such thing in cultural organizations. I'm very humiliated at it, but that's the way it is, unfortunately, things are. Let's go to Article 54, casting a vote. Here's the deal--they're a high-sized, nipple to drown a topic. All right, we said. In my opinion, the Communist Party is introducing the ABM and even importing it. In other words, a criterion relating to economics for civil rights, which is now for the vote of the impoverished foreign rights and tomorrow will come to Greece in the future and with the same thought they will bring it to Greece: Introduction of an economic criterion, says here, APM. One put APM in Greece, the other made two years, that is, if one comes to Greece for the last eleven years from two months each year, has no ties with Greece and is not entitled to vote. So it puts each one of his limitations. The only restriction that has not entered - but because it is in consultation, some will think about it and suggest it - is to tell us what party it is voting on to get him to vote on. What's this? Here we are all responsible, of course. It's not just the New Democracy, it's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u425	We have the least responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u426	So let us say let the logic come back. I repeat to you the four criteria that we are saying are clear: to be included in the updated electoral lists, which are updated by the municipalities every three or every four months, if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u427	Every March.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u428	Every year, then. So be on the lists. The second point is that these people who wish to be registered should be included in the special electoral lists, of course - quite rightly you say it - from the respective national lists - yes - and move on to the letter vote. She counts in the result, there's not half a vote. It'll count, he says, the vote for the local council but it won't count in the municipality. Or it'll count for one and it won't count for the other. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The most embarrassing one to introduce - Mr Theodorikos is not here - is that the restrictions, he says, apply if you vote for the national elections. If you vote on the European elections, they don't. All right, we said, he's in the consultation, and I hope it's over. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Because I have no more time to make a request to the government, to finally give us its proposal for Article 54, that is, the constitutional part for the vote on revenue. It is neither necessary nor in line with constitutional science. We have Mr Gerapetti, whom I said that his scientific property, knowledge and scientific opinion will come into conflict sooner or later, with his political practice. He came too fast. Let it not bring into law a provision which - as a common law - does not introduce any case-by-case and individual provisions. In the general wording that we have proposed that law defines the way and in the light of ties, the general provision "in the light of ties" should be inserted, but, mercy, do not put VDUs. Don't put such things in the constitutional provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u429	Which we haven't seen yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u430	Can you imagine that LVM will enter the constitutional provision and then abolish the law and be named otherwise? Can you imagine, huh? Because it's not a constitutional terminology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u431	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u432	So we have a loose end that should not go until Monday. In a reasonable time, the government must table the provision for placing us in place. There's a tendency to reach agreement. But let it not be turned into a nut and drowning, because in the end the right will have ended, it will not exist before it is established. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u433	Now Mr. SYRIZA has the floor for eight minutes. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the constitutional review, the parties are given the opportunity to redefined their position and direction. Watching all these days of work, I think about what New Democracy is. Is it a liberal party? Is it neoliberal? Is it folk? The New Democracy, in the face of the liberal party and the modern European party, rejects provisions that all European liberals have accepted, but, of course, of the far right-wing Orban and Salvini. It therefore refuses to accept the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sex or sexual orientation, while at the same time this purely-blooded European party is fighting for tight embrace of state and power. With such transformations, it seems that she is neither liberal nor neoliberal nor a popular party. An association of persons is meeting to achieve momental goals and then changes position and coordinates. I would therefore like to speak on the vote of the relatives included in the Constitutional Review. To accept, of course, right from the outset that every Greek who has the Greek nationality has an electoral right. The organization of the inalienable right to vote, however, took a long time. Generally speaking, the prior government of SYRIZA had no objection to this important issue. But no government ever proceeded to the slightest move. No initiative has been taken, apart from fine and great words. The first government of SYRIZA recommended by a law on the intergroup, the Haritsis Minister and the Secretary-General, Kostas Pulakis, and the conclusion of this committee is sprinkling in the drawers of the Ministry of Interior. In the general time that the Government of New Democracy is discerning, it attempted to set up a game of impression that SYRIZA did not want the vote of the expatriates and that the New Democracy sought it out. The harsh reality, of course, disguises her and I am talking about her reality through a statute of a guaranteed intergroup committee and the work she has done. However, this reality is not pleasing to a large number of mass media supporting this government, and so reality, the truth is not communicateable. So what will be the criterion - to return to the vote - of the homosexuals for this vote? The real bond with the country. We expect it to be clarified by those who propose it and to note that there should be a great consensus on all issues of fraud. So the Greeks, according to what SYRIZA proposed in the Proposed House, will have their own representatives in the House, through a roll-call vote, say abroad. In other words, what Greeks abroad will represent them. SYRIZA argues that the relatives should be able to give their vote to their own persons, persons who live and know their own reality. Their vote cannot be taken into account in a general election, where the votes from New York, from Melbourne and Munich will be donated by people who do not come from the family and do not know their peculiarities and problems. The fact that a leader or party may appoint candidates from the nationality of the party's constituent voter, once again deciding whether to be in election or non-election, removes the personal choice from the relatives. I believe that it is vigilant and only uses it for the party's victory, indifferent to the particular 'l want' and the needs of the homosexuals. We have noted above that all Greeks must have the right to facilitate voting. However, if it is not added here and the condition that the electorate of the permanent residents be prevented, then we will have circumvented the democratic principle which must govern every decision and act of ours, but we will have consciously denied the relevant European experience. What does this experience say? According to this, it is necessary to examine the solutions adopted by countries with considerable difference, such as ours. And the experience of these countries - Portugal, France, Italy - accepts these representatives from abroad, guaranteeing the right, not only to elect, but also to vote. The experience of these spaces therefore brings us closer to the model currently supported by SYRIZA. In the process of dialogue on the vote of the relatives, the New Democracy, by abandoning its original position on the letter of election of all the foreign voters without any differentiation in the way in which they count, rather than accepting the only - I believe - logical and operational proposal, namely the proposal of the SYRIZA, adopts the JRC's proposal - respectable - but in conditions that this proposal puts forward, which have expressed their objections even to Members who support the government. One of these conditions is active VAT. Let's see. I do not know if you believe that a sufficient number will be found, a sufficient percentage of American or Australian residents who are currently active in LNG in Greece. I don't know if you think you'll find a lot of those. Also, 30 years conditional. SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, proposes that non-national voters choose their representatives among the voters of the party's foreign standing. To this end, the number of Members of Parliament may be increased to twelve, in accordance with the ceiling allowed by the Constitution. Let us note that the MPs representing the relatives have the same rights and obligations as all Members of the Greek Parliament. The relatives have a voice and it must be heard in Parliament. Their voices are conveyed by Members elected by them. Their vote is not lost in all the voters of each party. It is not used by a "multiple" mission that has to alter the election result. Here we are and call on you to prove that you are respecting democracy, that you are respecting the migrants and that you are not using them simply because I deeply believe that at the moment you are using our relatives only for your own small-party interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u435	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Zebplis has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Mouszalas from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Zebble, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in June 1975 there were only two consecutive days when they had to determine the modern political history of this place. On 12 June the official request for Greece's full membership of the EEC was lodged, while on a day earlier, on 11 June, the new constitution of the country had entered into force, a constitution which, as usual, was not politically neutral, as it was preparing for the entry of our country into the great European family. The principles of freedom, solidarity, the protection of human dignity, i.e. the values of the Western world and our democratic civilization, prevailed. It was a liberal constitutional text with a progressive sign, open to the challenges of the future. Since then, much water has flowed on the groove of history, yet the 1975 Constitution remains alive and timely. The flexible nature of its constitutional provisions, which allowed its content to be filled, which was always changing to the social and political conditions, contributed to this. In this way, along with the Constitution, a specific political practice was developed, which has sometimes remained faithful to the spirit of the constitutional legislature and has sometimes been subject to political purposes, in violation of the ratio of constitutional arrangements. An example of circumvention, apart from Article 32(4) for the presidential election, is also Article 62 on parliamentary immunity which we are debating today in the context of the fifth thematic section. There has been an abusive application of the parliamentary immunity provision. The report itself did not present any ambiguity or interpretative questions, particularly after the amendment of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure. After all, the plenary of the House at the last session dealing with such matters, on 3 October 2019, rightly interpreted and applied the existing provision of Rule 62, because that provision that protects civil life from criminalisation does not cover either the previous indifferent activity of the Member or offences regardless of his parliamentary or political activity. So it was a mistaken parliamentary practice that sometimes underwent a misguided conception of a syndicate that made this provision problematic, and that the country should be condemned by the Court of Human Rights. On the other hand, Article 86(3) on the prosecution proceedings against a Minister was the black point of the Constitution, since the planned amortization deadlines have always produced suspicions of limitation and impunity. At a time when political morals are normalized, this suffocating framework for the birth of the criminal prosecution was most privileged for the political staff of the country. And he gave the occasion to dark and anti-political forces for unfair attacks that poisoned public life, cultivating the humblest popular instincts. Today, with the Constitutional Review, the political system restores its credibility and shields democratic institutions and transparency, because transparency requires unnecessarily respect for the principle of rigour in the interpretation and application of the provisions concerning political persons. I now come to the ninth theme. I had planned to speak in relation to the vote on the motions for resolutions, but questions were raised by both the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman and also by the Members we heard, particularly in relation to the simple proportional nature and how it is applied to the results of Spain and Sanchez. In relation to the proposal on 'constitutionalisation' of mere analogy, as it stands in the interpretative statement, we must point out that our country has a long culture and tradition of an enhanced analogue system since the late 1950s. Also, almost all post-transitional governments under normal conditions were founded on a comfortable, compact and disciplined parliamentary majority. This majority ensured stability, cohesion, undisturbed longevity and prosperity. This has helped modernise and strengthen the country, but also deepen and resilience to our democratic institutions. However, there is another dimension of the issue. In other European states that have more proportional systems, the constitutional framework allows for the search for a government for a long period of time or even provides for a minority government. Contrary to Greece, due to the historical load of Julians, the system of exploratory orders is strict and typical. It requires the formation of the government in ten to fifteen days. In this context, the revision of provisions 41 and 37 should therefore also be proposed in order to facilitate the formation of coalition governments by optimising the process and strengthening the powers of the President of the Republic. In fact, simply proportionally with the proposal to elect the President of the Republic from the people would create an explosive mixture of political instability. I will not go any further into the analysis of this subject which was debated yesterday, but because, in fact, there were concerns - they were expressed shortly before - I would like to say that life will show that the practice already being followed in this post of persons with greater authority, often from an opposite political standpoint, will be established as a strong political tradition and a customary element of constitutional reality, which will determine the decisions of political leaders. Let us now see what is happening in European countries with electoral systems closer to the simple analogue, such as Spain that has been mentioned. There in the last year we had two elections and a total of four election procedures in equal years. We had government, uncertainty and political unrest. Even today there is a paralytic deadlock, because the socialists, despite their cooperation with the Podemos, are still a minority, so the great country of the Iberian Peninsula is burning from a political, social and economic crisis. And, as always, political instability favours the anti-political and anti-democratic forces, so that the extreme right in Spain in the last elections exceeds 15%. So the simple analogue that you so fascistically restored to Spain has brought far-right, fascism and racism back. If, therefore, these occur in analogue countries, one can easily consider the catastrophic consequences for Greece. It is what Mr Tsipras said, 'good late than never', but unfortunately we are now at 'never'. There is no "slow" yet, it is not the process. We've been in the conversation for years. In conclusion, I would like to say that at the beginning of 2019 I read a statement of SYRIZA about the constitutional review entitled "because above all it is a question of equality and democracy". For the time being, I thought it was just analogous or a vote of the homosexuals. Reading more carefully, however, I found that the SYRIZA Department of Migration and Refugee Policy called for the revision of Article 102 of the Constitution in order to add the explicit reference to the electoral right of foreign immigrants in local government elections. It makes sense and accepts sensitivity and I imagine that there is sensitivity from all of us to the Greeks of the family, especially to those who include all four hundred and fifty thousand scientists who were forced to leave our country in the years of the crisis. So I think I should be allowed to borrow this comprehensive and appropriate title to describe in three words the justification for the new paragraph of Article 54: everything is a question of equality and democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u437	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Muzalas has the floor from SYRIZA for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u438	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that it is a great honour for what has happened in my life and I am attending Parliament's meetings on constitutional revision. I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs of all three parties because, in fact, I felt that their word was very studied, their arguments were very well documented, they were too tired to make their speeches, and regardless of where they disagree and where one agrees, they were all three excellent, to the extent that their speeches could be printed and essayed, regardless - I say again - of whether anyone agrees or disagrees with what they have said. I was impressed not like ignorant but by the tiredness they have made to bring these speeches here and how these positions - and possibly also the burden of responsibility they have - led this House to a process which, despite the disagreements, was mainly determined by the democraticity of dialogue. Thank you, therefore, very personally, all the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u439	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u440	Thank you for your kind words.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u441	And we thank you for your good words.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u442	It's from the heart, really, I'm impressed! The House has been elected by society, expressing society. For these days we're meeting here, I'm going to make a report about what's going on outside. The 'NOVARTIS' scandal - 'NOVARTIS', money release and complaint from 'FINANCIAL TIMES' for 1 billion euros, Mr Frrozis gets back the unreasonably acquired 1,2 million euros in Switzerland - and that is positive, regardless of the fact that we will disagree with the debate - the budget submitted by the Government to the European Union was the celebration of the Polytechnics, which was clearly an anti-governmentist character, as it always has, whatever the government may be. It wasn't a peculiarity, but that's what happens objectively since the Polytechnic events exist. The action of the 'bugs' - I put it in introductory terms, it is bad, I cannot find another - has increased, but police arbitrariness has risen incredibly. In a very concentrated time: an invasion of ASE, beatings, children in a musical area sitting hostages - we are talking about three hundred children, which are your children and my children -, reported surveillance, virtual rape and two, three fools - obviously - of the New Democracy - I do not blame New Democracy for this - have created a contraception of what suffered virtual rape. I have heard too many times a lamentation about public and private universities and the missed opportunity. I must point out that for the first time I have listened so lamented to these students who will not be able to study, which is an opinion. This view would have been absolutely respected if the School of Law had not been closed in Patras and the abolition of twenty-eight university programmes. It is a contradiction that must concern you and us and all of us. We have a significant increase in insurance contributions, a accumulation of unpaid pensions, for the fifth time the government in five months announces measures on refugee and immigration, which are again at the level of propaganda, ineffective, not applicable. Above all, for the first time, however, one sees a tone in barbarism, which will bring the country's convictions to bear in the implementation of these measures, if they are implemented and it is not just another propaganda. We have hundreds of bank employees who are transferred to remote places and islands if they do not voluntarily agree to enter a fund that the bank makes for red loans. We have a million-dollar scandal at the National Bank for well-paid consultants. We have a gradual abolition of the AACC bypass. We have the decisions after fourteen years for Christmas and for Tsukatos, which, in practice, do not honor us as a citizen. It would be foolish to expect me to talk to you about Article 36, verse 12, paragraph 25. I don't understand any of this. I'm trying to figure out the essence of some things. Why is the Constitution of paramount importance? Because it's actually about our everyday lives, because it's this carpet on which we're going to walk all our lives until they're rechanging and they're gonna be late. So underneath the fact that the speech and diligence of the documentation shown by the rapporteurs are not left behind in a harsh conflict, and that is not bad. It's right, and that's how it's supposed to be and it can't be. Because a word or a paragraph can imprison or release parts of our daily life. So it is not the Constitution that is theoretical, even though it is the theoretical debate that will enrich it, but it is something of a direct practical nature that concerns our everyday lives. Allow me. Sex discrimination is not a theoretical issue. It can lead to different wages. It can lead to different behaviours from authorities that lead to arbitrary practices. It can lead back to a subordinate wage. The refusal of the interpretative statement objectively leads to the ambiguity of NOVARTIS. No matter what theoretical things one says, it leads there. Therefore, not to be accepted, it means that some with their vote will have to memorize 'NOVARTIS'. With regard to the threshold for Members' term of office - which is self-evident - it seems that there is an inherited right to an authority which considers the opposite to be self-evident. But are you sure that it expresses our people? He's probably expressing everyone's voters, but his society is expressing it to us? Whether to get in that they are decent living conditions or minimum guaranteed income 213 euros, closes the possibilities of our people to demand and achieve better living conditions. Whether the state guarantees universal access to social goods, for example public health, education, it has a huge difference and a huge distance from the state's taking care of it. The President of the Republic is a minority? I don't want to offend anyone, but could that be a serious proposal? The Golden Rule within the Constitution? Into the Constitution that the State ensures economic activity in favour of entrepreneurship rather than in favour of the general interest? I could quote to you some of this insane Tsatsos. I have a special love for his writings. He concludes: "The Greek Orthodox has a small advantage from the Greek Muslim. The Greek Orthodox has a small advantage from the Greek Jew, by the Greek atheist." It shouldn't be through the Constitution for this to come out. Without this dismantling our country's historical ties to Orthodoxy. The majority rapporteur - Mr Javarra, I have noted exactly what you said - said...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u443	Mr. Muzala, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u444	Allow me. I'm done. I'm usually glamorous, but now... He said, “There is equality in criminal law. There are no discriminations.’ "Everyone against corruption is on the same side of the hill." I think we're confusing the eunuch with reality. I could quote Tsatsos, Magakis, Prosecutor Matthias, Mr Diamantopoulou recently made a book worth reading. - to approach reality, the Constitution needs the right word and the right paragraph. And here, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have shown a retreat to basic principles. Retreat to positions you had in the previous Review of the Constitution. Retreats not to left-wing authorities but to civil-democratic authorities. There is nothing to do with your so-called European orientation. SYRIZA will continue to contribute to the development of democratic solutions. After all, the Constitution is legally reliable but also reliable on the patriotism of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u445	Mr. Comrade, please. There will be a lot of Members left without talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u446	SYRIZA, in its transformation into the broad representation of the majority democratic progressive party, will stand up to the preservation that is being promoted, will stand in favour of any positive proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u447	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I would like to remind you that there are too many Members who have not spoken. Therefore, overcoming time by anyone deprives anyone of the opportunity to speak. That is why I would ask you to respect the time. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u448	The rapporteurs will not have a démarche, in other words?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u449	I imagine that not tonight, Mr Colleague, because twelve o'clock has to be closed. Unless you want so much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u450	No, no. Whatever you say, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u451	I'll be a little strict today! The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr Bakadima, has the floor for 15 minutes now. Immediately after that, two colleagues will speak. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kamines, has also asked for the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u452	Are we going to finish at 12:00?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u453	That's how it's decided. That is why I told you that every overrun of time is at the expense of some colleagues. And that's what we have to respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have followed with great interest and this debate today. As a new Member, believe me, I feel very honoured for my participation in such an interesting process, but also for the fact that I am in Step at the moment to speak about the articles under review that belong to the two existing sections, the fifth and the ninth. Going now to the detailed debate on the provisions, one of the main points of today's debate is Article 62 on the non-violent Members and Rule 86 on the prosecution of members of the government and the establishment of a special court. Our party's firm and unnegotiable position is that we should abolish parliamentary immunity on criminal matters, while on matters relating to parliamentary duties and suspected of political responsibilities, the Members and the representatives or members of the governments elected must be 'appointed' in the House, in the committee responsible. We are firmly opposed to maintaining the inequality that exists with regard to the position of a Member of Parliament as opposed to a ordinary citizen. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, to uphold the opinion of a number of citizens on us, that Members of Parliament are unavoidable, and even if we commit a crime, we should have a long time before the case-file arrives in this House and it is very likely that there will be no responsibilities at all, since other Members will have to look at the file. We also consider it incomprehensible that a Member may not be prosecuted or arrested without the permission of the House, and that only the House can prosecute those who have been or are members of the government even for criminal offences. We therefore call, in addition to the total abolition of parliamentary immunity, for the abolition of the special deadline for the limitation of the offences of the Ministers, State Secretarys and other political persons to be abolished. As a result of all this, it will eventually be political persons subject to the necessary legal procedures without the leave of the House and to prosecute them when the judicial officers consider it necessary, putting their parliamentary status aside. This also requires equality and it is an opportunity to adopt it at last by establishing it in constitutional terms, allowing the citizens to understand that we are ready to go further than the previous Review Vultures and, finally, abolishing parliamentary immunity. The time has come. It's the right thing to do. We wonder whether we can show the political will as a whole so that equality and equilibrium can be extended to those Members who will be punished if they commit a crime, as the law defines and without any discrimination in their favour. We must finally stop cultivating our fellow citizens the impression that the House is covering up and closing its eyes. It is an appropriate opportunity to put an end to a bad practice launched by the first Constitution of 1844 and with fluctuations it was maintained in 1975, with the formulation of the relevant Articles 85 and 86, while the 2001 review only changed a little. Shortly thereafter, in 2003, the Ministers’ Responsibility Act came. To remember a little what had happened at the time. The rapporteur in the 2001 Review was Evangelos Venizelos and the Ministers Responsibility Act, the then Minister for Justice, Philip Petsalnicos. The 2001 report by Mr Venizelos at all times has changed the framework, strengthening the protection net even further, extending the time of competence until the end of the next regular session, providing for an extremely short limitation, especially if we consider that at the time a government usually took four years. It also re-established a provision in force during the junta and provided for the transfer of the case-file to the Parliament at any stage which was contrary to the name of a political person holding a place of the State Secretary or Minister and for the suspension of the public prosecutor's inquiry. It is a provision that has so far been in force with the results known to all of us. If we consider, ladies and gentlemen, what followed the revision of Article 86 in 2001 and the adoption of the relevant law in 2003, with the dismantling of public money, all the sea-lovings given to many parties, all the financial scandals involving politicians, even the memoranda signed, would not be excessive if it were said that the reform of this article actually kept in the unavoidable many ministers and other political persons to whom no responsibility will ever be attributed. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems as if Mr Venizelos had divisive abilities at the time and could see what would follow our country's entry into EMU, he tried and succeeded in creating a strong protection net and later revisions of the law in 2007 and 2011, a net that did not bode well on its own, since the revised article at that time went through two hundred and eighty-three votes - hundred and fifty-five PASOKs and twenty-five members of the New Democracy - while the aim of creating a constitutional infrastructure, which would ensure our country's undivided participation in European integration, as underlined by the rapporteur's report of the PASOK proposal - even if that meant in future protection to members of governments who finally brought the country into the situation that is today - from the dictator of the then Prime Minister Georgios Papandreou in Kastelorios, as well as the first one-member country, as well as the one-member country, as part-member country, as well as the first-member country's-elected countries, which has been in favoured and the first-member countries, as well-members-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s As Mera25, we are certainly positive and want to investigate the country's entry into the memoranda, from the first to the fourth, and, of course, to give any political responsibilities to the parties involved. Although many political forces have been placed quite often in favour of the need to change the law on the responsibility of Ministers and to revise this article, the question remains whether or not we can at last remove it. And because I have heard today from speakers from the New Democracy charge us, at Mera25, inconsistency in the issue of immunity, I have a proposal, ladies and gentlemen. How about we now give hands here and abolish the article on Monday, when the overall review will be voted on? Let us move on to the next and equally important article, Rule 54, concerning the electoral system, the constituencies and the national parliamentarians. With regard to the replacement of the first paragraph, we are proposing the introduction of a system of simple proportional elections and the formation by a law of balanced population elections, while not allowing one-sided or two-way elections. In passing now on to the issue of the vote of the deputies, ladies and gentlemen, Merra25 was the first party, which, from the Step of the House, in its first speech, in the government's planning statements, the party's secretary, Yiannis Varoufakis, referred to this issue in the vote of the deceased and as a party, we have supported from the outset the full restoration of the electoral rights of the Greeks abroad and the facilitation of their exercise. That is why we have tabled a comprehensive proposal for a law on this facility, so that Greeks who live outside the country can vote, and from the outset we have come to a conclusion which has been reflected in the proposal for a law that we have tabled, that it is necessary to separate the migrants into two categories, to the Greeks who have left the country in the last few years of the crisis, schematically, from 2010 onwards, and those who have been living for a long time outside Greece. The first, with still close ties with the country, we believe that we should - and this was part of our proposal - be able to vote from their country of residence for the region in which they belonged to Greece. On the other hand, from democrats who live for twenty, thirty or more years abroad to be able to vote for the constituencies of Greeks, apart from the boundaries of our territory, by choosing as representatives people who know and send to the Greek Parliament the problems and peculiarities of each region, but also by transferring the pulse of Greece, the Greek Parliament to our avenues, who always follow closely the issues of our country. I will not go any further on this matter and on the economy of time, since we will be able to discuss it again when it comes to plenary and the relevant law. The second article under review in the ninth section is Article 56, which deals with blocks of election. Motion of Mer25 is not to make a change, and our thinking is simple. We do not think that it is necessary to establish a legislative limit on the parliamentary term, as recommended by the House. We believe that citizens can make the right choices and prevent the professionalisation of Parliamentary status from being chosen. A very simple example is that today's Parliament has too many new Members who were first elected. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an important opportunity to make changes which will disguise the thoughts of the citizens who have honoured us with their vote by sending us here as their representatives. That is why we must, even now, at the end of the debate on the review - particularly now at the end of it - and in the final vote on Monday, take some courageous steps, institutionalising constant requests and I want them to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u455	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Blucho has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the institutions and the Constitution are signatories. The institution is legitimized and the law is enforced. Fully or occasionally, as you used to us, the work of the institutions in the most unambiguous and cynical way, especially in the conditions of social hypnosis of the winter collective subject, leads, on the one hand, to institutional fatigue and incapacitation and, on the other hand, society is left uncontrollable to the instinctive desire and the absence of meaning is intensified. That is why we now need rapid steps, with a much more bold and more decisive approach to form a new institutional and political balance, a new symmetry in the country, a new institutional harmony in our country. This is what the government majority is doing with its proposal. The answer we would like to give is to do less, but to do better. Preferences and various myths, created in civil society, exist in relation to the deterioration of institutions during the economic crisis. There is a doubt about the quality of the institutions themselves. The danger is that the total depreciation of the public space and institutions that are working, other consciously and other unconsciously leads to the political crisis. The denial of the hopes of radical individualism ends up in a touching front of a refusal of politics, thus the politicians are in permanent defence and appear exclusively committed to economic one-ways, thus creating a folk deficit in their politics. Ultimately, the only way out of a scene of wrath, anger and indulgence is a new social contract of truth and responsibility that our citizens and our Government are shaping. It is a wish to take part, not to escape from being sedated into a kind of religious ideologies, apologies of your ideological, fantasy left-wing ideologies. In response to some stigmaties of strong criticism from the opposition, the conquest of democracy that you are taking, and you are only privilegedly selling that you are serving, active and daily sport and no regulatory framework of principles, monophasizing and levels, can entangle or entrenched, so it will negate the dynamic nature of the process. The only thing that defines it, demands it or denounces it is respect for the society of relations, the targeting of collective subject and the maturity that is displayed by people and politicians. I inform you that it is obvious that in this sport you are fighting maliciously and maliciously, when your micro-participatory feasibility and populist rhetoric are exaggerated. So you ask yourself, any quality of political controversy - if anyone is being rescued today - does it also require institutionalisation? Ladies and gentlemen, the quality of politics and the presence or not of leading statures define the value or decency, correctness or distortion, vitality or disrespect of institutions. The more guilty there are on the one hand, both there are on the other, the more guilty the political system is and doubtless it is, both guilty and populism that exalts, mocks and targets arsonically, it stimulates the popular anger and instincts of masses. Yes, while your aim is obvious, meaninglessness and zeroness, but at institutional level, this is considered not only ineffective, but also potentially dangerous. This institutional reconstruction, starting from the Revision of the Constitution, must be framed by radical renewal and enrichment with new people who will effectively reject customer practices, pursue without compromise corruption, be governed by a spirit of common offer, responsibility and solidarity. Today, our values are being persecuted and not the institutionalised rules, the regulatory authorities, the Constitution. The Constitution, any regulatory authority, however good it is, can be lost and degraded by meaning undetermined. The lack of adaptability, bad attitudes and the total immaturity that we display in the demand for the public interest will always suffer from institutionalisation. It is assumed that appropriate records are missing or that conditions and circumstances have been removed. Is it the bad institutions? Is it the fraudulent representativeness? Is it the looting party? Is it the client report of politics? It's the Constitution, so what? New constitution? They also heard voices of immediacy and voices of participation. Are the voices of umbilical and regenerating self-recognition, constitutional reflection, realistic democratic modernisation? Rather, they are voices of autistic rhetoric behavior and glimpse of hypocrisy, the popularity of unprecedented enthusiasm of the popular body. We need to win a lot, to prove more, to respect civil society and not to prejudge dangerous acrobatics, which will narrate the very essence of our collective subject. Greece, at the worst stage of postpopulation, has the last chance imposed by the abyss. Losing the opportunity from the Proposed House to radicalize the Revision - a translucent example of Article 16 - the government majority goes beyond its proposal in whole institutional draws, opportunistic practices and reputable historical ideas. The removal of the so-called prerogatives of civil servants - yes, imperative and necessary - cannot, however, be reactively and over-armed at the other end and the ministerial status must be thrown down to the proliferation of bicommunism and, above all, cannot and must not end up in the desperate situation of full responsibility. At the heart of the revision of Article 86 it is widely accepted that it is necessary to abolish the depreciation period, in particular, to alleviate the reactions of the citizen poisoned by the construction of the myth of protecting the ramps of political life. Article 62 has nothing to do with its problematic wording, rather than its problematic application, which consists of abusive and distortive immunity. On the other hand, without institutional mesh, parliamentarians are becoming easily slavery in arbitrary intentions or abusive and misguided, unfounded reports. Ladies and gentlemen, only a superficial approach to our institutional crisis can well be attributed to our general institutional immaturity. In our case perhaps the problem is not the formal institutions, but rather the informal, the rules of conduct which clearly do not stem from the legislative procedure. It doesn't matter what laws you have, how complete they are, what their legal quality is. What matters is whether and how they are implemented, that is, the law of the act. While the role of the informal institutions is primarily subsidiary, it actually becomes protagonists and decisive. Even the most advanced and modern constitution cannot guarantee the rule of law if it is not based on a tradition of civil society. The question is whether both the political system and society are in a situation of the perpetual dilemma of the prisoner. What does that mean? Could not initialise Evolution's mail component. To be well-known, the institutions need servants of fighters, with prudence, contempt, boldness, responsibility, honesty and morality. I conclude, Madam President, with the enlightened thought of Plutarchos: 'There is no more perfect advantage for humans than virtue in relation to politics'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u457	Thank you, Mr. Bluehock. Mr. Himaras from New Democracy has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have the honour and the highest responsibility to make up the Fourth Revision House after the first post-government Constitution of 1975, a Revision House that emerged from urgent social, political and economic issues that have dealt with our country since the previous Constitutional Review, that of 2008. The baton has now come to our hands, and it is our turn to cross the mark of what is an expression of a top parliamentary initiative, the constitutional review. The New Democracy first proposed that, during the previous parliamentary term, all proposals should be put forward for revision in the House, from any democratic aspect of this House and, if they come, that they should be based on a broad and constructive dialogue to build the foundations for a radically innovative constitutional review, compatible with the needs of the country and with the conditions which it is going through. The five main axes on which the New Democracy proposals were formulated were development, merit, solidarity, excellence and credibility. The SYRIZA government was then in the opposite direction, whose proposals for the provisions to be reviewed are empirically and minimally backwards. At this point, I would remind you of the deep political controversy which had taken precedence over the revision of Articles 16 and 24. Since I do not want to tire you, I will only mention some very characteristic points of the speeches by Mr Mitsotakis and Alexis Tsipras during the debate on the revision of Article 16 of the Constitution, at the plenary session of 13 February 2019. "For us two articles, Article 16 and Article 24, are top political articles", said then Mr.Mitsotakis, while addressing Mr. Tsipras stressed: "You have not found a word to explain why it is progressive, Greece is essentially the only country in the world" - North Korea is not even included in this list, because North Korea, ladies and gentlemen, has a private university - "... which does not allow private universities to be established." In reply to this, Mr Tsipras and in the absence of any arguments he simply said that the debate on Article 16 believes that it has been exhausted, as well as the debate on Article 24. He has reminded us in this way, once again, of his short-sighted policy. So, clear targeting to return to my words, SYRIZA's proposals have led the country to a final situation, unable to use its potential and resources, to meet the challenges of the future. Let us now move on to today's theme and, in particular, to the revision of Article 86 of the Constitution, also known as the 'Ministerial Responsibility' article. Ladies and gentlemen, a manifestation of a fundamental political maturity is the one currently being discussed with a view to abolishing the very short deadline provided for by Article 86 on the exercise of prosecuting against members of the government. I would remind you that there was a broad consensus in the Proposing House on this matter, saying that it does not mean that it is not a modern democratic and liberal society that members of the government - Prime Minister, Ministers and State Secretarys - have a different criminal treatment than the rest of the citizens. Towards criminal law is all equal, without any discrimination. Therefore, the Constitution, the highest law of a State, cannot provide for any such discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that, in order to return to the political life of the country, the credibility, for Greek citizens to believe again in politicians, should be distinguished from the consistency of words and works. I would remind the House, therefore, that the abolition of this short-term depreciation deadline was the first to be introduced by Mr Mitsotakis to the proposed Parliament in 2006 as a new MEP at that time. Of course, this initiative has come to an end because it has not been supported by a sufficient number of Members. What the Revision Committee had to deal with at its meetings was the possibility that the abolition of this amortisation deadline would actually allow the members of the government to remain committed and hostage to a situation, particularly in cases where a political conflict is also undermining. My opinion is that we now have political maturity for such a change, but the joint legislature also retains the ability to regulate these issues in such a way as to restore the desired balance. Ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional review is not a field of impression or an impression arena. And at this point I am making a sad reference to yesterday's, unprecedented parliamentary time, objection of unconstitutionality raised by SYRIZA, which, of course, was rejected as unfounded. As a new Member, I prefer to remain a follower of the excellent work done in committee and congratulate all the rapporteurs of the parties and, of course, Mr Stylianides and Mr Javarra for the high level and quality of the work they have done. I believe, however, once again, as a new Member, that we have had the opportunity to modernise the country's Charter by making a broad constitutional reform and, unfortunately, we have thrown it to a large extent. It's no use maintaining old structures. What the country needs is a brave constitutional review that creates a modern model of effective democracy and frees the country's creative forces. It is more necessary than ever to relaunch our culture, to ensure the country's development prospects and the abolition of anachronistic institutions of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u459	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kamines, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u460	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone shapes their public attitudes according to and with the experience it has gained from participation in public life. So having served my city for many years from the mayor's honorary position, I would like to bring you my experience, as well as many other former colleagues from the criminalisation of political life. Each mayor is invited daily to make decisions that affect interests, interests sometimes established and powerful. In the case of a major city, in fact, the object of its decision may be appreciated in some tens of millions of euros. That is why we see the mayor haunting the courts for many years after the end of their term of office. I can assure you that this is the vast majority of cases for mayors who have done their duty honestly and conscientiously, for officials who have not been able to submit to the pressures of interests and have done so, knowing that they were not covered by any immunity, by any privilege. But, ladies and gentlemen, is the term 'private privilege' correct, which has prevailed in the field of parliamentary immunity and the criminal responsibility of the ministers? I believe that it is a term which can lead to misunderstandings because it leaves the impression that it introduces inequality between ordinary citizens on the one hand and Members and Ministers on the other. This is not true, because the sizes we compare are by definition unlike. So the principle of equality is not applied here. And it does not apply, because the so-called privilege is not intended to protect the Member or the Minister as a person, as a private person, but to the function he performs. It is an institutional guarantee, which aims to ensure that the Minister or the Member of Parliament performs his duties solely in the public interest, that is to say, free from the fear that he can once be criminally prosecuted because of political feasibility or personal retaliation for acts that he has committed as a public official, not of course, for offences he has committed as a private person. It is true that public opinion has developed a justified disapproval of this special scheme, but for different reasons. In the case of Members, it was reasonable that parliamentary immunity had been abused, that is, that it had protected Members from the criminal prosecution for acts which have nothing to do with their parliamentary duties. It was so intense that the political class, on the initiative and responsibility of the PASOK, responded by establishing the procedure laid down in Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The distinction between acts which are closely linked to the exercise of the parliamentary duties and those for which immunity is to be granted and those which are not connected on the other hand actually today adopted by the New Democracy and by the SYRIZA. We, as a Change Movement, have tabled a radical proposal which goes even further than the reversal of the procedure, so that the Member of Parliament does not enjoy immunity by definition, so that it may be up to Parliament to lift it. We propose that there should be no immunity first of all, but that the Member himself should ask Parliament to bear the burden of proving that his persecution is politically motivated and, if he is convinced of Parliament, that immunity should be activated then alone. The current system has the defect that no one bears personal responsibility to provoke the waiver of immunity and because responsibility is spread to everyone, collective solidarity ultimately prevails, because no one wants to be the bad guy. In our proposal, we now oblige the Member to take the initiative himself and the responsibility not to hide behind the misguided solidarity of his colleagues. We send out the message that the House is not a closed guild that protects its own members. With regard to the criminal responsibility of the ministers, we must look elsewhere at the main cause of the popular reaction, particularly to fatigue, which has caused public opinion by the constant criminalisation of political life, which, in the end, means that ordinary citizens are completely confused. They hear signs and monsters of all kinds of scandals, but eventually they find that, under all of this, political parties are simply seeking to destroy their political opponents morally and politically. Here, in other words, there is no such issue of favourable treatment for the Minister, because, as has already happened on several occasions, the Minister can also be in a more unfavourable position than the citizen, due to a change in the parliamentary majority. What, above all, has annoyed the Greek people is the manipulation of the award of criminal justice for political purposes. The only issue that raises a suspicion of unequal treatment is the short-lived, but it has been demonstrated by the evolution of political life, the amortization of Article 3. However, this cannot lead us to the complete abolition of the extinction deadline, because this constitutes an unconditional surrender to constitutional populism, because for every offence, which is generally simply to be entered into with the exercise of ministerial duties, that is to say, even on the occasion of criminal offences, the former Minister will live for twenty years with the axe of criminal prosecution hanging above his head. As to the offences in the exercise of duties, the ax will be held by the House. As far as crimes are concerned, we shall have the public prosecutors' authority with a similar degree of discretion. If that's not the criminalization of political life, then what is it? Ladies and gentlemen, do we realize the price of this populism? Should we not learn to ask ourselves which Minister will be found to put his signature on a politically controversial decision? Are we ready to see ministers bring the House's conventions and individual administrative acts in order to put their blame on them? Because that will be the price of constitutional populism. Ladies and gentlemen, as mayor, I have signed countless administrative acts, for which I might be able to find criminally accountable by 2039 - I see that you are, unfortunately, laughing, but that is what it is - to have the fate of the mayors, who have spoken to you at the outset, those who haunt the rooms of the criminal courts. Let us not afford the same fate to the ministers. It is the duty of the joint legislator to intervene, in order to set a deadline for expropriation, to be longer than the one laid down in the Constitution, but clearly, shorter than the twenty-year period for some felony. For the record, however, we must stress something about Article 86 of the Constitution. Unfortunately, there is a broad view that the 2001 Review was a product of co-responsibility between the New Democracy and PASOK in order to cover each other's sins. However, with the 2001 Review, the regulation was made by almost all sides in almost all aspects of the stricter. Andreas Loverdes has mentioned this in detail as the rapporteur for our parliamentary group. Let's go to Article 54. We have, from the outset, supported four basic stables: the right to vote for those on the electoral lists, namely in the polls, the vote being equivalent to that of the other voters, the right to at least vote and to adopt a system of electoral districts abroad or part of the roll-call vote. It is positive, on behalf of the government, to seek consensus. However, this consensus cannot be sought at any price. It must be said here that, with the proposal of the parliamentary majority, we are intervening in the unrevised article 51 through Rule 54 and, indeed, introducing a provision which is too, unduly detailed for a constitutional text. On the contrary, we have proposed a simple wording: 'Law lays down restrictions on the exercise of the electoral right by voters outside the territory, in particular in view of the ties they maintain with the country'. The other articles will be dealt with quite briefly. The simple proportional electoral system, whenever applied in the country, has had disastrous results. Greece does not have the luxury to remain, even for a short time, without central government, because under the government there are no strong administrative structures capable of ensuring the continuity of the administration for those periods during which a government crisis occurs, which often occurs in multi-party governments. This is, of course, largely the case for the permanent introduction of a mere actuarial. After all, our Constitution provides for strict deadlines for forming a government. It does not provide time for substantial consultations, a prerequisite for a substantial agreement on a government programme. According to paragraph 2 of Article 37 of the Constitution, where the process of investigative orders is regulated, within about ten days a government has to be formed. How can you get time to build a government co-operation program? I am firmly opposed, ladies and gentlemen, to the introduction of restrictions on parliamentary terminology. We will not combat either the client system or the family rule. We are not allowed to take the road to those who, on the pretext, consider the electorate capable of electing them over time. On the contrary, we need to open up the game wide, so that we can give others the opportunity to fight, guaranteeing them equal opportunities, if we want to open up the political system to young people, see what needs to be done, for example, with the system of highlighting the candidates of the party or with the cross of preference or even with the change of the electoral system, for example by introducing smaller electoral regions. That's more and more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u461	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Syriza has the floor now and Mrs. Syriza immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u462	Ladies and gentlemen, the special 'departmental responsibility' rule is a constitutional provision, which has been in Greek Constitutions since 1844 and has maintained approximately the same form until 2001. But why do we need a special 'duty of ministers' regulation? Why, then, all modern Western states have similar provisions? Would criminal politicians have the imprisonment or otherwise, would any politician take the slightest decision, fearing that he would be persecuted as a criminal for nothing, even for his most insignificant decision? The special 'departmental responsibility' rule prevents, to some extent, the possible legalisation of political life. The Constitution entrusts the law with "demand of Ministers" details. Today, the relevant law is Law No.3126/2003, which reiterates the distinction between, on the one hand, offences committed in the performance of the duties of the Minister and, on the other hand, within the jurisdiction of the House and the Special Court and, on the other hand, for which we are discussing today in the light of the Constitutional Review and on the other, offences which have not been committed in the performance of the duty of the Minister and which are the responsibility of the common justice, namely criminal courts where each of us can be referred. Joint conviction of SYRIZA Members and Members, as well as of the former Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, is that the very term "in the exercise of duties" needs further clarification, which is why we consider it necessary to introduce an interpretative statement. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the New Democracy, it appears that the current President of the Court of Auditors, John Sarmas, who in his article on August 5, 2019, presents it in the Minutes - just makes an interpretation of what it means "in the performance of the Minister's duties". [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Elisabeth (Bette) Scoofa, presents for the minutes the above article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Sarmas was chosen following a unanimous decision of the current Ministerial Council and a recommendation by the current Minister of Justice. The point is, you're not even listening to Mr. Sarma. With the 2001 ‘Consensual Review’, the 1975 Constitution's 'departmental responsibility' regulation was made with considerable stricter points of view, allowing, however, the short limitations and the tooling of the Constitution's provisions, the limitation of cases which shocked public opinion. A characteristic example of the affairs of Vatopedi and structured bonds in the period 2007-2009, where the then parliamentary majority of the New Democracy did not, of course, want to prosecute themselves and evaluate criminal evidence, which justice was referred before the House and involved officials of the then government. The parliament closed early in the middle of general popular outcry. However, the conditions for the limitation of offences, which justice had identified, were artificially closed down and developed. So what does SYRIZA suggest? First of all, it needs to be clarified that any offences committed by the members of the government, which have been committed in an obvious expansion, away from the exercise of their duties, are tried by the criminal courts in our country and are not treated in a particular way, for example, if a minister is struggling with restaurant bushes and cross-crops. The current paragraph 1 of Article 86 of our Constitution reads as follows: 'Only Parliament has the power to prosecute those who have been or have been members of the government or of the State Secretary for Criminal offences which have been committed in the performance of their duties'. This expression "in the exercise of their duties" can be interpreted in two ways: It can be interpreted very closely, that is, by the law of "responsibility of Ministers" and not by the Criminal Code, the offences of the members of the Government and of the State Secretarys, which have been committed within the framework of their duties and are relevant to their duties, for example, a public project decision, which clearly favours a particular construction company. Also, this term can be interpreted very widely, namely that the offences, which have simply coincided with the period of duty of the ministers and have some causal link with the exercise of these duties, such as, for example, when a minister leads too quickly to the Maximos Mansion to meet the Prime Minister, but violates all the bright signals in his course. Does that remind you of something? Even more serious, when the Minister intervenes, without any personal benefit, in favour of his friend a big businessman to a Minister of another portfolio, indicating and achieving the adoption of legislation which is favourable to his friend, concealing the evidence which sets out the specific treatment of the operator and in particular by means of legislation. Things are getting worse if, in the previous example, the first Minister receives financial support, i.e. bribes, as we appear to have in the case of 'NOVARTIS'. If the second very wide interpretation, without the introduction of the interpretative statement into our Constitution, is chosen, all of the offences that have, at least, a seeming link to the duties of the perpetrator of the Minister or State Secretary, will benefit from the special treatment under the law'since there is no responsibility'. On the contrary, with the interpretative provision proposed by us SYRIZA's MPs and MEPs, we are dissociating the offences which have an externally apparent relevance to the exercise of these duties. SYRIZA therefore proposes to vote for an interpretative statement, which reads as follows: In the true sense of this article, the offences referred to in paragraph 1, which are dealt with and judged under the special law'substantially responsible', do not include those committed simply in the exercise of ministerial duties. With the help of this interpretative tool, it is limited the scope to work out the provisions of our Constitution and defines a specific way of approximateing the rules on the responsibility of the rulers, excluding interpretative structures forever and closing loopholes which some in the future may think of opening up. Ladies and gentlemen, because of the prevalence of your party, the New Democracy, most of the proposals of the previous parliament, were not received, perhaps because of some sense of comfort and - why not? - arrogance enjoyed by your parliamentary group, which has the ability to vote alone on the provisions it wishes. Do not, however, get carried away from this unfounded convenience, because SYRIZA's proposal is wise and measured, as it will work beneficially both in distinguishing what assumptions can be perceived as offences of common criminal law and what must be judged by the provisions 'nominal responsibility'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u463	Ladies and gentlemen, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u464	It is also very important that the confidence of Greek citizens be strengthened again and again in the institution of Parliament. Nor should we forget that we are legislating precisely for the Greek people and not for us MPs and ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u465	Me too, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u466	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u467	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u468	Madam President, we have waited for Rule 54(4) all day so that the representatives of the parties can make a short speech, two or three minutes, to say our final position, because we have been debating this morning without knowing what the provision proposed by the New Democracy is. We have not been able to have the order yet. Therefore, the Bureau must have in mind that all the general rapporteurs are looking for tomorrow, at some point we will have the provision in our hands, if we have it, to take our two-minute time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u469	You'll have it and take your two-minute tomorrow. And if you wanted it today, I wouldn't give it to you. Mrs Fotiou has the floor, and immediately after Mrs Auger.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u470	Ladies and gentlemen, as long as the debate on the Constitutional Review is finalised, I think the great ideological differences on the right and the left appear in the Chamber. In addition, the management methods, which the parliamentary majority is doing on the Constitution, are shown. The New Democracy accuses SYRIZA of what it disagrees with him for ideology, while she appears to be ideologicized and, obviously, ideologies. You know that's false. Your ideological neutrality covers the extreme neoliberalism, which governs every legislative proposal and practice. I think that on two points our abyssing ideological differences are emerging. The first is your insistence on revising Article 16, which has not been revised and which you are constantly referring to. The second is to refuse to constitutionalize social and labour rights. We, of course, will, as you know, proudly defend the exclusive public character of higher education, because the people are particularly sensitive to this issue, because the education of their children was the only way out of the walls that the post-National State had uprooted to the social majority. Here your rapporteur has clearly revealed the reasons you wanted to have the revision of Article 16, explaining to us the state's evasive profits from the absence of private universities. Because private universities do not want them to form young people, but to bring money to the state corps. Higher education is always viewed as a large, profitable market in education products. That's why Mr. Mitsotakis was telling students, clients. You say that you do not want young people to leave abroad, at the same time as you reduce the invaders by abolishing thirty-seven departments and a School of Law of Patras, and the barrier you want to put with the "twelfth" in Pan-Hellenics. Try to enter business interests in the field of education in every way, because you are equating the professional rights of college graduates with universities. Surgery, indeed, is this bypass of Article 16, which has not been revised and which you are doing, trying otherwise to abolish it. Four days now I have 30 Members of the New Democracy, each to repeat, almost in the same way, the same story about the abolition of the publicity of universities in favour of private universities. And I wonder: Since this story has expired - Article 16 is not revised - why are you doing so? I have now concluded that you are doing this because it is a propaganda, which you want to do for the equation of the dubious quality colleges with public universities. That's what you're trying to send customers to college every day. Your ideological commitment to neoliberalism is also evidenced by the absolute refusal that we have encountered to shield a series of working and social rights at Constitutional level. We did not expect anything other than the government, which was just elected, to bring what the IMF had brought us and had imposed on you as a law. We believe that the constitutional protection of these rights is absolutely essential, after what has happened in the country over the last ten years. Because it is different to partially limit a right, because of budgetary constraints and else to completely remove the right that the Constitution protects. That is why we have proposed equal pay for equal work, regardless of age, for the introduction of the supremacy of favourable sectoral labour contracts with regard to the operators, which you abolished, because that is the development model you have as a vision. We have proposed the introduction of the minimum wage by collective bargaining between employers and workers. We have proposed in the Constitution that the state guarantees a decent standard of living for citizens through universal services and benefits, as well as a public, redistributive and rewarding social security system. You turned it down. This is where our great ideological gap is. But you are going to an unauthorized step further. You use the Constitution for voting reasons, as if it were a law passed by the House. You do so with the minimum guaranteed income and with the article on the vote of the payees. You are trying to constitutionalise the minimum guaranteed income, a system to combat extreme poverty, which we have introduced - the CRL is extremely popular, because it saved seven hundred thousands of our fellow people since 2017 and after the extreme poverty that you left them - with three pillars, which we applied for both the allowance and the services, but also for the 10% that we put back in work. So we've done everything you say. And today that the seven hundred thousand have been reduced to 50 thousand, you want to put it in the Constitution - originalising, as there is nowhere in the world - instead of guaranteeing a decent standard of living for citizens with a set of services and benefits for all categories of the population, family, marriage, maternity, children, young people, the elderly, people with disabilities and the most. You laugh, the Constitution when you say that a decent level of living will be achieved through a minimum guaranteed income system, that is, with an allowance of EUR 213 per month and with the rest of the two pillars. You therefore want to end with the state's obligations towards Greek citizens and, above all, to the weak and medium-sized strata, with a programme of mere extreme poverty. You are also using the Constitution for voting reasons - as if it were a law passed by the House - on the issue of the vote on the results. Taking advantage of the timing, you are exhaustive in details, while we, only emphasise two things: to have a real bond with the country and to have the citizens have their own self-representation. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u471	I'm sorry, Comrade. The other Members will be able to speak, because we are closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u472	Finally, the Revision of the Constitution has also highlighted a dangerous practice, the devaluation of institutions in the revision of Article 32 for the election of the President of the Republic. I think it will be recorded in the history of the country as the "big trick" which the New Democracy has made as opposition to, to deceive the SYRIZA when it had the parliamentary majority. And he started the Review with a full consciousness of the poaching. You voted in favour of SYRIZA's proposal for the election of the President of the Republic, while you disagreed with it radically only to gather the votes needed to revise the order. And today, in this House that you have a majority of Members, you are proposing a provision that moves in the very opposite spirit and enjoys the institution of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u473	Madam Colleague, please. A colleague will be staying without talking, and it is a pity, because he's been waiting in here this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u474	I'm stopping, Madam President. Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u475	Mrs Augiris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u476	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the top parliamentary process of the Revision of the Constitution, the fourth in turn after the Reform of the Constitution, is on its way towards the end. I would also like to say in my turn, although the time is long ago and almost empty the benches, that it is an excellent honour for a new Member of Parliament, a Member of the European Parliament, to participate in this process. I think we'll have a chance again to watch and participate in it. This is a process initiated by a different parliamentary majority and correlations, with different objectives and perspectives, and which, today, is completed by another majority, unfortunately without the anticipated results expected and expected by the Greek people. I would like us to remember the words of the then President of the proposed Commission - and I would like to thank the President of the current Commission, Mr Stylianides, for the courage to be present at this whole process and to be at the end of the day - the Professor of the Law School of Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Nikos Paratroopoulou, who said from the Step of plenary - had given the clear signal of the intentions of the SYRIZA government - the following: 'A constitutional reform, which leads to certain progress being made both in the functionality of democracy, as well as in the direction of upgrading individual rights and not a white cheque to the government in order to be able to do what it wants, by surprise and without justifying voting'. SYRIZA's proposal expressed an attitude of sincerity and responsibility. Mostly, however, it does not alter the nature of the Constitution. He corrects it, improves it and promotes it. These are then from the nominated parliament. Today, even this supreme process of changing the charter of the state, has unfortunately been exploited by the New Democracy. And this, in order to manipulate the institutions, in particular the way in which they are elected, I dare say, in essence, the President of the Republic, for the purpose of maintaining political prerogatives and immunities, which are causing public opinion about the repatriation and party interests in the matter of the votes of the deceased Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have rejected the proposals of the then parliamentary majority, of the SYRIZA, in the proposing parliament, without any interest in whether their content is useful for the country and its history. You have even rejected those who have received a super-party reception, for example the adoption of the principle of leniency, which would facilitate both administration and justice, simple analogue, popular referendums, constructive vote of distrust, neutral religion of the state, individual and social rights, as well as others. And that's because you even worked the Constitution. The negative fingerprints of your choices and actions will have an impact in the immediate future on the quality of the culture, on the functioning of the institutions, on the social rule of law, on the involvement of citizens in decision-making. You have had an opportunity to show that you have a political will to clash with corruption to put an end to immunity by strengthening the penal control of political persons. However, you have again chosen the cover-up and impunity for scandals that led the country to bankruptcy. You still want the ministers above the laws and justice. Or is bribery and misagent the close duties of a minister? Does it require privileged treatment? You called on Alexis Tsipras, the Chief of Staff, for the letter he sent to the President of the Commission, calling for the interpretative declaration of Article 86 on the criminal liability of the ministers. You are well aware that a new provision is not added, nor an existing one is amended, simply a vague regulatory field is cleared up. The Coupling, with obvious panic against the possibility that Justice can continue its work, claims that the interpretative declaration under Article 86 of the Constitution cannot have retroactive force as a new, allegedly stricter criminal law. This position you know is a real fraud. He attempts to exploit the lack of special knowledge of MPs, who are not legal, as his dear colleague Mr Lappas would have said. It is understandable that the ban on regression only relates to regulations relating to a new law. The interpretative statement is not a new arrangement, much more so than when the imported interpretation is not proportional. If it were, one could say that a regulation extends to an additional field, and so it brings something new, and that is not what this is all about. The interpretative statement proposes a restrictive interpretation of the concept of 'in the performance' which already exists. Nothing new, therefore, to raise a matter of retrospectiveness. If there is no clarification of the existing rules under Article 86 in order to prosecute the ministers who are being bribed under the common legislation and to be tried by the natural judge, such as all citizens, those of the NOVARTIS scandals, sea-loving, armaments and others that are open, they will be recorded. What the interpretative statement says is that bribery should not be deleted. Isn't that what you're interested in? Is justice in vain? The interpretative statement was voted for by a hundred seventy - five MPs in the previous parliament, the proposing one, and would therefore require the current eighty - eighty - votes. But it is obvious that your side is intrepid to cover up. After all, the majority MPs and the immunity of bankers and the amputation of all economic scandals at the expense of the Greek people were voted on days ago. So no one can expect anything different or better. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Constitution, neither populism nor communist manipulation by fraudulent means does exist. Anything related to the substance of democracy, the deepening of the culture, our worthy code, the institutional guarantees of independence and accountability, is probably annoying you. Avoid and reject. You are bypassing justice, you are violating the distinction of powers, you are hitting the master of legislative power. With your refusal to vote on the interpretative declaration of Article 86, you maintain and encourage the pathogens of the political system. Without pretexts and reservations, you do not safeguard the lost price of the political world. A constant social demand is being sedated. I am sure, however, that justice will not follow you on this path of covertness. Even without the adoption of the interpretative declaration, it will choose the correct interpretation of Article 86 from the outset and give a fair trial to bribes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u477	And I, my fellow Member, for the time being. Mr Balafas has the floor and Mrs Kafantaris will be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u478	Ladies and gentlemen, with interest in following the overall debate within and outside the House on the Revision of the Constitution, but also in contact with the citizens lately I can see that there is a majority request. On the issues that are a common place to find the convergences and, of course, on the issues that are specific to emerge from the different approaches, ideologies and practices. That is exactly what I will try to show in my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 4 of the Constitution begins with the words: "The Greeks are equal before the law". I am trying to understand whether there is a politician, a party, an ideology that claims that we, politicians, are something different from the others, that the parties have rights that are not recognised to the ordinary people, that a Minister, a MP, is legitimate to enjoy the special privilege, so let me say that, if he was not a minister or a Member, he should be judged by justice. Allow me to say that such views of immunity from civil servants in our country may lead to a population share in extreme terms. Fortunately, these concepts are not represented by any party in this House. We cannot, however, ignore the fact that a few months ago the political expressions of neo-naziism, post-fascism, were present in this Chamber and poisoned society with anti-democratic perceptions, but they were also working bad practices, which we all now burn. We have a responsibility, therefore, to eliminate every shadow of the country's political staff, much more when the risk of such practices has already emerged. Of course, our party rapporteur, Mr Katrugalos, rightly pointed this out, but Mr Javarras, also mentioned it, that we are here in the field of intensity of two constitutional principles and requirements. On the one hand, we have the principle of equality, of equality in general, which imposes similar treatment on everyone, and on the other hand we have the need to guarantee an institutional guarantee both with regard to Members and with regard to ministers, so that they can carry out their duties without external pressures of a blackmail sometimes. It is clear that the institutional guarantee of the necessary protection must be served by the civil servants in the performance of their duties. That is what we agree on. However, only those who are closely linked to the functioning of civil servants must be protected. Only these must be treated differently. Our proposal, with regard to Article 86, for the abolition of the extinction deadline, but also for the interpretation declaration, which must also have retroactive effect, as is the case with the courts, only provides for ministerial offences, which are closely linked to the exercise of the minister's function, to fall within the scope of this article. For all the rest, it is only natural that justice should have competence and justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I must note that I am negatively surprised that the representatives of the government majority are rejected by this interpretative statement, which the recent developments have made absolutely necessary. In addition, the majority rapporteur spoke of an unnecessary interpretative statement. She didn't say she was wrong or anything. All right, let's make a concession, let's make it a little bit more than he thinks necessary, since he's not wrong and in his opinion. Unless there are other reasons. We will all be judged by our decisions and practices. But no one should be covered - and even constitutionally - for those who do not fall within their narrow duties. I would like to make it clear that this is a central point which will define - and it is natural - our overall attitude. We will not accept covering under the carpet pathogens and practices that undermine democracy, cause the public to feel legal and cultivate in society concepts that there is a political aristocracy, which supports and impropers the people. Finally, I want to make a statement. The proposals of the New Democracy for Constitutional Review are behind and the proposals that the same party had tabled in 2014. I would remind you that, at that time, he argued, among other things, clearly: firstly, the need for proportionality of the electoral system and for the referendum on a legislative popular initiative. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, as much as the Head of the New Democracy, your President, Mr Mitsotakis, is trying to show up as a modern-right political leader, in practice, proves that he is, from a political point of view, a political retreat that moves between the right-wing and the systemic right. On central, political issues arise and behaves from the extreme right-wing component of his party. It is precisely this, in our view, that it also highlights the need to convene all the democratic, all the progressive forces in our country, without discrimination, without leadership for the good of our country, for the good of society. As for the Revision of the Constitution, if it eventually moves in a conservative direction, as the New Democracy seeks, it will be a setback for the place. The individual political differences, much more the personal needs of some, cannot dominate the general good. Here we are all judging, as much as there is a veil of silence from the systemic media, society will learn and understand who each one of us is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u479	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u480	Ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional revisions certainly represent an important milestone for the Parliamentary Republic. Surely most of the time they try to mark a return to normality, and they certainly contribute to the evolution of the culture through the synthesis of both ideological and scientific as well as political and synagogues, which, unfortunately, is not the case in this review, where its character reflects the majority of the New Democracy's idealism, narrating the whole process and making it brutal. I shall stand by the text, namely a part which, although last in the process, in my opinion, is not only irrelevant, but runs the whole body of the revision, the proportionality of the electoral system, as well as one of its main pillars, the vote of the dismissals. In the context of the above for the vote of the demigrants, because we are in favour of the shocks, SYRIZA has re-established its proposal, which provides for a voting facility for all emigrants and, furthermore, the right to elect their own representatives. On the contrary, this does not appear in the proposal of the New Democracy, where the problems are distinct and many, where a constitutional restriction is not provided for in the revision of the real link with the country. There is no procedure for updating the special electoral lists abroad, but a one-off procedure, which does not guarantee the existence of a genuine link for the future, does not provide for a special body, guarantees and a procedure for checking and certifying electoral rights abroad, thus making the whole process transparent and vulnerable. It includes broad authorisations to the Minister of the Interior to regulate key issues such as the process of listing and the way the elector is certified, thus bypassing the requirement of the Constitution, to have two-thirds of this House approved. On the contrary, with the proposal put forward by SYRIZA, the majority proposal does not provide for separate representation of foreign voters with their own MPs, not recognising them the right to vote. Why? Our proposal is much more favourable and, in particular, does not interfere with the limits of the state - citizenship of the electorate, absence of a cap on the electoral lists - and does not call into question national unity. Finally, before I go to the main part of my position on the proportional electoral system, I would like to share a thought with you, that it would be a shame, since it would be time for Greek voters abroad and all parties agree that this should be done in the wrong way and serve as a means of erroneous electoral system, an already problematic electoral system, whose weaknesses I shall analyse below. In organising a democratic state, the notion of the electoral system is the main way of organising and exercising political power. Since people's will and sovereignty are the basis of the constitution, the electoral system must act on the basis of them. There are three categories of electoral systems: the majority, proportional and mixed. Fourteen different variants of the above systems have been applied in Greece. In the forty-five years of post-population seven different electoral systems were implemented, and the first six of them were based on the structure of the enhanced analogy of 1958. Of course, all these laws did not provide for the strengthening of proportionality, but for strengthening the first party, usually putting an obstacle to the rest. In our country, therefore, the electoral system was unfair and inequality was debatable for smaller parties. Since the Migration to date, with six different systems, the elections have been held. Although post-population was the long period of democratic political stability in the country, which is certainly linked to current electoral laws, we have not been spared in bankruptcy as well. However, the period of crisis and bankruptcy have brought everything down. They brought to the fore the need for cooperation, creating a new culture. Our political system in conditions of simple analogy requires a surplus of political and cultural maturity for substantial shocks, for partnerships, limiting the demagogic rhetoric of smaller and larger parties. From an institutional point of view, the most anticipated protagonist of the results of the recent elections, as well as the previous and previous elections, was undoubtedly the electoral system. In this respect, this is not a mere influence of electoral will, as is the case with other electoral systems. Such an electoral system leads to a multiple distortion of the election result, which is characterised, in fact, by institutional absurdity, at the same time is deeply undemocratic and manifestly unconstitutional. Anti-democratic in individual parties, due to current political data. I am referring to the election premium of the first party, which in the current version is fifty seats and unfavourable treatment of coalitions and is much more problematic than the original version, forty seats with the previous Scandalides law, which could also be taken by parties coalitions. This counter-democracy lies in the violation of the principle of equality of vote on the first party, as the election gift of the fifty seats is awarded without any criterion, both in terms of the percentage and in terms of the difference of the first and second parties. Anti-constitutional, as judged by a detailed and substantiated opinion by Aristo-Venesiou as President of the Scientific Council of the Parliament, similar to the position of Nikos Alvizatou, invoking the relevant case-law of the court, according to which it is not possible in a democratic regime for the judiciary to have the power to control on which terms and conditions may cooperate parties if they have joint programmes and if their cooperation is reasonable or appropriate. These issues are political and together with others they are taken into account by the people, the only person responsible under the first Article of the Constitution. However, at this point, the system of control of constitutionality in our country, as we know, suffers, because we do not have preventive control by a constitutional court, but only after elections by the court. On the contrary, with the permanent proportional electoral system, the simple proportional system, there would be no possibility of overturning the principle of parity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. It is constitutionally guaranteed in several European constitutions, primarily in Portuguese, and the evolution of the culture in these states is a full proof that the rulership, for which New Democracy is so cut, is not dependent on tricks that shape the result, but on the culture of the political system itself. It is clear that the New Democracy's political argument in favour of the vote is against this brutal insult of the equivalent of vote, since it will only be one vote to separate the first from the second party and give the fifty seats. Also, the complete violation of the principle of equality of vote extends to certain constituencies, especially in the quadruples. So the question arises again: why will this political and constitutionally extremely problematic electoral system not change? It is precisely because it is the government's intention to put an election system to the vote that will give a significant bonus of seats in the first party. This, of course, relates mainly to the New Democracy, which is now a government, because this has voted as it stands and it has benefited privilegedly and is still benefiting from it. It would not be an exaggeration to say that the New Democracy was literally rescued as a party in the past. This is the way to change one of the bad electoral laws that the country has known, especially since the political data changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u481	Comrade, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u482	I shall close, Madam President, and thank you very much for one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u483	It's about two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u484	The electoral system is not a matter of political tactics, it is occasionally subjugated to the prospect of conquering or maintaining power. The parties must deal with this issue with confidence, but also with political intelligence, so that they can govern the country with institutional honesty and in a way that promotes programming cooperation, however difficult it may be.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u485	Please, my colleague. You went in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u486	This is an honest solution, a new culture of collective shaping proposals, which highlight partnerships and consensus between parties with honesty, rather than artificial parties with the sole aim of government power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u487	I thank you too, but you should know that at the moment with this time - not just you and the other Members - you left one of your colleagues - and not just one - out of today's procedure. Mr Kavadas has the floor and we are closing the procedure with Mr Kavvada, as has been decided by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u488	Madam President, I too have time to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u489	I can't do any different, unfortunately. It's a decision that's been made. If Mr. Kavadas is finished in five minutes and he gives you the next five minutes, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u490	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the process of Revision of the Constitution is a top democratic process and not an exercise of party or micro-political purposes. Unfortunately, the majority of the previous House showed a short-sighted logic and did not see the process of Constitutional Review as an opportunity to open a window in the future. Through the deepening of the democratic institutions, the strengthening of the credibility of the political system, the exemption from harassment and burdens which prevent the country from moving forward, idealism has prevailed, and Article 16 has not been revised, so that our country is one of the few countries which forbids the operation of non-state universities. Some do not see tomorrow, but they do not see what is happening today either. Because if they were to see, they would realize what is happening in Cyprus, which has become an international centre of university education in the wider Mediterranean region, with multiple benefits for its economy. The establishment of non-state universities would therefore benefit the Greek economy, as well as students, who would not leave abroad. Also, Greece would become a pole of attraction for students from all over the world. The Constitutional Review, therefore, is of an inappropriate and limited nature. The review process, ladies and gentlemen, is subject to rules. The top of these rules is the creation of a climate of consensus, and the Government of New Democracy gave substantial examples of writing in this direction. The intention to create a climate of consensus was clearly reflected in the Prime Minister's initiative to give the migrant Greeks the right to vote, which is linked to the revision of Article 54. Through a synthetic process and mutual retreats, the whole bill was formed, with the aim of gaining broad support and consent from all the political forces in Parliament. With the right to vote and to the Greeks abroad, Greece grows, enters a new era. The Parliament will now express the nation as a whole in the most substantial way. There was a cross-party agreement, which provides that Greeks will have the right to vote less than thirty-five years from home, provided that two years have elapsed in Greece during this period. The main thing is that the principle of the equal vote of Greeks abroad, which will be measured in the final result, and also the right to exercise the electoral right in the local embassies and consulates of Greece, is laid down. It is particularly important that this provision now falls within the constitutional charter. It is particularly important, too, that the consensus be reached on the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic since elections is held. The constitutionalisation of minimum guaranteed income, which incorporates the principle of a social market economy in the Constitution, which has, as a condition in recent years and in the fundamental European Treaties, been taken into account in the Constitution of the Hellenic Republic. I would like to refer to SYRIZA's proposal that simple analogue, which is not accepted by a large majority of citizens, should be introduced in constitutional terms and conflict with reality itself. Suffice to see the problems facing the municipalities and regions, where the composition of the councils and municipal authorities has emerged through the system of mere proportionality, problems which exist, despite the institutional intervention of the Government of New Democracy, which largely facilitates the concept of governance and the functioning of the municipalities. I spoke before about the need to strengthen the credibility of the political world and the relationship of trust with the citizens, which is essential for the functioning of our institutions and democratic culture. The two revised articles, Article 62 and Article 86, move in this direction. Rule 62 rationalised the framework for the immunity of Members. The immunity of the Member is an institutional guarantee for the performance of his duties only in terms of political activity. This is now clearly defined and without broad interpretations in Article 62. In no case can parliamentary immunity extend to fields which have nothing to do with the parliamentary activity of the Member. From now on, the House, if there is a request from a public prosecutor for a Member's offence, which is not linked to the performance of its duties or to his political activity, is obliged to waive immunity. Since we ourselves must give practical examples of writing, I would remind you that in the previous parliamentary term I had asked for my immunity to be waived and normally to be tried, following a complaint lodged against me and against other members of the Lefkada Municipal Council on the granting of a canteen licence, on the island's beach. The element of strengthening the credibility of the political world, but also of satisfying the citizens' legitimate feelings, is the proposal to revise Article 86. With the proposal of the New Democracy, which I believe gathers the consent of all the political forces, the deadline for the Second Session is to be abolished, on the basis of which a limitation is made. From now on, the offences of the Ministers come under the rules of limitation applicable to ordinary citizens. The politician cannot have distinct or special treatment, and this must be a message to society. Ladies and gentlemen, the review process may not have the scope and potential that Greek society would like. It, however, recommends a step forward and improvement of the constitutional framework and the functioning of the constitution, a step forward which, even in this limited context, came from dialogue, composition and rationalisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u491	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Thank you for leaving us a little time to give the floor to Mrs Scottra, who waits patiently for so many hours in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u492	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Commission, approaching the end of the top review process of the Constitution today, very important articles, such as the Member's impunity in Article 62, which protects the Member from acts of desirability against him, namely by persecution of third parties, in order to harm him politically and other interests and prevent him from carrying out his duties. Of course the Member is not excluded from the equality rule before the law. Today, our proposal concerns the restriction of parliamentary immunity, with regard to offences outside parliamentary duties and is maintained for those committed in their exercise. The House undertakes to judge realistic and unequivocally the appropriate persecution of the Member. Our proposal does not mean that it does not devaluate parliamentaryism. Instead, it strengthens the credibility of political staff and strengthens the quality of our democratic culture. Also important is Article 86, which deals with the law on the liability of Ministers and which puts an end to a debate many years ago on the different treatment of political persons with regard to the limitation of offences. The reproach that the House is legislating in favour of the Ministers and the New Democracy proposes the abolition of the amortization deadline and, by extension, the forward-looking approach. It is my view that the need to revise this article is necessary both for SYRIZA's proposal and for Mr Tsipras' recent statements, which is why I am not going to stand there, but I am moving forward with my view that the need to revise this article is necessary, because in addition to the rest, it will strengthen public order, the cleansing of public life, transparency and the re-establishment of the confidence of the political system and the politicians. I cannot avoid the temptation to recall that the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, has taken a clear position and initiatives in favour of abolishing this article since 2008. Let me also remind you that at the time the left-wing parties, namely the coalition and the JRC, refused to support its proposal. But the time came and it turned out that Mr Mitsotakis was right, and now I believe that everyone will give an account of the change that is being imposed. Ladies and gentlemen, today's section includes the most important article 54, which deals with the question of the vote of Greeks living abroad. Of course, the democratic right to vote as such is self-evident, since we all know that it is expressly stated in the Constitution. What it is doing is making it easier for them to exercise this right from their homes and to measure it equally, like all Greeks. Tons of ink have been spilled and endless hours have been spent in the public debate, so that there can be a conclusion and a decision on this. Unfortunately, however, the hypocrisy of some, who even get to comedy excuses, are stumbling up and stumbling up, so that the desired decision is not taken. I say'responsible', because for decades the Greek Immigration Organizations have submitted this request and on the one hand the Greek permanent residents of the country are in full agreement with this facility. Ladies and gentlemen, the seasons we have been experiencing and the trials that our country has been experiencing over recent years, I believe that they have made clear to us all the need for the Greek adversity to be united, for the bonds to be strengthened, for the forces and the potential that have been proved throughout the globe, so that the Greeks can contribute as excellent ambassadors to the strong presence of our country in the global events and the upward evolution of its course. Of course this presupposes taking part in the country's politically hypothetical decisions, i.e. rights along with obligations. In order to achieve this, it is a condition to facilitate voting from the place where they are resident. My group, ladies and gentlemen, is aware of this need and of this need for foreign compatriots over time. I recall the effort by the governments of Kostas Karamanlis, Antonis Samaras, and today the clear and decisive attitude of Mr Mitsotakis, who has consistently taken the initiative in his election promises to hold a serious dialogue with all the parties, the organizations of relatives and all the parties involved. In fact, although we believe that Greeks abroad should be allowed to exercise their electoral right, without conditions and conditions, without any discrimination and exceptions, by way of written vote, an effective and secret method used by all the countries, the need arising from Article 51(4) of the Constitution for the approval by two hundred Members of Parliament for the adoption of such a law, has forced the Government to negotiate and compromise in the interests of finding the common component and the maximum consensus. I say in summary - because it is worthwhile - that the debates in the cross-party have resulted in five points, which I shall not mention, for a time economy. I will only say this, which concerns today's debate, that there should be an amendment to Article 54 of the Constitution in order to remove any doubt that the introduction of restrictions on the facilitation of foreign voters is a constitutional solution. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to take the first step, to consult ourselves for the first time on an issue relating to the credibility of the political system towards the Greeks, inside and outside the country. Any other position, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, will mean evasion and hypocrisy. The opinion of some of us in this House is probably not of interest to you, but you should be interested in the opinion of the people who are being watched and who are, on their behalf, all in this Chamber. You know, decisions in sin are understood by everyone, as everyone sees behind words and understands that a possible refusal of you to add Article 54 will come from your fear that the vote of the Greeks abroad will not move in your interest. And why would that come to a conclusion? Because foreign voters are people of work, of creation, of production, of risk, because this shows that they left the confidence of paternity restaurants and left to work. They are Greeks with love for the country, where nostalgia makes it even stronger and possibly this profile does not conform to the culture and philosophy of the Left. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want your decision to lead to such conclusions. On the contrary, I would like to prove that we are responsible for national issues and for the sake of our country and citizens. I therefore call on you all to vote in favour of the addition of Article 54, to justify those who trusted us and to strengthen the links between the Greekism of the earth and the mother of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u493	Thank you too, my colleague. The debate on the revised provisions of the Constitution, which corresponds to the 5th and 9th thematic section of the Constitutional Review Committee, i.e.: inadmissible Members, prosecution against members of the Government, electoral system and election barriers, Articles 62, 86(3), 86 (introduction of an interpretative declaration), 54(1), 54 (introduction of an interpretative declaration) and 56 (institutional declaration) of the Constitution, is hereby terminated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-21-S1-commons.u494	With the consent of the House, the sitting is closed for today, Friday 22 November 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, "time of the Prime Minister" and (b) Parliament's decisions: continuation of the debate on the revised provisions of the Constitution in accordance with Articles 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament 6th and 7th thematic section of the Commission: Articles 96 para. 5, 101A, 101p. 1 and 4, 101 (importation of interpretative statement), 102 para. 2, 112 pp. 4 (repealing paragraph), 113 (repeal), 114(1). 1, 114 pp. 2 (repealing paragraph), 115(1). 1 and 2, 115 pp. 3 (repealing paragraph), 115(1). 4 (repealing paragraph) and 119(1). 1 (repealing paragraph), in accordance with the special agenda.
