ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "I. Proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the Agreement in the form of an exchange of letters concerning the provisional application of the Protocol establishing the fishing opportunities and financial Harmonization of the VAT Code Directive (EU) 2016/1065, III. Incorporation of points 1, 2, 4 and 5 of Article 2 and Articles 4, 4, 6, 7 and 8 of Directive 1164/2016, IV. Adopted by the Commission on 17 December. Regulations (EC) No 2971/2001 and (EC) No 2971/2001.' Apart from the well-known three ministerial amendments, I have been informed that a fourth amendment has been tabled. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 11 April 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u2	The House unanimously agreed. The registration for those colleagues who want to speak will normally be done electronically with the card. The system will be opened, as soon as Mr. Pavlides got to Step and close, as soon as Mr. Veyropoulos came down from Step. Because it is a large bill, I will give all the rapporteurs and speakers a time-to-time tolerance, so that you do not get the time of your dentistry, because you might want to use it for the amendments. So I will show a tolerance to the rapporteurs and speakers. Mr. Paulides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance, because it is really a big bill. The first part of the bill relates to the Settlement of the Asian Infrastructure and Investment Bank Agreement, a Bank which was launched following a Chinese initiative and the BRICS Group, in essence recommending a Belt and Road bank arm for the Silk Road and products from Southeast Asia to Europe. It is an investment bank in which seventy countries are already involved. It is eighteen European countries and twenty other countries that are in the candidacy phase. It is a bank, which in particular for our country, which is a gateway to Europe with the two ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki, which creates the most favourable conditions for connecting infrastructure between Asia and Europe, for regional cooperation, for development synergies and transnational investment. It is very important that the country's presence and with its share capital in this bank, regardless of its size, is very important. The second part of the bill, Articles 8 to 11, relates to the harmonization of the VAT Code. Articles 11 to 22 - I say them soon, because they do not involve matters, which may be of particular concern to Parliament in relation to various conflicts - concern the issues of the Code of Income Tax and the definition and method of taxation of the controlled foreign company. Articles 15 to 18 also apply to implementing measures in Regulation 345/2013 and Articles 19 to 22 of Regulation 346/2013. I am now passing the fourth part of the bill, which I will be dealing with later, because it is the most important one and it concerns the arrangements for cauliflowers. Part Five, Articles 43 to 66 concern matters of procedure of the Law Council of the State, with the provision of an act of the Tripartite Committee of the Legal Council of State and the establishment of the Inspectorate at the central office of the Legal Council, where it will mainly have the task to define quantitative and qualitative objectives of the Legal Council staff units, the monitoring, control and evaluation of the work of the Legal Units and the conduct of an extraordinary and regular inspection of the officials of the Legal Council. Article 45 refers to the public debt interest rate and the calculation of interest. Two important articles concerning local communities and Kalamata and Kozani relate to the granting of public property to the Municipality of Kalamata in the location of Kozani and the Municipality of Kozani in the former Phychoychoyu Camp. Also, very important is Article 48 concerning the continuation for 2019 of HICP discharge for those affected by the catastrophic fires in July 2018. The same discharge will apply this year, as was the case last year. In addition, Article 56 is the ratification of the new Consortium between the Greek State and the shipping community, with the establishment as permanent for the first time of the payment of 10% of the imported dividends by vessels flying Greek or foreign flag. Finally, it is the grant of the Holocaust Museum to build the building in Thessaloniki for the operation of the Holocaust Museum. I have quickly run all the previous articles, because we all understand that Parliament is mainly concerned with the fourth part of the bill, which is the arrangements on haematopoietics. The conscientiousness of the caucasus now operates in a more stringent context, in the direction of expanding communion, avoiding further arbitrariness from now on and at the same time, recognising the problems of the past, but also by recognising the problems of the past, because we are already operating and legislating on a narcotic territory, with certain uncertainties, arbitrary, failures and institutional distortions and shortcomings of the past. The draft was a constructive dialogue and cooperation with the co-legislative ministries and the case law of Greek and European courts was taken into account, all the proposals of the co-legislative ministries as well as the proposals and comments of various bodies. In the consultation that took place in the committee responsible, several proposals were adopted by producer bodies and environmental organisations, such as the proposals and comments of the Ministry of the Environment, which were included in this bill. I'm starting presentation on specific fields. Article 23 defines the definitions of the agialos, the beach, the old hayalos and the port projects. There was the determination of the maximum width of the beach at 50 meters. There was no definition of the minimum threshold, which, on the basis of Article 23, is set at thirty metres, but clearly taking into account the specific geomorphological elements and the local spatial plans for the first time. In addition, local spatial plans must be developed and planned on the basis of the minimum level of thirty metres, but at the same time 30 metres are not a binding factor, it is not a binding number given that the local spatial plan can go beyond this and shape other possibilities. In the amendment to Article 2, the old haystack and the old bank are now owned by public property rather than private property and are not already affected by property rights and existing concessions. Also very important is the fact that it is regulated that in the event of private property interfering between the sanctuary and the public road, there must necessarily be a free passage for unsolved and safe access to the sanctuary from the public road, but always according to urban legislation. In Articles 25, 26 and 27, a secondary committee is set up to define the boundaries of the saint, beach and old hayalus with a view to examining the actions brought against them in the event of their redefinition. Article 28 refers to the maintenance of works and facilities built in the sanctuary by contract between third parties, i.e. private individuals and through partnership with the public, with the EOT, with the General Secretariat of Sports or with the municipalities, with the OTA, on the basis of development laws. Integrated and effective regulation of the maintenance process of existing public spaces protected by Law 2971/2001 and of legal works which have been carried out in excess of a special licence is introduced. We also faced it in public consultation with the committee responsible, the fact that there were works by specific undertakings in the past that had been incorporated into industrial sectors or other sectors, which had been integrated into development laws. They took the necessary approvals, and yet the new legislation could no longer allow the Ministry of Finance to grant the use of the saint. This can now be done on two conditions: first, respect for all the legal requirements, that is, that these projects should be legally operated and, at the same time, there should be all the environmentally approved conditions. In other words, projects which the OTA or any other body could carry out and which were out of the process that the Treasury could grant if they were legalised even today, i.e. if they were carried out, could be carried out under the legal conditions. So they can also be granted in relation to the past. It is therefore a process which, in fact, ends several unfinished institutionalities of the past which, on the one hand, are anti-developmental and, in fact, have led to counter-environmental distortions in a number of productive sectors. Article 29 relates to anti-corrosion works in the cavalry, which are defined as well as to the procedure by which they must be carried out either by the public or by the private person. Furthermore, very important are the arrangements for the urgent work of the saint, where, for the first time, there was no provision in this regard, so that the public cannot easily intervene in projects to improve or directly remedy natural disasters. Moreover, a region which has been declared in an emergency or civil protection situation may very quickly run the procedures necessary to restore any damage. Article 31 concerns the concession or simple use of a jam, namely umbrellas, sunbeds, cantins. It also faces the new investment phenomenon of inflatable marine children's playgrounds, which has so far been an orphan. It now sets out specific arrangements and forecasts for this. At the same time, there will also be the relevant NCA, which will regulate details of the price, because there will now be an objective way of calculating the concession price, as will various other requests relating to the periodicity in the concession, that is, six months or more than six months. At the same time, it will also regulate various other requests from the sectors which have been discussed in the committee. All of this will be determined with the relevant GMD coming. I believe it is important that municipalities are now forced to always have and provide a beach for use by people with an AMEO. Every municipality must now have a beach within its limits, on which there will be free access for the LEADER. At the same time, there will be an obligation for the Ottawas, 10% of the allocated area to be given on the basis of social criteria and to enterprises in the form of a social economy. I think it is a very important innovation, which will in particular help local communities and small collectives. At the same time, it also has a social footprint that is important enough for these small local communities. Article 34, which is the article at issue and we have discussed it several times at the previous meetings of the committee responsible, provides for the possibility of granting the hayote to public or non-governmental bodies for the execution of projects which, by their nature, cannot function as a saint. There are companies that require access to the cavalry so that they can function in their relationship with the sea and the transport of their products. These are, of course, regulated under very specific environmental and other licensing conditions. At the same time, we regulate with regard to the concession scheme what has been built up until 28-7-2011, on the basis of the case-law of the Council of State again on very specific conditions for projects of a dominant development character, national defence and security, project issues and networks of general interest, including RES, projects carried out by the Local Government and which clearly have two conditions: first, environmental licensing and second, the legality of these projects. That is to say, they are projects which precede environmental permission and, secondly, they are projects which, if implemented today, could have all these necessary conditions to enable them to be executed. Just in the past for a thousand reasons, whether bureaucratic or others, the OTAs or the various other bodies did not make the necessary predictions and approvals in this respect. If such projects are such projects, they will be able to be legitimized, in fact they will be granted the use of them by the Ministry of Finance. Hotel and houses are clearly excluded, hotels, swimming pools, villas, camping and all that. The only thing that can be integrated into this, in the concession of use by the Ministry of Finance, concerns only hotel units made by the public, by the EOT or on behalf of the public or of the EOT, such as ‘XENIA’ hotels, which are owned by the EOT. Any of these may not be authorised or excluded from this arrangement shall be deemed arbitrary and demolished within six months. I consider it very important that the free use of beaches is now completely regulated and with increased rates at which this exists. In particular, the 60% rate must be clear not in non-accessible areas, but in areas with absolute public access. At the same time, there is the possibility of giving use to projects that have been carried out in the Aegean by 28-7-2011 - I repeat - involving specific activities whether they are seafarers, energy, or the development of the national economy or other such issues. Finally, Article 39 provides for the adoption of an administrative expulsion protocol, a protocol setting out compensation for arbitrary use and a demolition protocol against the arbitrary owners of the seaside, the beach and public areas. There is the six-month time limit for demolition of arbitrary structures which prevent free access to the seaside and the beach and which cannot by law now we are debating to take the necessary concessions - uses. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the management of the cavalry is always treated as a maximum capital of natural beauty, with appropriate constitutional protection, by safeguarding and extending public rights, by preventing arbitrariness from now on, and at the same time by resolving chronic pathogens of the past which have operated both counter-environmentally and anti-developmentally. I think that the debate that took place in the relevant parliamentary committee has largely given examples of such arbitrariness or interventions in the cavalry, which also the existing institutional framework did not force them in particular and which gave rise to a thousand distortions, whether they were public intervention or the possibility of maintaining these works in the cavalry, whether they relate to desalination of either a biological or a road network within the cavalry, which is clearly defined, or to businesses and private interventions, but which have very specific characteristics. And always - and I say this clearly, because I think that the debate on that point will tend there, too, to the committee responsible - concerns two conditions: firstly, the legal permission of these facilities and, secondly, the necessary approval of environmental conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too. Before Mr Besiropoulos talks, I will make an announcement. The Minister of National Defence, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Interior, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Solidarity, Citizen Protection, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Territories Policy and Rural Development, Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, National Defence, Economic and Health, as well as Ministers of Labour, Social Security and Solidarity and Economic Affairs, submitted draft law on 12-4-19, entitled ‘Personnel Responsibilities for Armed Forces, Strategic Affairs, Military Justice and Other Provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Also, Ms. Hara Kefalidou, MP of the Drama Prefecture from the Democratic Association, asks for a short-day leave abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u5	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the abundance and abstention, the two main elements which characterize the government's parliamentary and legislative function, are confirmed. In addition to ratifying the agreement on the Asian Infrastructure and Investment Bank, we have incorporated two European directives into national legislation, which should already have been transposed and come with considerable delay, which the government cannot justify. We also have amending provisions in Law 2971/2001 on Hayalou and the beach and the dispersed fragmentary provisions of jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. In general, there is an image that is far from being correctly legitimised. It is given our agreement on the first part of the bill, in which the agreement on the Asian Infrastructure and Investment Bank is ratified and the necessary arrangements are made for our country to become a full member of this bank, in which most of the Member States of the European Union are already involved. Our country's participation in this bank has a development perspective and a targeting approach, but, apart from having to exist in the country and a government that plans and implements development policies and supports entrepreneurship. And this will be the government of the New Democracy, which will very soon be called upon by the majority of the Greek people to assume the responsibilities of the government of the country. The bill provides for the late incorporation of two European directives, which the government is responsible for, since there is no planning and rationalization in the legislative work. The Government had two whole years at its disposal to bring in the rules for the transposition of the two Directives in good time. The first is the European Council Directive 2016/1065 on provisions for the treatment of coupons as means of exchange for transactions made for the supply of goods or services. I would remind you that it is a directive that contains provisions which should be incorporated and applied as from 1 January 2019. But the government brings them to the vote for more than four months later and gives them retroactive power. This Directive explicitly defines the taxable value of the supply of goods or services, carried out against multiple-purpose coupons. In addition, there is a distinction between specific purpose coupons and multi-purpose coupons and provisions on the rules on the supply of goods or services and the tax requirement. The same delay in transposition into national legislation is noted in Directive 2016/1164/EU laying down rules against tax evasion, which have a direct impact on the internal market. At the same time, measures are also adopted to implement Regulations 345 and 346/2013/EU concerning European venture capital companies and European social entrepreneurship funds respectively. We, as I have had the opportunity to point out to the Committee on Economic Affairs, are positively addressing the provisions implementing Regulation 345/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council in Articles 12 to 18 of the draft law, on European venture capital companies, after forming a framework of control and transparency, with the strengthening of the powers and powers of supervision of the Securities and Market Commission. In the same direction, Articles 19 to 22 of the draft law, which take the necessary measures to implement Regulation 346/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on European social entrepreneurship funds, are also in progress with the supervision of the capital market committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the arrangements for amending Law 2971/2001 on the sea and the beach. First of all, it is worth wondering why the government waited for more than four years and brought these arrangements in the last days of its term of office. Some of these arrangements are reasonable, for example in Article 24, where private property is included between the sanctuary and the public road. In the explanatory statement, there is also an indirect reference to the tragic events of last summer in Matti, but the scale of the tragedy in Matti and the hundred dead are not due both to the absence of passages, in some cases, to the beach as well as to the paralysis and inadequacy of the government's civil protection mechanism. In Article 24, we have called for a legislative improvement in the provision which provides for the possibility of carrying out projects in the protected areas, in which I repeat precisely: 'for the purpose of pursuing the objectives set out in this law'. I believe, Minister, that there needs to be clarification so that shadows do not hover from these purposes. Furthermore, in the light of Article 24(5), provision should be made in the bill in order to apply to the old cavalry what is applicable to the possibility of granting in exchange for the sanctuary and the beach. A positive provision for setting up within the Ministry of Economic Secondary Education the limits of the agialos, the beach and the old agialos can be ruled out. Obviously, targeting is to reduce the burden and burden of the Council of State on these issues. However, the issue of complaints against administrative action requires a more comprehensive approach. The same article provides for an appeal against the decision to redefinition the line of a saint beach and old hayalou, before the secondary committee referred to in Article 25. However, reference should be made to the consequences, in the event that the deadline laid down for a decision on the appeal is not complied with. The provision of Article 31 is designed to provide a solution to a problem faced by tourist municipalities. I am referring to the amendment of the institutional framework concerning the concession of the use of hay and other common areas, an amendment which provides for the granting of a free area of at least 60% of the total area of hay. This is a reasonable arrangement, since the previous one provided for the obligation to keep a hundred metres away from more concessions, which was impossible on small beaches. Article 32 changes the way the floating platforms are licensed. Yes, but the responsibility for the off-shore maritime zone remains with the Ministry of Finance. The question that the Minister should consider is whether the services of the Ministry of Finance can respond to the fulfilment of these new responsibilities, given that a new significant administrative burden is added. I have read very carefully, ladies and gentlemen, the report of the Scientific Council of Parliament, which raises issues of constitutionality for some of these provisions, and I would like to refer to Article 28, which contains provisions on existing projects and facilities based on development laws and contracts that have expired. This provision allows the maintenance of works in this category, i.e. works and installations which are deprived of the necessary licence, if they have been manufactured by 28-7-2011 and an application for authorisation or exemption from demolition has been submitted within a period of two months. Recall that such an arrangement was established by Law 4223/2013, which SYRIZA had voted against. However, this provision may involve issues of constitutionality, since it provides for the ownership of the public for all the projects and installations on the protected areas of Law 2971/2001, so that it may be possible at any time to abolish or convert them for reasons of public interest, without any obligation to compensate the licensee. I would also like to make a comment on the provisions of Article 33 on the granting of use on the altar and other common things to carry out projects. While the applicant has so far submitted an application and the relevant documentation has been collected by the competent authorities, it is now required to submit a complete dossier by him. How feasible, however, is this because of bureaucracy? The aim should therefore be to facilitate the collection of supporting documents and not simply to ask the interested party to gather them and to submit a complete file. I would also like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the government has made changes to Article 36, in line with the points we have made in the debate on the draft law in the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I am making a few references to the articles in the last part of the bill which constitute fragmentary and unreasonable provisions between them. Article 44 creates a new position of Vice-President at the Legal Council of State, for which the Government was unable to justify its necessity. We believe, however, that the provision, in which the Inspection Office is established, is to be set up at the Legal Council of the State to which evaluation tasks are assigned. It is assumed that we have a different approach to the provision in Article which reduces the public debt rate by 6%, which is currently at the rate of the European Central Bank's main refinancing operations in force at the date of the exercise of the due amount of more than three percentage points per year. In other words, the interest rate for public debts will be 3%, while for public debt to the public it is three times higher. Has the Minister of Finance asked what message does he get to the citizens and society under this provision? In fact, you are bringing in a regulation that provides for a reduction of 3% of the current 6%, at the rate charged by the State for debts to private individuals when they are delayed and in the end is obliged to pay them. As is clear from the report by the Scientific Service of Parliament, there are serious reservations about the compatibility of the proposed regulation with the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. Following legal doubts, the provision of interest rates of only 6% for public debt was considered legal because of the economic crisis. While you are claiming that the country has come out of the Memorandum, instead of restoring the principle of equal treatment between public and private individuals, you are even greater inequality. If you wanted to reduce the interest due, we would agree, but subject to the provision of a corresponding reduction in the interest rate for private individuals' debts to the public. On the contrary, you are now coming with this provision and you are actually mocking the total public debts, further reducing the interest rate, without making any change in the interest due on the part of individuals. It is a regulation that refers to a state that loses and the last votes of confidence in its citizens. I come to Article 56, which provides for the payment of 10% of the sums imported into Greece from dividend income, subject to the management of the vessels from Greece, which amounts to a minimum of EUR 40 000 000 on an annual basis. It is essentially the continuation of the Conservative voluntary contribution to the Greek State, so that the shipping community can help the national effort to stabilise the economy. The first contributor was made by former Prime Minister Samaras and the Greek Shipowners' Association in 2013. We start with the softest remarks: Firstly, the press release announcing Mr Tsipras' meeting with the Greek Shipowners' Association, which was published by the Maximos Mansion, provided revenues for the Greek State at a minimum of EUR 75 million per annum. However, under Article 56, revenue is limited to EUR 40 million and the government must explain. I submit for the minutes the Prime Minister's press release issued on 27 February 2019. In less than two months, 75 million became 40. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Apostolos Veyropoulos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, if we look back at the time when the first agreement by the Samara Government was signed with the Shipowners' Union, all that has been left is the voices of SYRIZA, which today has swallowed its language. Because then, shortly after the signature of the consortium, SYRIZA MPs had tabled a question to the House, denounceing the process of volunteering the shipowners with this promise. In the Minutes, I make a copy of the specific question which the Members have signed, inter alia, on behalf of the Commission. Tsakalotos, Stathakis, Kouroublis, Drasakis, Dritsas, Papadimoulis. Some of them, those in this Chamber, will shortly vote on what they had denounced in 2013. So that we do not remember Mr. Tsipras' announcements in Yannina to tax shipowners of all four thousand Greek vessels, from which you would get 2 billion euros. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Apostolos Veyropoulos, presents for the Minutes the above question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With these practices, which characterise the government and SYRIZA, the limits between self-deception and political fraud are even more indiscriminate. Because it's certain you didn't have any delusions. All you have is dependency and obsession with the chair. For the chair, you're capable of everything. For the chair and only you are able to vote everything. I conclude with a reference to Article 58, which is another example of government inconsistencies and clandestineness. The Government extends the period by which the Court of Auditors will continue to exercise preventive control over the expenditure of the Local Authorities until 31/12-2019. What is this extension for? For the simple reason that the government has done nothing to institutionalise and activate internal audit services in the TAs. Essential reforms in self-government and the real problems of selfgovernment are not of interest to the government. Its interventions are only exhausted in the electoral system in order to create a dissolutionary situation and conditions of independence in the municipalities. Since SYRIZA does not have powers in self-government and its candidates are oppressed, then the choice of SYRIZA is to dismantle the municipalities with this electoral system. The New Democracy, as you all can see, approached the bill with responsibility and synthetic perception. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is counting for days. In front of us is an election campaign in which citizens will show her the way out. The election result and the message of the citizens will be so resounding that it will force you to land in reality. The government's disapproval is universal, as is the electoral defeat it will suffer. But it is the next day. In the next day, New Democracy claims a vote of unity and trust from all Greeks, to dawn a new day for the country, with truth and hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Besiropoulos. Madam Secretary, until the speakers are done, because I heard from the day before yesterday that you had legislative improvements, we would not have them at the end, so that at least the parliamentary representatives would know them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u8	They will be here shortly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u9	Okay. We are moving with the special speaker from the Democratic Partnership, Mr. Yiannis Koutsoukos. Close the list of colleagues. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill of great discrepancy. On the one hand this bill legalises arbitrariness and on the other, it is dissatisfied with the interests and activities of the citizens. It is a contradiction to which I shall refer when I come to the articles relating to the sanctuary and the beach. Is it, though, to give you the impression that a bill is being run by such great contradictions? I think not, because we have all realised that we are living at a time when the government's policy is being perpetuated by these great contradictions as a whole. I will tell you two, three examples, so to enrich the debate. The government, for example, denounces the extreme right and confronts the extreme right. The government denounces populism and populism is in SYRIZA's DNA. The government denounces the great interests and puts them on its ballots, by name and surname. He denounces the government or says that we have charged the country while paying off the International Monetary Fund and the debt is increasing. Says the government that we came out of the memorials and obeys the jewels of the lenders in all its political manifestations. For example, Mr Tsakalotos says that growth has come and, as the information of the recently published AIA has shown, the incomes of taxpayers, pensioners, free tradesmen and farmers have decreased. Who did they raise? The businessmen. I mentioned some of the major contradictions. So this bill also has very interesting provisions in the first part concerning the ratification of the agreement on the development bank and the second on the harmonisation of directives and regulations, and in the third and fifth parts of which are the diffuse provisions of the Ministry of Finance. That is what I shall refer to when the time comes. Ladies and gentlemen, as the other Members of Parliament have done, I should like to refer specifically to what should be a separate legislative initiative by the Government, through a systematic dialogue and consultation, because the issues of the protection of the sanctuary and the beach are issues that the legislator must incorporate in the constitutional requirements of Article 24 on environmental protection, which have been extensively interpreted by the Council of State and we must take account of all these interpretations. So why did I say that this bill on the one hand legalise arbitrary and, on the other, intervene arbitrarily in legal activities? See Article 28 in conjunction with Article 34 and Article 23 in conjunction with Article 24. In Article 23 the aegialos and the beach that was based on the old legislation from 0 to 50 meters is now becoming minimum 30, max 50. This means that the activities that could, with old arrangements, be legal, possibly from now on, new engravings will not be legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u11	Do you support this or not, that is, the minimum?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u12	I think it needs to be changed, Mr Manda, and I have explained it because we have the particular circumstances of each region. The draft law also provides for a committee to examine these particular circumstances. Now look at Article 24. Rule 24 - I do not know if you have understood it, but a colleague, who is also a law-abiding legal officer, from SYRIZA, has pointed it out - changes the designation of the old havoc. This is done in paragraph 5 of Article 24, which means that the old yacht from private public property is now made public property. This means that a number of activities that are adjacent to the sea and the beach can no longer have to do with the sea and the beach and a number of activities of small and medium-sized enterprises, especially the focus, which either were rented or owned, no longer exist. It is what I told you during the debate in committee, which called me and finally sent a memorandum from the President of the GSE, and the BSE report also points it out in the relevant memorandum. So, you're displeased. And now how do you legalize arbitrariness? You come with Articles 28 and 34 to legalise a generation of arbitrariness from 2001 to 2011. Why from 2001 to 2011? Because the law on the Aegean Sea and the beach of 2001, which was autonomous law, enabled arbitrariness to be regulated by provisions of the same law that were extended until 2011 gradually. From there on, there was no possibility of arbitrarily born after Law 2971/2001. You are now coming to Article 28 and you are interpreting associated operational activities with the enterprises that had been subject to development laws. In Article 34 you also have paragraph 1(b), where the Minister of Finance as a tsar of the economy will be able to legalise such activities. We told you, Minister, regardless of what we will do with the other possibilities, at least remove that because it gives the suspicion of the transaction. We - to be very informed - would like a debate to update on the basis of the opinions of the national courts and other environmental bodies and have their own sensitivities, the existing legislation. You went through this without a debate. If we did not have our own intervention in the committee responsible, we would not even have the opportunity to listen to the institutions. WWF came, the topographers came, sent us a postmortem memorandum from GSEW, BSE and so on. and these problems have been highlighted. In this process, ladies and gentlemen, it has been understood that your Government has done a great deal of political failure. What is the political omission? The political omission is what I told you in committee too, that Mr Maniatis, as a competent Minister, gave the real estate services of the public an integrated electronic platform with the countryside to put on the line of the Aegean and the beach where there is, to see where there is no and to take measures at the same time to complete this process of engraving the saints and the beach, which we consider to be the one to be, and the rest of it is superfluous. You're five years of government and things stayed where they stayed. Isn't that a political responsibility, ladies and gentlemen? Aren't you the ones accusing us of being the old one, who, with the arbitrariness in the forests and the beaches, gave us the opportunity to make these disasters, to get over the back of Mrs. Durus and the government your responsibilities for the loss of so many human lives? And you're telling us about these when you come to legalize them. Therefore, with this position, we will also be awaiting the legislative improvements that Mrs Papanatziou has promised us. I believe that it will take serious account of what has been said - not only from me, but also from other speakers from the opposition parties and majority MPs - and make substantial corrections, not from the verbal point of view, that is to say, to change the title of the article, but to change the content and procedure of the provision itself. We are a party that we have supported at a very great cost, when we have had our stay in the European Union, the functioning of the European institutions. We have said, ladies and gentlemen, that our country has no other way of doing things than Europe, which we are struggling to change. That is why we will be voting for the harmonization of the directives and the incorporation of the regulations. We're not talking about that. We will also vote for the Asian Bank provision, although it has no direct practical effect for our country. However, I would like to focus on some of the provisions of the fifth part which I consider to be particularly important, ladies and gentlemen. The report of the Scientific Council of the Parliament dedicates ten or more pages to indicate that Article 45 for the interest-bearing of public debt is a favourable regulation for the benefit of the public. It refers to a number of decisions by both the CoR and the European Court of Justice which say that the public cannot legislate for itself. So it is not possible for the public to give a 3% interest rate to those he owes and at the same time to ask them 7.25%. The Scientific Council of Parliament dedicated ten pages to overturn the provision of Rule 45. One would say that yes, we agree with the effort to reduce the public's cost of serving his obligations, although the public is not justified in having due time at the time when he receives special funds to pay back those due, but he must respect the citizen, because the citizen who owes him to the public and who is under the tomb of the ADI and the seizures, another interest rate is called on to pay the public and another will receive for what he owes him the public and does not give him, so that he himself is a debtor. I also wanted to refer in a positive way, but with a critical look, to the provisions of Article 56 on the new symposium on shipowners, because, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you in two words what you said in 2013, when this new symposium was signed and what theories you have developed, and Mr Tsipras personally, that you would receive EUR 2 billion from the shipowners. It was like the ones you'd receive from the Lagard list and the other lists, and you'd lose the public debt. And finally, you're left behind by the place that debts of malignant public life are being tampered with. Well, we will vote for the new proviso, as will the other provisions by which you make arrangements for the contribution of Article 25 of Law 27/1975 to shipping companies located in Greece. We will also vote on the provisions concerning the exemption from HNVO in fire-fighting areas and the completion of the tax obligation for those who took these retrospectives. I'm just going to stand by Article 55 for public confiscations as a third party. Are you aware, ladies and gentlemen, that of these nine hundred or thousands of confiscations made by the ADAE, putting the long-handed hand to the accounts, a large proportion relates to seizures in public hands as a third party, where the State intervenes and confiscates the revenues of small businesses against their clients? In other words, it deprives a small company of the income it has from the sale of the products and thus the possibility of buying raw materials and of serving the needs of the staff and the rents. So he's closing it. This situation is getting out of hand now, and it's out of control. I would also like to refer to the problematic provision of Article 61 for the Committee on Games. Other colleagues have referred to this during the committee procedure. To conclude, we will be placed positively and negatively on the articles of Parts 1, 2, 3, 3 and 5, and with my position in the articles in Part Four, which concern both the saints and the beaches, it must be done - and I believe that, where improvements are made to citizens' rights to access the beach to make certain rules, we have no objection to voting on it. I'd say that's supposed to have happened. But where you give these possibilities that I have told you to legitimise a new generation of arbitrariness, we are not going to agree. And I would invite you to see the documentation of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament on this matter. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of State recently rejected your legal structure on housing densities. And on the basis of what the Scientific Committee of Parliament says, it is clear that it will also destroy the other structures of Articles 28 and 34, because it cannot be tolerated by the constitutional legislature that, in the constitutional order, it says: 'we are declining the arbitrary to the sanctuary and the beach', we find a number of ways to serve them. This obviously, as the Scientific Committee of the House again points out in its documented view, cannot be done by horizontal arrangements. It requires special documentation and special provisions at a time. In this respect, then, I believe that what I said at the beginning of my position on a bill of major contradictions that on the one hand legalises arbitrariness and, on the other hand, is arbitrary at the expense of legitimate activities and citizens' rights, is demonstrated by my position and my reference to these articles, based on the documentation I have produced. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. The Members of the Democratic Partnership have tabled an amendment on the access of the Municipality of Haidario to the former establishments of the Scaramaga shipyards. And the hypothetical person who I tabled for the many years, since the government does well to give Greek public property to the municipalities, because otherwise Mr. Tsakalotos will take them to the supranational, the amendment to grant the coastal area of the municipal camp in the Municipality of Ilida. And I would ask the Minister not to evade, but to put it directly on these amendments - our proposals. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u13	We shall now proceed as follows: I will now give the floor for three minutes to Minister Haritsis to present his amendment. The three speakers will be finished. And to arrange your programming, I inform you that fourteen colleagues were on the list. Estimate that with a small tolerance, particularly to colleagues who have only seven minutes, the meeting will be concluded between 17.00' and 18.00'. Parliament's representatives will also be given the floor. Mr. Dendias, Mr. Pappas has asked for the floor. Mr. Maddash will speak at the end and whoever else wants. I take note of Mr. Maniots. They will take the floor depending on when the Minister will speak, but it is not necessary for the Minister to speak first. Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u14	That's enough, Mr. President. Thank you very much. I will support the amendment with a general number of 2086 and a specialist of 276. It concerns the amendment of Article 25 of Law 4479/2017. It is essentially the possibility that this year's allocation of funds to cover fire protection actions will be made directly to the OTAs and that it will not, in other words, be necessary to pass through the municipalities, but directly to the associations, so that delays will not occur due to bureaucratic procedures. This regulation has also been a request from the Coordinating Committee of the Attica Associations, and I would also like to thank the links for the cooperation we have had. So we are going through this important regulation, so that, for this year's time, the process of payment of appropriations to the associations will be progressed unnecessarily, without the slightest delay, so that there will be proper preparation for the firefighting period which of course starts very soon. And if you'll excuse me, I'll come to one final comment. Because we have worked with the Ministry of Civil Protection and the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, I know that an important bill is being prepared on civil protection issues as a whole. This will also lead to a general redesign and streamlining of all the appropriations relating to fire protection, but also to the issues of dealing with natural disasters in general. I think it will be a very important regulation which we will soon have the opportunity to discuss here in Parliament as well. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u15	We proceed with the special speaker from the Golden Dawn, Mr Evangelos Karakostas. Here, Mr. Caracosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. As I have mentioned at the meetings of the committee responsible, the draft law before us follows the stumbling-up of all the recent legislation of the SYRIZA Government. In other words, it consists of five parts, each of which could well be a separate bill, because they negotiate issues completely unrelated to each other, but the consequences of which are extremely important in terms of economics, development issues and society as a whole. That is why we believe that the government should have dealt with them much more seriously. From this point of view, for example, of our country's accession to the Asian Infrastructure and Investment Bank, which, as I told you in committee, is a positive prospect for us, until the government's unscrupulous and outrageous attempt to legitimise the built over the Aegean arbitrary, the distance is chaotic and obviously neither a single attitude nor, of course, a single approach can be found. So what one reasonably concludes is that the SYRIZA Government, feeling the end of its political life and its forthcoming electoral collapse, resorts to legislative initiatives, which serves specific interests in a desperate attempt to find a board of political salvation. Since, therefore, by the legislations of previous months and with a multitude of photographic and roussyfological provisions, it recruited the public through the recommendations of committees, stamps and councils to any kind of unlikely body of the state machine, in gift movements, secondments and satisfaction of wage claims, it comes to this draft law and incorporates fourthly regulations relating to the cavalry, amending the earlier legislation. In the meanwhile, general regulations and vagueness introduce Article 34, which opens the door to Evilos as regards the possibility of mass legitimisation of arbitrary, sanctuary-related texts with a simple ministerial decision, which I shall refer to in detail below. As far as Part One and Articles 1 to 7 are concerned, as a general principle, we have to say that the movement of Greek nationalists sees any action of the country, which is intended to be detached from the suffocating embrace of the International Monetary Fund and the other institutions, which in the last decades have fully control over our national economy, to move in a proper direction. Since, therefore, the Asian Infrastructure and Investment Bank is in opposition to the United States-controlled institutions of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, there is a positive outlook for Greece's participation in this body, which can act positively towards the exercise of a multidimensional and detached foreign policy at international level. The effective and necessary treaty, however, in order for the Greek economy to have a positive outlook from this accession, would be the existence of a genuine national governance in the country, which the Tsiprasgovernment Government and its ambitious replacements - those of the so-called constitutional arch - are of course not able to offer. In Part Two and Part Three, Articles 8 to 22 are incorporated into the domestic legislation of the European Union on specific tax matters, such as the calculation of VAT in coin-issuing procedures, the rules on taxation of controlled foreign companies and the matters of competence of the Securities and Market Committee. It is a consistent position of the People's Association - Golden Dawn that the opposition to any legislation incorporating it into our national law, prevailing over it, any directive, regulation and any kind of legislation of the European Union. The possibility and the right of our country, but also of every state, to exercise completely self-evident and independent legislative power within national territory is an unnegotiable position for the Golden Dawn and anything less for us to grant national sovereignty. Our domestic legal system, but also our legal culture, is sufficiently capable of regulating domestic legislation, without any need for us to give this power to the Brussels technocrats. In Part Four of the draft law, and under Articles 23-42, the legislative regime for the sanctuary and the beach is revised and law 2971/2001 is amended up to now. In the first paragraph of Article 34, it states that ‘projects built up until 28-7-2011 on the Aegean Sea, the beach, the bank, the coastal zone, the water element, the seabed and the subsoil, the lagoon, the lake and the riverbed, without any decision to grant use, irrespective of the adoption of a demolition protocol until the entry into force of the draft law, may be authorised by reasoned decision of the Ministry of Finance’. This point, in our view, is the epitome of the client state, which would have been shattered by the left-wing government, but which, in fact, not only supports it, but also strengthens it. This is a hopeless attempt by the SYRIZA Minority Government to save itself politically, offering contractors, construction workers, but also private arbitrary owners, across the Greek territory, the possibility of legalising the arbitrary simply by means of a ministerial decision. That is why we in the Golden Dawn have a duty towards the Greek people to denounce the phenomenon of supply and compensation, where the government provides the shameful provision of Article 34 and the opposition of the favoured companies and the citizens of the government is obviously the political support for the government in view of the forthcoming elections. This Article 34 is the core of the draft law to be adopted on the subject of the framework law governing the sea and the beach. And the government's attempt to justify unjustified, claiming that its objective is unfettered access to the cavalry, does nothing more than cause the public feeling, as the memories of the tragedy in Eye, which cost more than a hundred people our lives, a tragedy for which the Left, in order to eliminate its enormous responsibilities, has denounced the phenomena of unreserved construction. Now this same government comes to legitimize everything he previously accused. The possibility of mass legitimacy of the sanctuary texts, as provided for in Article 34, has, of course, caused strong reactions to society and to environmental organisations. It is worth pointing out that the well-known WWF environmental organisation is supporting the Government's efforts by letter, as described in Article 34. We read self-evidently from the letter: "The draft law under discussion includes the substantial abolition of the protective regime for the country's coastal and coastal zone. He continues: “All institutional framework for arbitrary settlement is increasing legal insecurity. When it is so obvious that the House is struggling to settle those who are arbitrary, violating important provisions of legislation on building, planning and environmental protection, how can citizens have justifiable confidence in a rule of law which it itself abolishes?' And the WWF's letter concludes: "A climax of the inequality of citizens towards the law is Article 34, one of the worst incidents of gross legitimisation in favour of the common natural heritage". At a time when the Turkish challenges have increased in the Aegean Sea and beyond, they are being launched on a daily basis by the Turkish political and military leadership of lasting, clear and clear war threats to Greece, the SYRIZA Government brings forth a provision - in particular Article 36 of the bill - that allows the use of islands, rock islands, reefs, mosques and shallow sea areas, as well as the continuous saint and the beach. As we pointed out at the first meeting of the committee responsible, this is an inappropriate gift of the "bolsheviks" of the government to the Ottoman "all" of them, who - notable - holds them firmly in power with the votes of the three Muslim MPs in Thrace, whom Tayyip Erdogan himself has described during his visit to Komotini as his own. So he won't have to understand the rocky islands, the army islands. It will be able to rent them or even buy them by the Turkish state through'strong people', which will appear as entrepreneurs. And when the time comes, businessmen will disappear and Turkish flags will appear and, of course, claims that these territories are part of the Turkish territory. Of course, we have known the positions of the Left on national issues for a long time, and no surprise arises from the policy of self-esteem, treason and the waste that is being followed by consciousness. For decades, however, the Left has been accusing itself as a protector of popular classes and poor social strata. Article 45 of the draft law also breaks down this post-political myth. Under Article 45, therefore, it changes to the detriment of individuals who have public debts, the method of calculating the interest due - lawful and late - public debts to private individuals. In accordance with the provision to be voted on by the left of the 'Latvia', the interest that the State has to pay to the citizens to whom it owes it and the 6% that has been in force so far - and for a five-year period - is now falling to 3%. On the other hand, individuals with late public debts have been charged with interest since the first day of delay, the amount of which is at least 8.76%. Thanks to the left, that is to say, the state is not enough to bring the citizens to the attention of 2010 mainly and until now, but it is also making moves which show that it acts as an especially loan shark that sucks the blood of its unfortunate victims. In fact, it attempts to convince the naives that the operation in question becomes imperative and necessary as, as noted in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, the amount of interest is particularly high for the current financial conditions, not adjusted to the financial environment concerned, resulting in a serious burden on the State budget. Incidentally, in the same bill and in Article 66, the Left Government decides and orders the grant by the State of EUR 8 million for the creation of a Holocaust Museum in Thessaloniki. You see, this expenditure, according to the State of the Left, is not considered too high for the current budgetary conditions and, of course, does not constitute a serious burden on the state budget. These few things to prevent the political fraudsters of the Left from presenting us with the guardians of the social state and solidarity with the poor Greeks. I shall refer to Amendment No 2086/276, which we shall support. We will support it, although suspicious of the way in which the funds are handled, just because it concerns fire protection. As far as Amendment No 2087/277 is concerned, we shall be opposed. Amendment No 2089/278 consists of three articles, which deal entirely with issues which are not related to each other. If it does not break into individual articles, we will have to deal with it negatively. Otherwise, we will support the first article, which we consider to be fair. To conclude, the government of xenophobia and national deprivation must fall and the Golden Dawn will make a maximum contribution in this direction. That is why we are voting against this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, fourteen students and students and two teachers from the 2nd St. Barbara High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed with the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasio Bardalis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking about a multi-brand plan on various issues relating to the establishment of the Agreement with the Asian Bank for Infrastructure and Investment, the Cayalus, the beaches, the rivers and lakes, the incorporation of directives of the European Union and the conciliatory agreement between the Government and shipowners on voluntary taxation and other provisions, of course, in the last part of the Fifth. On these key issues, the debate in committee, but also the debate in plenary so far, has shown that all the other parties agree and do not have any substantial differences. What does it prove once again? It turns out that when it comes to issues relating to capitalist development, the facilitation of business groups and shipowners by any directive of the European Union comes for ratification in the Greek Parliament, then not only do you have a different view, but the convergences between you are glimpsing. Next to this agreement and the Association of Greek Industrialists and other representatives of entrepreneurs did not hide in committee, in the discussion with the institutions, their satisfaction with this legislative initiative by the Government with the specific content. Of course, it will be well wondered, as many Members of Parliament have done, both of the New Democracy and of the Democratic Alliance, why the shocks are bad when they are about the good of the country and of the economy. Let us see, then, who is doing such a good thing, which promotes the specific bill that we are discussing. Firstly, with the ratification of the agreement with the Asian Bank, our country becomes a member. But who will gain from such a development? Why does our country have to become a member of the Asian Bank? All other parties claim that it will finance investment projects from which the Greek economy will generally benefit. Indeed, the purpose of this bank is to finance investment in the construction of energy pipelines, port and air facilities, telecommunications and transport networks, which will boost investment in various other sectors of the economy by implementing the Silk Road, a road that reflects China's efforts to strengthen its position and role in international economic and not just developments, by paving the way for the enrichment of its own monopolies. In particular in the Balkans and in our country there is a $3 billion investment fund and a $10 billion credit line as part of the Silk Road, that is to say, big business. Such investments contribute to the promotion of the country in a hub of transport and goods, as well as energy resources. These business groups see them, they smelled profits, that is, and they run into their food. For the same reason the powerful Western powers, such as Germany, France, Britain, Italy and others, are involved. As part of these urban planning and pursuits, the Greek Government decided to participate Greece in the Asian Bank's share capital, with the expectation that it could finance projects that develop Greek enterprises in the Middle East, Asia, as well as projects developed in Greece, as well as in the Balkans. These designs of the bourgeoisie are also served by Greece's accession to "Initiative 17 + 1" countries of eastern, south-eastern and central Europe and China, announced yesterday by the Prime Minister from Dubrovnik. However, what do workers have to gain from these developments? The argument for growth, which will benefit workers, the example of 'COSCO', but also any other investment that has been made in our country, with or without Chinese monopolies, is clear: not only will they have nothing to gain, not only will they continue to bleed to continue to fuel the profitability of business groups, but also by exacerbating competition from groups, but also from the imperialist countries, for the defence of the interests of each side, and also serious risks to the peoples of the region. Secondly, it is a genuine provocation and arrogant mocking for the people that the symposium of voluntary offerings of government and shipowners is a symphony. With this voluntary contribution, it comes to cover the robbery privileges, which are enjoyed by all over the time by governments in terms of logistics and which are threefold and triple loaded on the backs of the people with taxation and a intensity of the exploitation of seafarers. Privileges, tax exemptions and state aid for shipowners, which all the other parties have made sure that they are guaranteed in the Constitution, which gather intact riches and dozens of tax exemptions from the urban state. Only the JRC over time has opposed the constitutional safeguarding of logistical privileges. He requested and asked for their abolition in all constitutional revision procedures from 1974 to the recent one. Shipowners pay when they want to, if they want anything they want. At the same time, you are raiding the workers and the people's families. After all, this path of voluntary contribution by shipowners with some pilgrims - around the 40th - which recently agreed with SYRIZA is "patents", discovered and first implemented by the New Democracy. Progressive front with shipowners, the European Union and NATO! Blind the maintenance! Third issue: With Part Four of the bill, Hayalous, lakes, rivers, unique ecosystems are thrown into the jaws of business groups. To achieve this, what did SYRIZA do? He incorporated into the bill we are discussing, a series of reactionary arrangements that the previous urban governments of PASOK and New Democracy had attempted to legislate between 2006 and 2014 - was the last attempt - with bills that were then pushing, but for various reasons they were not voted on. You'd probably think that he shouldn't go all that lost work that the old did - in quotes, as you say - political staff and brought these regulations into this bill. So, what did you bring? First of all, they are arbitrarily legitimized, more intervention routes are opened and a number of facilities are given to capital in relation to what existing legislation provides for. Promote further the commercialisation of all this and all that in the name of capitalist development. In the name of capitalist development, that is, you are taking steps to settle public and private arbitrary interventions in the coastal zone. You are opening another way for coast and river concessions for oil and gas extraction research. You limit the access of the folk layers to the coastal and insular space. A number of business activities are permitted, specifically listed in the draft law. The water elements are also added under the tampering of the arrangements of the bill. It is clear that the rights acquired in the old hayar are not affected, that is to say, in the areas created by emblems in the seas, in particular through concessions. Article 31 provides for the possibility of providing directly for the concession of agialou, beach, etc. in grade I and in their municipal enterprises for simple use, even in NATURA areas, and of course, they can sell the use to large-scale investors for exploitation. Simple uses are now included - a new Article 13A - and all types of maritime recreational or other related activities. Things are getting worse in Article 33, granting business groups the use of hayaloo, beach and other common things to build projects. A number of business activities, such as infrastructures for the execution of all forms of transport - a phrase that hides and water for water-planes - installations for the production of electricity from RES and any consortium work, are allowed. Special mention is made of both the concession of the use of hayaloo and beach, even on rocky islands and everything else that serves to infiltrate the RES. Article 36 permits a sale in the capital of the use of islands, rock islands, reefs, steep and shallow sea land, as well as the continuous hayaloo and the beach of all sensitive ecosystems for many projects such as tourism, energy, aquaculture, sea sports, etc. A special charismatic provision shall be provided for water-growing establishments, allowing land-based accompanies to suspend the adoption and execution of an administrative elimination protocol and a demolition protocol, as well as the payment of the fine concerned. Article 14A provides for the possibility of legalising works that have been built until 28-7-2011 in a saint, beach, etc. And among them - in introductory terms, as you say - 'national importance projects'. The "national importance" fits everything. The projects implemented unlawfully or will be implemented until the entry into force of the draft law concerning the installation of underwater cables shall be legal and shall be exempted from any fine. The amounts collected by the public or the municipality from the concession for the simple use of hayaloo, beach and other public things are shared to 60% in the municipalities and 40% in the public. In our opinion, this is, in fact, a compensatory provision for the municipalities, in order to facilitate the least possible responses to the level of social acceptance, in other words, to accept the large sell-out to the legal business groups. Of all this, it is clear that the SYRIZA Government neither wants nor has the political will to put an end to arbitrary interventions by removing arbitrary business interventions. The right of the working class, the people's family to rest, for holidays, for recreation, which are an urgent need nowadays, is thrown into the Cabinet of capitalist development. Protection of the Aegean from the point of view of the people's interests requires a struggle with a framework, which will confront all the business activities of the monopolies, the capitalist framework of spatial reconstruction, part of which is the legislative intervention for the Aegean Sea, the beach and other common spatial elements, together with the bill under discussion. Capitalist property on earth, on hotels, on pooled means of production is incompatible with satisfying the needs of the people for permanent and stable work, in order to ensure the right to recreation and rest, in order to satisfy all people's needs. It is a one-way labour power with socialised land and pooled production, with scientific centralized design and labour control. In conclusion, in order to stabilise the capitalist growth of the Greek economy, to reduce the profits of business groups, you create all the necessary conditions for capital, facilitate its action with a number of measures, exempt it and subsidise it. Unique ecosystems are given a gift for use in the predators of major business groups. This plan that serves capitalist profitability is a plan for the few, industrialists, shipowners, bankers and other parts of capital. As the debate in this bill has shown, among the parties serving the capital, there are no walls. That is why the workers, the people, must leave behind the path of constant sacrifices for the profits of the few. To make the real difference themselves, to breathe from the boot of this rotten system. The elections, of course, that we have before us will not overthrow this rotten exploitation system, but they can strengthen the popular movement today, putting a brake on the worst and opening up the path of overthrowing. We are voting against the bill in principle. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u19	Me, too. We are moving forward and closing down the part of the special speakers with our colleague from the Association of Centres, Mr Dimitrios Kavala.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the incorporation of the EU directive 2016/1065 on the management of the issue of the use of coupons for commercial transactions in the provision of services or in a procedure for the movement of goods. We are also discussing the issue of the Asian Infrastructure and Investment Bank, which emerged on the basis of Chinese and private initiative and which already took part in it eighteen European countries. The Centro Association is a European party with a European orientation. We believe in a united Europe of economics, culturally, in a strong, competitive Europe, in a Europe that, of course, needs much more to do for a smooth approach to economic, cultural and cultural positions. We're at the beginning. They have laid the foundations, time will give rise to our positions. We are therefore saying yes to the harmonisation of legislation, but not to the white, with an equal attitude - a position and an auditing capacity, which is of course also an obligation. Now, as far as the Asian Infrastructure and Investment Bank is concerned, we are positive here, since the Greek share of the budget is in a reasonable amount of EUR 10 million. This amount can easily be found from the Greek economy, as eighteen European countries already participate and go to integration, so that they can all be involved at some point. This bill is unfortunately, in SYRIZA's practice, a string of too many issues, which could in themselves constitute separate bills. There are both positive articles and many inadequately justified articles, as well as many which are completely outside the logic of the Centro Association. As positive we could note - not to say that we find it all black and condemn it like this, without a crisis - Article 48 which exempts, for another year, the people affected in the areas affected by fire last summer. Also positive is the grant to create an exhibition of memory in Thessaloniki for our wrongful fellow citizens of the Jewish religion who suffered the holocaust from the arrogant Nazi regime. It is important to keep the memory of atrocities alive in response to Europe's shift towards Nazism, which is a wrong direction from a crisis of democracy, from a crisis of economy, from the wars, which led millions of people to the struggle for survival and a better life. We are also discussing many other issues that are, as I said before, irrelevant to each other in this bill, thus enabling us to judge you. We want to intervene positively, to intervene with substantial reason and control practice against the 'photographic' articles, which are of course contained in this bill, as well as in many previous ones. This bill came late, of course with the responsibility of your Government, since the deadline expired on 1-1-2019 and therefore retroactive force is given for the articles that will be passed and currently drafted. The government, as usual, with its full responsibility, is late - and after the terrible fire disaster in the summer that our fellow citizens have passed on to us, where others have lost their lives, others have lost their health, the luckiest have lost their property - an amendment of the provisions of Law No 971/2001 on the sanctuary and the beach. But here, too, they infiltrate exceptions and 'loopholes'. For example, arbitrary legalisation conditions are created, which excludes demolition, as well as for arbitrary futures built after 28 July 2011, which is already this date is an expiry date for arbitrariness and no arbitrary construction can be legalised. Furthermore, without adequate legislative documentation, as Article 24 provides for the exceptional execution of projects relating to protected areas, with unprecedented justification and strange legal coverage, creating total confusion for us. I will read you a better part of this peculiar provision, which covers arbitrary action. I will open here in introductory terms, to read exactly how it is written: "For the purpose of pursuing the objectives laid down in this law", meaning that there are arbitrages for the pursuit of the objectives laid down in this law. Here, it is incomprehensible from me that we can, by covering arbitrariness, serve a law against arbitrariness. On the other hand, paragraph 5 of Article 24 declassifies the sanctuary from public private property and becomes public property, where the public character will now destroy thousands of businesses and business people living on the saint. They had facilities. Others rented boats, others rented umbrellas. There were a lot of kiosks. How will this issue be resolved, since now this space for our legitimate taxpayers to leave will be covered by planetary people who will offer almost the same services? Everywhere unscrupulous. We find it arbitrary to see the provision of Article 45, in which the state manifests its tyrannical left. And I say 'left person', because it puts forward a stronger public against the private initiative, of course, indifferent to the meanings that it gives to all those who want to invest in Greece, when the public in the provision and in the debts of the public to third parties bears a maximum of 3% interest, while it requires the citizen, our struggling citizen, the businessman, about three times. Two measures and two weights are in force. That, apart from the fact that it doesn't make sense, I guess it's not legal. You promised us solutions on all issues. You said you'd get a tax from the shipowners as well. You were aware that this cannot be done, because as far as shipowners are concerned, we also want the shipowners to offer them. I imagine they want themselves, of course those of them who have a national conscience and I think they are the majority of the shipowners. So I imagine they want to offer. Of course, these arrangements and procedures must be made at great length, they must be negotiated in delicate ways, since it is easy for a ship to change both flag and name. I would like to remind you that this market as long as it goes and is strangled by Asian intervention. So here, as far as shipowners' taxation is concerned, a delicate negotiation is needed. We hope that the shipowners themselves will want to offer national reconstruction. Handle it thinly so that we can have a result in favour of the Greek public. To conclude, because there are too many issues in this bill, which we would need days to develop, I will say a few things that show the image of the position of the Central Association. We have put it positively, firstly, on the transposition of directives. On the issue of the Asian Bank, and here we are positive, and as we have said, eighteen countries of Europe are already participating, so sooner or later it should have happened. As far as the use of coupons is concerned, we have some questions, some minor reservations. Perhaps it needs further processing. As far as shipowners' taxation is concerned, I spoke a moment ago. Here too, there are many loopholes in favour of arbitrariness, in favour of arbitrary construction. We, as the Central Association, are not in favour of the logical demolition of everything, because I would like to remind you that the Greek state is responsible for this situation. The rules that had to be laid down for proper construction were not laid down at the time when they had to. So they were arbitrarily forced to build houses. Now we want a realistic solution. We want the public to be served, to have free access to the beaches, at the same time being able and to maintain the maximum amount of their property and those who were forced to disqualify themselves with responsibility, as I said, the Greek state. We now go to the rocky islands, on a very serious issue, which is of great concern to us. It is, of course, very positive because some rock islands and some deserted islands could at some point be 'grey' zones and requirements from the Turkish side, since they are certainly not resident by Greek citizens. But there should be some knowledge and some position of the General Staff, because some of them are a border region, they may have a role to play in the event of a military crisis, and we want them not to be given to anyone without control. We want at least 51% proved to be part of it and not as a strawman to be part of a Greek citizen, a Greek businessman. And, of course, there is a possibility of checking whenever this is requested and at least once a year by the public and general military staff, to know exactly what is being done by individuals on these rocky islands, which are the multitude of the "aircraft" of Greece. As far as the Holocaust Museum is concerned, we are positive about that. The images need to be maintained, even if they are shameful images, so that those that have happened do not be repeated. For the time being, we declare a reservation, we declare 'at present' and we will place it on the articles in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, forty students and students and three of their educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Nice Mytilini. Welcome to the House! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The list of rapporteurs and speakers has been completed. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Denkias, has the floor. Then we begin with colleagues, Mr Cameroon - Mr Georgiadis warned that he would delay a little - Mr. Karras, Mr. Germenis, Mr. Syntagakis. Of course, in the intervening period, the two parliamentary representatives of the opposition who have called for the floor, Mr Maniotis and Mr Poppas, are notifying the Bureau of when they want to speak. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, thank you. I intended to start with a wider debate on the economic situation in the country in general and also, with a debate on public order issues, as they have been highlighting in recent days. The presence of the State Secretary alone does not make me do it. We have a meeting tomorrow. I imagine that I will be given the opportunity to deal with this as well. I shall therefore confine myself today, as I am not used to and used to by any parliamentary representative, to the issues of this legislation. Madam Minister, I would like to point out that you are being sent here on mission, when there are trouble or when there is a suspicion of trouble. And I say it for this reason. This piece of legislation is an example of what will be taught - because they used to say 'will be taught', but unfortunately the list of learners has become so much that one year at the university is not enough - of how no one should legislate. Ladies and gentlemen, may I read you. Be careful what this piece of legislation contains. First of all, it contains issues relating to the Asian Infrastructure Bank. The title with this is on the way. Good. So we have the country's participation in an international bank. Part two concerns incorporation into the internal directive for the treatment of coupons as a means of compensation. The relativity of the two things is escaping me, but obviously someone is not escaping. Part Three does not have a single reading. He's got three different chapters. Chapter I of Part Three relates to the introduction of tax evasion rules, i.e. an amendment to the Code of Income Tax. This is a piece of legislation for the Asian Bank. Chapter II of Part Three has to do with European venture capital companies. The third Chapter of Part Three relates to the European Social Entrepreneurship Fund. As if this were not enough, let's go to the other chapter, Chapter IV, which is the most cute - I will come back to the end - which concerns the cavalry and the beach, embedded in a piece of legislation that starts with the Asian Bank, goes to the tax exemption, it is about the coupons. I mean, go get a leg here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u23	There's no competence?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u24	Of course there is authority. I don't disagree. But, if you'll excuse me, would you like me to say a few other responsibilities you have to co-legislate in the same text, have you missed something? As if the Hagialos were not enough, we go to Part Five, which starts with the Legal Council of the State, the debt-sharing of the public - this is Chapter I of Part Five - he goes to the concession of real estate to municipalities, Chapter III, he goes to HIS VIA, Chapter IV, in co-sponsored with the shipping community - this is a well-hide to us, and I will come back to it - and Chapter V, which concerns the OTAs and preventive control. Honestly, tell me, to your god - I beg your pardon for the expression - is it possible for these things to be done? Is it possible for these things to come sliding, french-ming, in a piece of legislation of sixty-seven articles? What serious debate is to take place in this sixty-seven articles, of which a very important part - I shall refer to the cavalry, where I will come back - has not even become a product of extensive consultation as a witness? As much as the conscientious, the serious, the diligent MP, the nation's wide-sighted representative to discuss in this Chamber the interest of the Greek citizen in such a piece of legislation, how can he speak? What's that supposed to mean? Where to start? Where does it end? Where does it end? What's to consider? What's to study? Is it possible for this legislation to come in this way? I shall refer to the promise to the shipowners' community, which I will comment on half a second. That's all he has an excuse why he came here. He came here to hide. I would remind you very well of the billions that were being launched in the Chamber - has already been said by a colleague from another party, Mr Koutsouko - to be collected by Prime Minister Tsipras. Here I think he had decided that he would collect 2-3 billion - what he had decided to collect - and now, just before the end of the government - slowly hidden in Chapter IV of Chapter IV of a Asian Bank law comes 'alou-lao'. I have to say that, of course, these things at first glorified us, now simply give rise to laughter. I should like to refer to the issue of the cauldron, which I consider to be extremely important. First of all, it is clear that the legislation on the Aegean and the beaches in a country like Greece - Greece has a coastline that is about equal to the coastline of Africa, if we add the coastline of the islands - is a huge power, a wealthy source. It is also a huge threat, if there is no proper, serious, studied protection of the environment, which is - to be honest - the main asset that the previous generations have inherited and which we must protect by protecting to be granted to the next generations. I ask you seriously: What provisions of this regulation in Articles 23 to 42 of this legislation, which starts on for the Asian Bank, shows you, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of party, that the seriousness shown here for these regulations which amend previous law is proportional to the seriousness of the matter? Is there something seriously, beyond the fact that the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which does not tell you about absolute care, of absolute rhyphetology, of absolute indifference to the environment, of absolute indifference to the national economy, of absolute indifference, of total indifference, of the seriousness of all of us who are here and are legislating here? Is there anything? Is it really possible to take such arrangements seriously? How does it start? This section of the legislation also follows the usual SYRIZA practice. Firstly, it comes without extensive consultation. Don't go all over Greece, I'll call Attica. At the moment in Attica is developing the plan to regenerate the coastal front, yes or no? It concerns the municipalities of Moschatos, Kallitheas, Faliros and the evolution of the city and the work of the Greek is about the municipalities of the Greek, Alimos, Glyfada and beyond that of the municipality of Varis - Vuliagmeni. These mayors of all this long series - I am not talking about the rest of Greece, which are also concerned and which are also interested - were called? The CEDEFOP was invited on the eve and, of course, it was not even able to attend. But, excuse me, all this here, how do they affect? How do the provisions on old cavalry affect? But let's go beyond that. The second common SYRIZA standard is that there are strict provisions at first reading and that the ruffles underneath pass a group. Raise thirty feet to fifty meters. You say that 60% of the area allocated must remain free. Set and intervals of two measures for access where the space is smaller. One reads these things and says 'Behold, a party which actually thinks about the environment, even on uneconomic terms, even if it puts it into question - because you are doing so - the survival of a number of professional groups, such as those who have umbrellas, etc.'. They've been told before. But be careful. Behind this is the complete indifference to the constitutional status of the country, the complete indifference to Article 24. Fully! You will allow me to say that I have a sensitivity to Article 24. As a new Member of Parliament in 2004, along with some others, the current President of the New Democracy, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, created uprisings in the efforts of the New Democracy at the time to change Article 24. We have always defended it consistently and constantly. But, here, to come to an understanding, what are you doing? You are going through general provisions and not specific ones, as is absolutely required by the Constitution and by the current case-law of the Council of State, the legalisation of arbitrary courts on the basis of general criteria. Yes or no, Minister? Is it or is it not generally the criteria? I warned you - you were not then - in 2016 when you passed the settlements. I've been telling you that these newly-novated terms that you're building in order to be able to make ruffles will not last for S.H.E. And the S.T.A. is coming. And it cancels your settlements. He'll cancel these too, because they don't stand. Come with serious provisions. We want to help, I've told you before. We're not oppositioning the opposition. But come with serious provisions to see what's going on. And it is not enough that you pass a provision to legitimize anything arbitrary exists with general limits, you do something much worse. Come to Article 34, verse 1b. Listen! If possible, ladies and gentlemen! It may be excluded from demolition, by way of derogation from any general or special provision, by decision of the Minister of Finance, projects built after 28 July.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u25	He's decommissioning. He's in law school.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u26	Oh, remove this. Excuse me, but if you remove it - and I must praise you for taking it away - you must remove the person who introduced it and send it to his home.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u27	In the municipalities?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u28	Did the municipalities introduce this? I beg your pardon, to understand the projects of national importance, so not local importance, have the municipalities introduced them here and have the municipalities given responsibility to the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u29	They're the city's demands.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u30	Now, Minister, I beg your pardon, we all have sufficient parliamentary experience here to smell the thick ruffles from a distance. This one's a fat rushphetti. It concerns specific cases. It gives the Minister of Finance a completely unconstitutional competence. I do not know in what words, I suspect that, in the projects of national importance and in the public interest and RES, Rushphetti is hiding somewhere, which will certainly not take place under the outcry, but here we are talking about fat and unconstitutional rushphetti. So please not only take the order off, but also take the one who has introduced the provision. This is a long resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by saying this to you every time, but you are not just listening to me, but you are making it worse. This government is approaching the limits of the constitutional length of its presence in power. Doesn't that mean for the last few weeks, do you want me to tell you two or three months? Let me tell you two - three months so that you don't get sad, it has to speed up the incredible rhysphetology, the incredible construction of inadmissible legislation, which they've been coming here and which they're only doing is for the opposition to say things like what I say and the Minister, or any minister who respects himself getting it back. It is the process of producing ruffles to stop at last. If there are serious issues to be discussed, bring them in. Nobody wants to trouble society. We all understand that entrepreneurship has spent extremely difficult days in the crisis. We all understand that Greek citizens have been extremely difficult. But it is a government, which, when there is a national disaster of a hundred dead in Eye, comes and confesses and indicates the arbitrary construction as a cause of the hundred victims, which is completely false - I have told you who is the fault of the hundred victims, but it is not that of the present - without respect for their memory. And then, it comes every little bit and a little bit with a bunch of provisions that not only the arbitraryness of the past are legalised, but also the arbitraryness of the future which is only recalled after the cries of the antipopulation are provided for. No, ladies and gentlemen, there are limits to everything! Honestly, I'm afraid you've gone far beyond it. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u31	First of all, Minister, I would like to ask you - because we started at 12 noon and are 14.30 minutes - for these legislative improvements. When will they be submitted? You saw that there was now a matter. Mr. Dendias was talking about something that you had already withdrawn. So is the other colleagues who will move to the step from here to here. I would therefore like you to present them as soon as possible so that they can be taken into account at least from now on. You, whenever you want, ask for the floor. The floor will now be taken by Mr. Kamatos, then is Mr. Karras, Mr. Germenis, Mr. Synthrakis, in between or Mr. Manitis or Mr. Pappas. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of twenty-nine students and students and three educational attendants from the 6th Elementary School of Stavroupolis of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Cameroon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Dendas, yes, we all see that the bill has a number of funds which may not have any direct link with each other, but it is, of course, the responsibility of the same Ministry. We have to do it and we will do it and then, because we have too many bills to bring. We have a lot of gaps to cover that you have created.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u33	However, I would remind you, Mr President, that the House has not had any work in this House for 15 days now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u34	Not even one! We were on vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u35	Everything has been explained, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u36	I'm sorry to interrupt, but don't give courage to any of the ministers of any government. For everyone, I'm saying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u37	From you especially any intervention is acceptable. I wanted to say that these are immediate arrangements that we need to make until October. Be careful, until October direct, because after October, in the second four years, we have too many areas to go through. And, because I have a responsibility for shipping and islands, you wait to see in the second four years the large areas that have to come for the ferry, the large areas and the spatial planning issues, which you know, you have done nothing. And, to get to the point, those who had not created a land register are now talking, they had not created a tariff, and they had left our country undisturbed. We did not have an institutional framework to safeguard the environment and we waited for the decisions of the Council of State to protect it. They're talking about the environment now! Do you know how I see it and how I describe it, ladies and gentlemen? That it is within the effort of the Right and others to break down, to strike, if you like, the moral advantage on the Left and on the subject of the environment. For as long as he was in the opposition and the Left had become renowned to the conscience of the world as the power that defended the environment, which was defending the worthyness of anti-corruption, which was in favour of a fair distribution of wealth, which was in favour of a social state, for all the things that the Left had conquered in the conscience of the people, those who ruled until then did not hurt them because it was enough to call on the Left that "may be good what they say, but they are inapplicable, they are not going to apply. They don't know how to rule. They say it because it is not for government." When the Left entered the government, then you got so hot, another squirrel began. One - one of the advantages of the Left is that you are trying to break it down for the social state, which appeared in these difficulties how much the Left Government has cared about, and for health and social welfare issues, for children with children's facilities, for the social income of solidarity and much that we could mention now, and for corruption that you are trying to convince everyone is the same. Can you not deal with the charges - charges, yes - for the corruption and the responsibilities you have and what are you trying to do? Clearance, say 'you and the Left' trying to clear what? Things that have nothing to do with it. But, to get into the bill, Mr President, because there are really a lot of funds, one could not be placed at all, and indeed at that time. I will concentrate on the issue that the Anti-Policy raised and did so on purpose, as I said before, to strike the advantage of the Left for the environment, the issue of the Ayalos and the beach. And what we didn't hear about this bill! Of course, we are separating serious interventions and goodwill, which most of them, not all, have been accepted by the State Secretary. They come and law-abiding ones, and the committees have been discussed. A number of amendments have already been made. I'll only talk about the bad guys. What did it sound like before Mr. Dendia? That they are arbitrarily legitimized and read an article of Article 34, which the Minister said was amended or withdrawn, and the reason is that there are no grounds for saying what is being said. On the substance of the matter, there is neither a problem nor a problem, because it is clearly stated in the same article below that these licenses and not legalisations which can be given are for the granting of the use of the saint, which has not been done so far, and that is why everything that has been done was arbitrary, all the public networks, biological cleansing, or private fish farms, or the shipyards, because there was no concession of the saint. The bill is coming to order, and we are talking about legitimisation, and clearly, I repeat, below the text read by Mr. Dendias says that "they are excluded from this licence clearly hotels, residences, health stores", that is, everything concerning private individuals. And only the things we said before are cleared. Isn't that a class that comes in? Why didn't there be immunity so far and no one gets permission for what he did to the cavalry? And while the bill comes to tighten the rules and the concession of the use of the beach for various uses comes some and blame the bill for the opposite. Until what did they say? It's falling, he says, the distance of the buildings from the cavalry. I have some cases, Madam Minister, of authors who even present maps to convince us that the distance is falling. Here too, we have heard the backwards, of course, that the distance is increasing and that the conditions are being stricted. What did we hear? That beaches are buzzing! They wrote that too. That private ports are legalized. Umbrellas to the wave! And we see the opposite happens. And Mr. Dendias admitted in his initial position that these rules appear to be strict first, that is to say, that the distances from the beach of umbrellas are increasing, that is, distances between concessions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude soon, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u38	You have a small tolerance, like all of you, one or two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u39	I'll be right over. On the other hand, what did he say to us? That behind them hides ruffles. Look who's talking about ruffles! Those who had this status of immunity will deliberately depend on where someone will have umbrellas and where they do not have or where they will be arbitrary without anyone bothering him or he will be touched by every prefect, by every prefect, by every district officer and finally by the respective minister. On the contrary, what the bill does now is? It sets rules so that any work, any activity on the beach, determine how and under which terms it will be licensed. I repeat, Mr President, that if he talks about permits, it is for projects of public interest, national interest, which need to be settled, so that he is not in the air. We are talking about networks, even some roads on the beach. Not everyone will be licensed. It sets out the conditions under which. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, the effort of the Right and of all the others, of the poor people, who want to harm this advantage of the Left, of environmental protection policy, also comes to light. Mr President, I am ending very briefly with this because we have had a debate on the Dodecanese, on the twelve-point lane. For the purpose of establishing a sayalou and beach in Dodecanese, an Italian property regulation applies, because we have Rhodes - Kos - Leros, which imposes 12 meters on the line of Agialou and the beach. That is to say, it is increasing by 12 metres. That's very right, because it still protects the cavalry and the beach. But in his general arrangement he has created some problems, especially in legal, very old buildings. To give you a characteristic example, I will tell you that there are stone towers of the 14th and 15th century, which, because they are on the wave, are considered arbitrary and cannot even be legalised. But, even if they're legal, why should they be? There must be an exception, therefore, that where there is a register in the Dodecanese, these twelve measures may not apply exactly to the dimensions of the units of buildings. Because in the register they're registered as building portions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u40	Not only where there is a register in the Dodecanese, but wherever there is a register there are similar things. That's what we have in my country, Andros.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u41	That is not the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u42	No, that's also true in the Cyclades. We're moving on with Mr. Carras. The Parliamentary spokesman for the Golden Dawn, Mr Pappas, has then asked for the floor. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for seven minutes, with a little tolerance too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, let me go back ten years in 2009, when Mr Tsipras was a member of the Anti-Population Committee and was fighting for the right of the people. What were the laws of the people? Through parliamentary control it attempted to meet locally serious demands, which the revolver at the time did not satisfy. So I have before me a question from Mr Tsipras saying: 'Proposal for a rehabilitation of Scaramaga coast'. He sought to release part of the land of the Scaramaga Shipyards, namely the old agialos and to be attributed to the use of the inhabitants of western Athens and the Municipality of Haidari, where he is administratively subject. So the current Prime Minister has received the answer from the Ministry of Finance, PASOK, to a government, that the request for the area to be restored to another use is conditional on the operation of the shipyards. It must be said that, as far as is necessary in the shipyards, it will remain in the shipyard. That's reasonable. [[At this point the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios GEORGIADIS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We are now coming, however, where, at the initiative of the Government, the Scaramaga Shipyards have been put under special liquidation, the divestment is on the way and, at the same time, this land, the old saint, has been attributed to the public. I have here the evidence according to which it was delivered to the public. So the public took over and what did he do? Did he give it to the residents, as the current Prime Minister had requested? Did she give it to public use for public service purposes? Oh, no. He did the self-evident thing the SYRIZA government did all the time. She handed it over to the Real Estate Company, incorporated it into the guaranteed public property and from there on, of course, her fate is ignored, how it will be managed, whether it will be managed for only the purpose of collecting revenues or whether the sale will be the case. They haven't explained that yet. I would therefore like to say, Mr President, that in the Minutes Mr Tsipras' question with the replies of the ministries, the release from the public of the land and the performance of the land in the Public Property Company, which is at the Supreme Court. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Knowing this history about four months ago, Mr President, and receiving requests from the inhabitants of western Athens, I submitted to the Finance Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, a question: is there still the government's commitment to performance or being abandoned? Will she also be given to the Supreme Court? I would like to quote here, Mr President. Didn't the Overseas Dance? He was awarded ten thousand tenths of properties in June 2018 with an Act, uno acto that we lawyers say, for which of course dozens of questions and my own and Mr Koutsoukos and Mr Manatis and all the factions have been made and have not been answered to this day. Didn't the Overseas Dance? Didn't he get guarantees? Looks like he didn't. So I asked on 30 November 2018 a question with this content. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Will the area be given to the Supreme Court, or will the inhabitants be given? Common use. It is an area, which is neither part of the special liquidation process of the Scaramaga Shipyards, for which the State has moved on to divestment by subdivision. It does not belong to the property of the shipyard, to say we are wronging a private company at the bottom. The public, therefore, claimed this area, categorised it as a public area, enrolled it in the land register with a number of public property books and attributed it to the EBRD. So I tell you today that I asked for an answer from November 30, 2018. Of course, I will give another parentheses, Mr President. Mr. Tsakalotos does not come to the House. I have another question, which has been postponed 12 times because of a workload of the Minister. Twelve consecutive Mondays will be postponed! He had the object of rendering another common space, the territory of the children of Agia Barbara in the Supreme Court, but it is not at this moment. So after I see that the government grants municipalities, when it has requests - and we have two articles in this bill, for Kalamata and Kosani, if I'm not mistaken - I put a question and what am I saying? Do at least what was in existence, that is to say the commitment of the then Deputy Officer of Police and, today, Prime Minister, to proceed with the concession. In fact, I am going further, Mr President, and I say this: it is very simple to withdraw the concession from the EBRD, to return to the public, and I do not ask, as I have a request from the inhabitants, for it to be delivered to ownership, but for it to be similar in use or for it to be granted without consideration to the Municipality of Heidari. It's a common request from West Athens. I have to remind you geographically - and my colleague knows - that there is no access to the sea at this point. They're the Navy facilities, they're the shipyards, and we have exclusions. We're talking about bandages, the beach front of Faliro, etc. These people there don't have any value? Shouldn't we help them? Should we not give them what they deserve, access to the sea, use, so that they too can have a recreation? Looks like they can't. After that, I have tabled a relevant amendment and I am waiting for the government's response if it will go back to the state and to the municipality. It is only a matter of time, but unfortunately, to say it, Mr President, radio silence. As in all the cases we transferred to the Supreme Court, we guaranteed loans with public property, but we also had to take account of the needs of the people and society. Let me remind you, then, when the government found that it had also granted archaeological properties, it withdrew it. I remind you of the Minister of Finance's decision on 20 January. Therefore, there is a precedent, there is a procedure to withdraw this and to be attributed. I therefore strongly request that, Minister, this matter be resolved. You will see, if you are aware of the practices I have put forward, Mr. Tsipras' commitment. Unless the commitments made by the opposition were definitively deleted and today the only commitment we have is to serve the debt and creditors. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Poppas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u45	A multi-legislative bill, which should normally have been voted on by another procedure and not accumulated in a multi-legislative draft, has been introduced to this House today. The bill we are discussing includes issues that are not related to each other, and this, unfortunately, is a constant tactic followed by the 'first time left', the SYRIZA Government. And to be fair, the SYRIZA Government follows the same practice as the previous government, the Government of New Democracy. And I make the prediction that we will have the same with the next government. And so, New Democracy and SYRIZA or SYRIZA and New Democracy prove for once that these two different facets of the "constitutional arch" are the two different sides of this coin. In this respect, with regard to the Asian Infrastructure and Investment Bank, which is the first part of the plan, our analysis and reflection is that it serves our country, if it serves our country, our participation and membership of this bank. The Asian bank with a ‘private’ Chinese capital of $50 billion is considered the competitive bank of the World Bank and Asian Development Bank, i.e. the two largest international creditors in the Asian region. It is therefore an economic structure which competes with some other economic structures. It is, on the other hand, a Chinese penetration into Europe and as such it should be dealt with. It must be seen as an overall economic intervention. It was also stressed by government actors in the past that Greece's participation in the bank gives it another financial weapon for possible investments coming from China rather than just. These are investments which, I would say, are permanently characterised by a middle-aged worker and, in the end, by what are the national benefits. So it's not that simple or simple, if you want. The issue touches wider, more general geostrategic designs of the economic and military powerful countries of the planet. China's intention to expand the overall economic influence is known. China, as we know, is the first in size - after the United States - a global economy and what the bank shows is developing and will develop into a central lever of Chinese economic diplomacy, not only in the wider region of Asia and the Pacific, but also in the European area. The United States, as we know, is facing the bank rather negatively, expressing various doubts and concerns. It should also be stressed at this point that George Soros and his well-known structures never treated the creation of this bank positively. The International Monetary Fund did the same. Therefore, apart from any economic analysis, these parameters must be taken into account in a national foreign policy and not in the characteristic left-hand way that distinguishes you, that is, sloppiness and legislation. As far as the second part of the bill is concerned, we have a harmonisation of the VAT Code with the EU directive 2016/1065. We have another adjustment to data that in practice does not have any effect, except that the financial problems of the Greeks are increased. It is only because we are dealing with a directive of the European Union, which we must obey essentially for that reason alone, that we are negative and we are voting against. The same applies to the third part, in which we have changes in income tax. And here we have another adaptation of internal legislation due to European directives, which, I repeat, seems to us to be against. I will, however, stand by more than the fourth part of the bill, in which we actually have a bill on its own. Another analysis we have here of "what is a hayalus?", of "what is a beach?" with the ultimate aim and aim of legalising arbitrary to the sea and the beach. The question with two words is: The Government, in its friendly tactics, introduces two articles that strengthen the protection of the environment and create problems of national security in the Aegean Sea. How is that possible? The problem has to do with Article 34, with which the government promotes mass legitimisation of arbitrary citizens by means of a ministerial decision. It is obvious that this regulation is an election and is a hopeless and fatal one, I would say, an attempt to support it in the forthcoming elections, the interests that will benefit from this article. However, this action is also an extra 'narrow' in the environment, as the WWF committee has shown, in order to inform Members of the major problems of government arbitrariness. In Article 36, however, which consists of a, I would say, dangerous legislation on the part of the left government, we have that it stipulates that this article will no longer have a reason for the Navy General Staff on the granting of islands and rock islands to individuals for any use. Such an action is incomprehensible, first and foremost, and the government does not justify it. It introduces serious and obvious risks to the national security of the country. On the major national issue, and not just on this issue, we will stress that we have the wound of Macedonia, the betrayal of our Macedonia, and therefore we consider that these provisions are a well-designed front, so that the bourgeois of Haul can open up in the Aegean and then escape anti-national winds. There is no safeguard as to what kind of investment is allowed and what funds, from what funds, thereby leaving the possibility of an economic invasion with ultimate purposes from the known and constantly hostile and provocative Turks. The ecological dimension is also important. In a modern state, the ecological rules for environmental protection should not be laid down in investment, but, instead, this draft law should be abolished. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is not astonished by its vulnerability and obsession. But, finally, there are limits! You proceed to further legalisation and exemption from demolition of all arbitrary and arbitrary manufactured after July 28, 2011. If these are brought by a left-wing government, which is supposed to have environmental sensitivities, ecological concerns, etc., what will follow in the future? So the bill for the Ayalo opens wide opens the door for mass legitimacy of all illegality on the beach and within the sea. You are actually giving to various business interests of hayals, beaches, arbitrary legalize to the hayals, you grant coastlines for research, for oil extraction, gas, ship repair bases, etc. I repeat that there is also this dangerous provision which excludes the opinion that has been in force so far by the General Staff of Navy. With all the things you're doing, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, where are you looking? What do you want? Would you like a new Prespecies Agreement and for the Aegean? What you're doing is extremely dangerous. It will cause serious problems and national risks. Finally, Mr President, I would like to stand by Rule 45 for a moment. You know, it's what's changing the interest. The state will no longer pay 6% for its private debts, but 3%. In other words, you are tiring the state's debt to private individuals. On the contrary, the government considers it reasonable to give a 50% discount to the state when it is late, but to remain at 8.76%, i.e. three times what the public gives, while plundering wages, pensions, PPC accounts, takes the houses of the Greeks. It is actually tiring up its public debts to Greek citizens, as well as to businesses. Instead of the government doing this to the International Monetary Fund, it is down to several billion in the International Monetary Fund of EUR 4 to 5 billion, which is a 5% euro. In other words, Mr Tsakalotes, you are exhausted by Article 45 of your flaws to Greek citizens. In Part Five we have granted real estate to municipalities - we are talking about the Municipality of Kalamata and the Municipality of Kozani - but we also have issues of contributions to shipping companies. We have the promise between the Greek public and the shipping community. These are issues which, I repeat, should be part of a separate bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, will you give me a moment, please? What do we got? On the one hand, the new promise now becomes a permanent payment of 10% of the imported dividends of the members of the Greek Shipowners' Association. Based on the amount of the declared dividends in recent years, the amount to be contributed to the public funds will be at least EUR 75 million per annum. On the other hand, shipowners will voluntarily and indefinitely offer 10% of the imported dividends of natural persons, but it is not possible to calculate what this 10% corresponds to, but what natural persons may be, because they are anonymous companies. And finally, it's not clear if it's 75 million or if it's 40 million. The money, in other words, is very little in terms of shipowners' profits and there is a concern about whether it is ensured that they will eventually be paid. We also remember the Prime Minister's earlier announcement that Greek shipowners would make a contribution either on the basis of their income or on the basis of the capacity of their ships. In fact, there had been a government and shipowner agreement since July 2013 with a calculation of EUR 420 million over three years. But we never found out which companies participated and what money the Greek public took. In conclusion, once again that it is unacceptable how you bring these matters to the vote, we are voting against the principle. We stress that the protection of the coasts and of the hayalus is not a field of political dissent and is a matter for all of us, all Greek patriots, who the government of the "first time left" persecuted and persecuted and the Civic Response is abusive with the unlikely ethnic candidates who frame it, such as undocumented Professor Cairides. Our seas, our coastlines, our environment is our homeland. This country, along with the Greek patriots, defends and will defend the nationalist movement to the end. Now Golden Dawn, now national resistance, now we'll get our homeland back. Finally, I say: Macedonia is one and it is Greek!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Mr. Germenis from the People's Association - Golden Dawn has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Even in the last moments of your political life, you have tried in every way to secure your political survival and pay bills, bringing to the House laws that you have not been able to bring in for the last four years. Your main purpose is to satisfy interests and through them to win some votes, to give yourself to loots and scams, in exchange for their support. The government wants to be useful and convenient to those puppet citizens of ours, who are unfortunately not few, and who in the last fifty years have been building everything where they could, and built their homes, villas, hotels and businesses, not just on the wave, but even on the sea. Now that the real estate is no longer owned by the Greek State, but has been given a dowry for over a hundred years to the international loan sharks and international cords, your government comes with today's bill and opens, not just a small window, but a whole door to the mass legalisation of the arbitrary, which for many decades were built on the saints and on the beaches without any of the people responsible for bothering them. In particular, Article 34 states: ‘Works built until 28 August 2011 on the Aegean Sea, the beach, the bank, the coastal zone, the water element, the seabed and the subsoil, the lagoon, the lake and the riverbed without a decision to grant the use, irrespective of the adoption of a demolition protocol until the entry into force of the draft law, may be authorised by reasoned decision of the Ministry of Finance’. What does this article say? It now opens the way to destroying our beaches. This is a crime on the ground, which will have incalculable consequences, which we will see exactly the next day and the next few years. This prediction is not only the 'bad fascists', as you are calling us. The same and worse provision is made for WWF, the world-famous organisation for environmental protection, which, of course, cannot be described as extreme or fascist. It says, therefore, WWF says that "For the third time since 2014, we have been confronted with one, it seems, specified exposing crime of the Greek cavalry and the beautiful beaches of our country." It characterises the bill as dangerous and requires the immediate withdrawal of the unacceptable provisions, as it describes them. And while the government under Article 34 opens the anchor of Halos for the beaches and coastlines, it unfortunately does not stop and is also swallowed into the rocky islands, now creating issues that are directly related to our national security and our national sovereignty. So in accordance with Article 36, what do you say? The use of islands, rock islands, reefs, snipers and shallow marine areas, as well as the continuous hayalos and the beach for the purpose of agricultural, livestock, fisheries, aquaculture, tourists, energy, etc., is authorised. It should be noted that according to the legislation in force, he had to give permission and the General Staff of the Navy. Now, with this proposed provision, you can bypass that too. The most important thing about this dangerous provision, however, is our national security and the fact that there is no security in this article, which prevents the participation of unwilling interests and, more specifically, the participation of pro-Turkish or Turkish interests in the corporate vehicles to which their use will be granted, the exploitation of rock islands, because no one can guarantee us that these rock islands, when they come out tomorrow, will not come out in auctions to get them privately, will not come out of Turkish Muslim funds to get them. We must not forget in any way that these rock islands are Greek soil and Greek land, just as much as the soil on which we are currently stepping here, here, this place. And that is precisely why the total lack of any relevant provision and insurance margins is causing us concern. How can we not be concerned when you signed the treacherous Prespecies Agreement when you sold all Macedonia? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] You will allow me, Mr President, to have a few more minutes, such as the speaker of the SYRIZA just spoke ten minutes ago. You sold out all Macedonia, on the rocky islands will you stick? We are, of course, addressing those in this Chamber who still have some national concerns, but also the Greek people who are listening to us. But, of course, who should I refer to? To the Neo-Democrats - whom I certainly do not see here at the moment - who put on their Europa book some types of flower, such as Dimitris Ceridis, who called the Greek descendants of the Ottomans? It does, of course, deny the genocide of the Pontius. We from this step tell you that we are descendants of those who expelled the Ottomans. Really, where are these New Democrats in New Democracy taking their ears to such strange guys, like this Courides? You just don't exist. You've done all this for buffaloes. In fact, when your President chose to put such people in his Eurovoc, none of you so-called Macedonians who ran out here at the symposiums did not go to his ear. In conclusion, I would like to say that for us Greek nationalists of the Golden Dawn our love for the homeland and the interests of the people lies above all investment and of every purpose. The oath of the ancient Greeks, thousands of years later, remains opportune as long as it is ever before and is above every Greek and harmful to our country's bill: "The country I deliver no less."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. Immediately after that, Mrs. Megalonikou will be given the floor by SYRIZA and the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Association, Mr. Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. The government of SYRIZA is willing to satisfy all anti-grassroots designs and outstanding assumptions about large tourist, logistics and energy capital just before the elections. With our fresh memory the recent disasters in Mandra, in Eye Attica, in Crete, with dozens of our dead people, the government dares by setting the fourth chapter of this draft law to commit another major crime against the nature, environment and man himself. Before I enter the substance of the draft law, however, let me turn to the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Members, which provides for relief measures for wives and relatives of the five Cretans who lost their lives in the recent fatal floods in Crete. The JRC will vote for it, but their own people will not return. What is envisaged in the amendment is a drop in the ocean in the face of such a family tragedy and in the face of the whole of biblical catastrophe, for which absolutely nothing is mentioned, proving that Crete is also powerless of flooding projects. It was only a matter of time before bridges were broken, the labors of life lost and, above all, human lives. You knew it. We, as a JRC, warned you here, in this House, to indicate the dangerous areas of Crete before the disaster that were finally hit and you struck us when we told you. It was a crime you committed and you're all responsible for. Crime is timeless. Today, SYRIZA, yesterday the New Democracy and the PASOK, and if the people don't send you and your policy, the district managers and the mayors that you base on the timeline of history, there will also be constant crimes. But you didn't even have the emorality to apologize. To avoid your responsibilities, you have blamed each other on your responsibilities, applying the same policy that puts people's needs aside. That is why the people must punish you, condemning your crime policy. From here the Step directly calls on you to rehabilitate all damages for all of Crete and to compensate all those affected in 100% of the damage, in houses, greenhouses, plant and animal production, in cars. Secondly, to restore the whole road network, the northern road, the provincial and rural roads. Thirdly, they should freeze debts to taxes, to the OAU, to the banks. To stop any confiscation procedures immediately, to get rid of municipal fees. There should be no water, electricity, and telephone stops to the workers and people's families with debts. To develop and finance anti-military, anti-nuclear and anti-Semitism projects now by building new modern technical projects that meet all the needs with the responsibility of the state, so as not to mourn other victims. But as long as you want to stink at the deaf door. Without any sign of hesitation, the government in this draft law continues, as I said before, the crime, by handing over to the plate of the investment colossal industry, tourism, renewable energy, transport and networks, the saints, the beaches, rivers, lakes, lagoons, to promote their biscuits and profitability. They are arrangements that come as a follow-up to the 2001 PASOK Act, on the legal status governing the sanctuary and the beach, the law and the amendment that had been adopted in April 2017 in the draft law on forest maps, according to which it granted in fast track procedures and for three years uses of Aegean, beach, bank and coastal zone, large lakes and rivers to business groups. Now it modifies the worse of the above laws, enforcing even more the right of future investors to build literally on the wave. No benefit will have the popular layers. Their access to the beaches is further restricted, which they will certainly see with the chalk. In Attiki, Crete, in other tourist areas of the country, the prospect of exploiting the coastal fronts of the Riviera type presupposes numerous business activities, including those that have been characterised by tourist public estates in fillets, with direct concession to the use of sanctuaries and beaches. Allows the sale of islands, rock islands, sanctuaries and beaches, sensitive ecosystems, while erasing all the illegal and arbitrary capital on the wave, while strengthening the municipalities in a role as a mediator for the sale of sanctuary to large-scale investors and legitimising arbitrary tourist facilities on the old cavalry. What, then, were the governments taught? What has the current SYRIZA government learned from the recent disasters, the causes of which are in the same policy as empowering beaches, hayalus, rivers and lakes to private individuals today? She doesn't want to be taught? They serve the big chapter. The fair development of SYRIZA, the sustainable development of the New Democracy, the friendly climate in the entrepreneurship that you all enjoy, concerns the privileges, tax facilities and the direct delivery of beaches and sanctuaries to the big business tourism. That is why we congratulate the Association of Greek Industrialists and the New Democracy welcomes you to the way she thinks, as Mrs Bakoyannis said in committee. There is the popular prophetic saying "show me your friends, to tell you who you are". Only in the last few years, with all the governments, were the capitalists of the tourism with measures such as privatizations of tourist loins in the Greek, Afantos of Rhodes, the Toplou Monastery of Sitia, fourteen regional airports, ten ports of the country, the sale of loins such as Xenia, the favourable taxation of tourist properties such as HNPIA, the preferential treatment of arbitrary construction of major tourist structures, the reduced municipal fees of tourist farms and the wealthy subsidies through the NSRPs. The JRC, like the elected and voters of popular symbols in municipalities and regions, strive to cancel all laws that make and bind beaches, saints, rivers, lakes, lakes, the country's water wealth. The forests, the beaches, the saints, the mountains constitute popular state property. Make the infrastructure, camps, free camps and ensure the right to vacation and recreation for the people, young people, people with disabilities. All of this is just a few reasons why the people have, taking advantage of the forthcoming elections, to give them their bucket in hand and send them to another beach, strengthening the KKE in all of the elections. To conclude, Mr President, let me say this: Amendment No 2089 and Amendment No 278 refer to three articles. If it goes to all of these three articles, we vote against. We do not, however, exclude the first article on the amendment on tick and tick, where we are voting on it separately. Recently, the Government has caused justified reactions from small and medium-sized producers of ticks and ticks as a whole with the circular of the ADI, which force them within a suffocatingly short period of time to the ticks they hold as a remuneration during the distillation process. It is now coming from an election to put a so-called solution to the problem. The amendment is tabled by the vote and is of a temporary nature, as it extends the arrangements for the disposal of stocks for just one year. It is solely aimed at reducing the reactions to the government's policy that promotes the direction of the European Union and the industrialists to equate taxation paid by small farmers and cotton farmers with that paid by the industrialists. A taxation that is transported to consumption and will lead to the disappearance of traditional distillation by two-day milk producers and small farmers, while favouring the water-industrials. The JRC is calling for the possibility of the stocks being released indefinitely, that all the obstacles which the government is trying to put back and that the regime should be restored as it was before the Government's interventions trying to make difficulties. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. Ms. Big Economics from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill moves towards the objectives set by the government at the outset, namely to take substantial measures for the economy, development, elimination of the illegality and addressing the chronic problems that have led to the repetition of arbitrariness. First of all, an important agreement on Greece's participation in the international financial institution 'Asia Bank for Infrastructure and Investment' is being ratified, which paves the way for the development of beneficial cooperation for the Greek economy in the field of infrastructure, telecommunications and energy. This agency is a multilateral development bank with a major share capital of 100 billion dollars, in which nineteen Member States are already members of the European Union. This cooperation will help to promote relations with other multilateral and bilateral organisations and will be another financial weapon for the financial support of high-value investment projects in our country, always looking at the main issue, namely the recovery of our economy, through growth. This agreement, combined with the creation of a development bank, will pave the way for significant investments and stimulate, in general, business activity in our country. I would also like to add that this bill solves years of problems and deals more effectively with issues relating to the application of the legislation on the sea, the beach and the other common and off-trading matters. In our country, which is a particular natural beauty, but also a lever for the development of our national economy, it is necessary to balance between the protection and preservation of the natural environment and the development of an economic activity, without affecting and limiting the citizens to the exercise of their rights to enjoy common things. Thus, this draft law gives the necessary definitions of these common things in order to ensure that there are no ambiguities and clear definitions of uses so that there is, on the one hand, no room for circumvention and arbitrage, the adverse effects of which are unfortunately visible and, on the other, mild forms of economic activity can be developed. At the same time, the problem of homogeneity is solved and the granting of use is arranged by establishing a strict framework to eliminate the phenomenon of over-use and the public is not prevented from using many of the coastlines of our country. In addition, other issues, such as the realisation of the necessary projects, and the development of many forms of economic activity in these areas, in the light of sustainable development, are resolved by setting out all necessary permits with strict conditions and by taking measures aimed at combating so far the arbitrary effects which, in many cases, have on the environment. Finally, the setting-up of a secondary committee to define the boundaries of the saint, the beach and the old hayaloo will help to resolve quickly the relevant issues that may arise with the possibility of bringing actions against it without having to resort to the Council of State any longer. Another particularly important point of this bill is the ratification of the new symposium between the Greek public and the shipping community. This defines the framework whereby 10% of the maritime dividends imported into Greece will be paid. The importance of this agreement arises from the share of the shipownership, which exceeds 96% of the Greek fleet managed by Greece, with a view to its absolute and universal coverage. This promise, combined with the contribution for shipping companies, will make a significant contribution to the Greek economy, since it is estimated that there will be an annual revenue of EUR 40 million. Finally, further arrangements are provided for the purpose of collecting revenues for the benefit of the Greek State. One of these is the uniform method of calculating the interest due on the basis of the applicable interest rate of the European Central Bank. In this way, a uniform treatment of debts will be achieved by ensuring the relative budgetary equilibrium in accordance with the Constitution, since it has been decided that any differentiation in public debt with those of private individuals is not contrary to the relevant provisions of the Constitution. The aim of this government is to lay the foundations for the creation of an environment of stability in the economy, in order to achieve a well-considered recovery and to leave behind the unfavourable economic situation, in which the policy of all the previous governments has led to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-five Dutch students and three educational attendants from Christelijk Lyceum Veendaal. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Maniotis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence, has been speaking for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. As usual, the parliamentary representative, colleagues and colleagues, devotes much of his speech to the current context. So I shall begin with the second part of my speech for Rule 34. Today we are in front of a piece of legislation of a government which is in collapse, with a climax of its internal contradictions. The government is in a desperate position and Mr Tsipras is in despair in the face of his certain collapse in the next elections. They failed all SYRIZA's narratives of supposedly development launch. He failed every attempt to break down the Opposition with the Presidencies' Agreement. The widespread attempt to build supposedly progressive bridges failed because of a lack of materials, but also because of damaged materials. Every effort of politics, but also of popular revival, is inhabited in its inexperience and toxicity. So you have found the last refuge in the policy of mud and slashing your political opponents. Do you know what that means, ladies and gentlemen? It means that you have been defeated politically, ideologically, historically, morally and aesthetically. You've been defeated at all levels. You have no arguments. Your ideas and practices have been isolated and you are in constant marginalization by the people. You are becoming increasingly unreliable political and social and it is no coincidence that the basic popular feeling is "go away". As far as the course of the progressive space, which you and your perpetrators recently have been calling for, you must know a very simple historical truth: The depth of the damage you have done to society with what you falsely and demagogically promised is directly commensurate with the depth of the deterioration that you have brought to the progressive process. You have invoked her values and visions. Alexis Tsipras portrays personally and politically without shame the emblematic personality of Andreas Papandreou. Even green SYRIZA, we'll see. We have a misfamiliar pantomime of an unrecognised and inappropriately supposed engineer of the Polytechnic University, but who does not know what the 30 thousand Greek engineers and high school students know. Mr. Tsipras, supposedly engineer, does not know that the three hundred sixty degrees are in the same direction and not in the opposite direction he thought. We have a malicious performance that you supposedly are the perpetrators of the modern democratic progressive party. You don't care how you hurt her irreparably and disperse her historically and politically with your practices. We, the Change Movement, are proud of the country's total offer of PASOK to twenty years of governance. Are you, for the five years of your own rule, proud? You're not proud, because you're ashamed of hiding behind the burglar of the supposedly progressive alliance. You're trying to hide your mistakes. Try with this so-called progressive alliance to rely on the officials of the Karamanli right, the extreme right of Kammenos and the remains of Akis with Polakises, with Petsites, with Rasputin and other political relatives, who are your political, natural ally and partner. With the Prespes you have destroyed the entire structure of progressive patriotism, a progressive patriotism built by Andreas Papandreou. You are also projecting it as a modular between conservative and progression. We, therefore, with the democratic citizens who have withstanded the hardships, who have defended people, democracy and society on our own, when together with the upper and lower squares, supposedly outraged with chrysayites, we are told that a progressive movement without a patriotic dimension does not exist. You ask yourself why the far right flanks, which, in fact, you are supposed to fight. But the extreme right flies because you underestimated and denounced the national feeling and patriotic attitude of our people. You denounced it as far-right. The extreme right flanks, because you with your policy are the golden sponsors of the Golden Dawn. We at the Change Movement will manage after the elections with patriotic responsibility the third investigative mandate. You're talking about a moral advantage, but it's your prolongation that gives birth to and hides the scandals of DEPA, Triasios, Airport. You are talking about socialism and you have tampered with Madour, which leads to starvation of his people and who murders protesting citizens. You talk about democracy and your only concern is how to manipulate it and how to control the institutions to hit your political opponents and that is through the Stalinist concept "we have the government, we do not have the power". That's the Stalinism. You are violating justice every day, you are insulting common sense with the immoral ridicule of the "NOVARTIS". Andreas Loverdes and all of us are telling you - and put it right in your mind - that your crimes against democratic civilization, against the future of our country, will not be allowed to be registered. In five years you have dismantled and dispersed any concept of progression politically and socially, with a leading example of your strategic and government alliance with extreme right-wing populism, which you supposedly want to fight today, but also from which you do not want to be weaned. The extreme right-wing Ambrosios, the far right-wing Royal Death, the votes of the Golden Dawn, which are not bothering you, are your supports. And take the news again: Political history will record your governance as a progressive abortion, as a progressive deficit in the governance of the place, will identify you with a critical period of political deterioration and ideological unreliability of the progressive movement, in today's difficult conditions for the progressive movement. And with the rapid counterattack of the conservative space the burden of reconstructing and restoring the new progression passes through the electoral empowerment of the Change Movement. In order for there to be an upgraded progressive movement in the country, we must consistently and continuously run the path of the strategic defeat of SYRIZA with the parallel strategic victory of the Change Movement. This is today the only policy of progressive reconstitution. The Change Movement is a birth of PASOK, which has denounced and made great the progressive party, a fact that we will not allow SYRIZA to deport and divide. The progressive world with its vote in the next election will make the Movement of Change ruler, opening a new page in the political history of the country. And we will not allow abortions to be tabled, such as what we have in front of us today. But before I tell you what you are doing now, I would like to remind you what you have done since the first day you took over the country's governance. The Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Nikos Voutsis, date 27-2-2015 - nor twenty days were you - send a document to everyone: "Primary postponement of a demolition order for the 18-2" - for the next day - and says the Minister of Interior of "the first time left": "Please temporarily postpone demolition in the area of Rafina Perimeters, to examine the claims of the alleged owner of the main Tades". I put it in the Minutes, so we can know who everyone is. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we've got it all the time. In November 2015, an amendment comes from the relevant interior ministers, Panagiotis Kourublis - the favorite of the extreme right Ambrosios - and the Deputy Environment Ioannis Tsironis to suspend the demolition of arbitrarily, even after final judicial decisions. We are intervening and we are told by Mr Tsironi - it is written in the Minutes - that he withdraws it at the request of Mr Tsipras, and with the same mandate he will table it in a further bill. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because we are not all the same, I would like to tell you what we were doing and you are listening to all the SYRIZA colleagues: In June 2014 at L.4269 Article 11(1): "until 2020 all the relevant ministries will be able to digit and record all their institutional lines of responsibility." Agialos and the beach are an institutional line of responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. In 2014, then, we recorded this decision. And the institutional lines are recorded in a central database of the Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change. These are us for the protection of the environment, the Ayalos and the beach. I'm filing it in the Minutes. And that's not all that's done. We also gave a mandate to become the first pilot to the digital line system in all of Greece. And here is the first pilot map built for seventeen levels of institutional lines for the whole Kozani Prefecture. I'm filing it in the Minutes. And what does SYRIZA come to do? On 23-12-2016, we have Article 14 of Law 4447: “After the entry into force of that Law, Articles 1 to 13 of Law 4269 are repealed.” The article I mentioned to you about the obligation by 2020 to have all the institutional lines is Article 11. From 1, then, until 13, the SYRIZA Government abolishes the obligation of all ministries and all public services to register the country's digital institutional lines in a single system. And the troika insists that a bill be filed, like what is now being tabled. Our rapporteur, Yiannis Koutsoukos, told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Maniotis, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u55	And here is the official press release that he signed as the Minister for the Environment, refusing to sign what is now signed by SYRIZA Ministers, including Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Stathakis and many other supposedly sensitive protectors of the environment. And I say in the official press release: "The environmental protection of the Greek coast does not require any special bill for sanctuary and beach." I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Maniotis, you've reached fifteen minutes. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u57	I shall conclude, Mr President. And now where are we? Because what we're asking SYRIZA isn't to make anything good. That's what we've decided it's never gonna happen. The point is that they don't ruin everything good they found. So, what have we handed over to you, Minister, that you have the misfortune to defend a disastrous bill? So we delivered you for the Aegean and the beach complete, accurate satellite images of Greece, updated for the sixteen thousand kilometers of the Greek coast, with accuracy of satellite images twenty-five centimeters and with the command of the Company of Land planning to make the preliminary engraving of the Aegean Sea and the beach. And within two years this map was sent to all the public property services, ready, engraved preliminary coastline, based on satellite images. And when did the real estate agencies have done any corrections they wanted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Maniotis, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u59	On the basis of the law until 31-6-2018, that is, until a year ago, all Greece should have exactly engraved the lines of the sanctuary and the beach. And where are we now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Comrade, you're done. You've reached seventeen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u61	I shall conclude, Mr President, I shall not take any time from my dentistry. In what the Association of Farmers of Engineering says: "Environmental crime in which the technical world cannot consent. The government's environmental sensitivity stops outside the doors of major hotels." I'm presenting it for the Minutes. And I will end with what one serious environmental company says - apart from WWF and the others - the Greek Environment and Culture Company, which says on three lines everything: "The case law of the Council of State regarding the unconstitutionality of the coastal area is stable, clear and unquestionable. It is also true that the decisions of the Ice Bay characterise arbitrary interventions in the pathway as a crime. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] After that you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that you must look back into your mirror and, if you have courage or courage, talk again about progress and about the last card syllable - which has fallen - about your allegedly environmental sensitivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Maniots. Mr. Comrade, you've exhausted your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u63	Twenty years, what did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u65	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u66	Because Mr Maniotis spoke to me, otherwise I would not intervene, and I would refer to my speech, I have to say: The digital systems that you have left, with which the shape of the hayalus really took place, come our property today to examine them and in many cases we know what problems there are. I would tell you that in too many cases the engraving of the saint happens to be within the sea. We have too many problems. You've declared the services. We've found too little personal property. We are already trying to make transfers, in various ways, to bring staff to property and to proceed with integration. Also, in this bill, from what you would have seen, there is a secondary committee to draw up the cavalry to resolve the issues. At the moment the engraving of the saint and the integration of the real estate is about 80%. There has been a very serious job, which will continue in the next period. We cannot, however, say that all these digital systems, which have come, and we will do well to improve them from now on, have given the good image of the cavalry we should have. One more thing. You referred to hotels. I have also told the committees and you know very well that with this bill under no circumstances will there be anything to do about the use of the yacht by the hotel units. The only thing that hotel units can use from the cavalry is tourist ports, which is another bill for tourism and not this bill. We've taken out the tourist units. You know that very well. The only hotels and hotel accommodation we deal with in this bill are the ones that are state-owned - I've said it before - it's EOT's, it's "XENIA", it's all we all know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Maniotis, we're not going to start...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u70	For a minute, Mr President, as a parliamentary representative I have the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u71	We won't start having a conversation right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u72	Who's going to answer the minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u73	You asked a question. The Minister answered. Are we going to open a dialogue now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u74	He is a parliamentary representative and he must respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u75	Sit down, Mr. Kutsuko, please. What are you guys throwing away now? What are you? His lawyer? He can defend the reason himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u76	Excuse me, are you telling me you're not going to give me the floor? Are you kidding, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u77	I'm not joking at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u78	I guess you're kidding.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u79	No, I'm not kidding. And speak better, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u80	But can't you give me the floor to answer after the Minister as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u81	You're arbitrary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u82	The Minister hasn't spoken yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u83	Talk. He intervened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u84	Are we going to open a dialogue now? Mr. Maniotis, here, you have the floor. Please very soon. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u85	Yes, Mr President, just a minute. Listen, Minister, because I respect the difficult position you are in, I inform you of this very simple: if at sixteen thousand kilometres of coastline there were one or two of the million cases - where there was a mistake, that is why we gave it to your services to correct it. You know what you confessed to what you told me? That for five years you have let them "sleep", you have not corrected any mistakes and instead of the middle of 2018 we have the line of the sanctuary and the beach, you turn us a lot of steps back. And because you also made a reference to subscribing the services, I have to tell you that after five years of government SYRIZA, after thousands of appointments of poster and various others and only the fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u86	Where did you see them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u87	Well, tell us we haven't seen thousands of appointments from SYRIZA. What I have to tell you is this: After five years you had to have had your services elementarily served to protect the sea and the beach. I will give you just one example: in the Environment Inspectors' House, when you took over, there were twenty-four environmental inspectors. Do you know how many you have today? Five. Who should be ashamed of this? The ones who ruled before you or you who rule five years? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u90	Well, now the Minister has to answer. You have no complaint for the Minister to speak, though. You're not complaining now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u91	None.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u92	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u93	We are not the ones who accepted 'one to five'. We have brought it back from now on, and we will have all the workers who need to, and we will be able to create the conditions for fulfilling the public purpose for which it operates. We're not against digital systems. You know that very well. We're trying to digit as many things as we can. Already the Land Office operates similar systems. In no case, however, Mr Maniatis, with the tragic reduction in the staff that Samaras - Venizelos has brought, and even today when we are talking about 'one to one', some do not accept it and go to 'one to five', you cannot move our finger.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u94	Mr Georgiadis has the floor from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. For Mr. Maniatis to speak, I'm listening to him. I don't mind. I was on the list - I say it so that there would be no misunderstanding. It is simply because of obligations in the Association of Insurance Companies with Mr Petropoulos that we have been delayed, and so I have consulted with the Chair to speak later. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to speak in today's bill to highlight three issues, mainly because the two are in a positive direction - it is slowly ripe - SYRIZA and the third in a very negative direction. I get it in turn. And I'm glad to see Mr. Chironis here, who is also in ecology. In 2014, ladies and gentlemen, I was a parliamentary representative - Mr Gaki, you will remember - of the New Democracy. The then Minister, Mr Yiannis Stournaras, had made a similar arrangement for the settlement of the cavalry and the loose ends in the cavalry. When this arrangement came to the House, it was made on the part of SYRIZA, Minister, "Come and see". And not just in the House. You organised special gatherings and talks against this article that would destroy the cavalry in the various municipalities. I am sure - I do not remember it, but I am sure that he will have done so - that Mr Tsironis as economists will have done a great deal of talking against this attempt to settle the outstandings in the country's sanctuary. It's a mess! It took it five years to arrive in 2019, so that SYRIZA returns to the House today and you vote for what the Samara - Venizelos government would have done five years ago and that people would have saved so much hardship and the public would have received a shuttle of money. You didn't do it because of ideology. Of course, however, it is a maturing of your intelligence and your political acuity on the most positive, the right one. Every day we have what Tsipras said five years ago. Like today, Tsipras said: "You are either with SYRIZA or with the Memorandum. I will abolish the Memorandum with a law and an article." It's nice to remember, because in Greece we forget quickly. In this very sense, then you would abolish the memorandum with a law and an article, you are coming today, gentlemen of SYRIZA, and you are voting on something that I find positive. I would obviously like to see it more positive. It's all right, though. The next government will solve this. Anyway, don't drown you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u96	And we're late.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u97	You are making a huge change - you are also an engineer, Mrs Karakosta, you know that - in your ideology, in your declarations and in what you have said I congratulate you on. I would like to stress this: I congratulate you. It's good to start a listener and slowly come to the right. It means he's jumping his head. That's good. It grows. I'm not saying it's bad. You guys get to the right. That's good. At some point in your life you may become right and become normal people. So, basically, what is going on? He is entitled to today's SYRIZA bill once again the ideological supremacy of our own resignation. Because what we have been telling you for forty years, you are now coming and doing it in part. The whole thing will be done by Mitsotakis when the Greek people trust him. The same is happening even more emphatically, Mr Xydakis, the second I wish to raise, the voluntary contribution of the shipowners. Here you will allow me to make a reference to SYRIZA's bilateral shipping policy, which is an example that should be taught in Columbia. Not just fucking papa! Here are fates that don't have math. Watch out. Before he came to power, SYRIZA had adopted the entire agenda of the Communist Party of Greece, that shipowners are drinking people's blood, that they have a privileged tax regime, that the state is helping them save money, etc., to the point where too many shipowners - I had known them as Minister of Shipping, Minister - were concerned that if SYRIZA comes to power, they should change flags in their ships and tax seats on their ships. Whenever I was told, I always told them: "Don't take them seriously. They're lucky persecutors. When they come to power, you will find them quickly." I must say, however, that I, ladies and gentlemen, have not realised the size. And I am telling you a simple example - Mr Maniatis, you will like - which is the following: I was the Minister of Health and I had the opportunity to make an amendment when Stournaras legislated on the voluntary contribution of shipowners of 140 million. I want to be honest. I was against it, and then. I thought this levy was too much, and my general view was against taxes. My general view is that the shipowners have been very smuggled to Greece, they bring a very large currency to the country, and we should not then enter the populism that they supposedly drink the blood of the people and all the rest and make such a big contribution. In any case, however, the bad Samara - Venizelos government voted voluntary contributions of 140 million. A few days ago, fifty days ago in this case, the Shipowners' Union met, Veniamis and Mr. Tsipras, and signed a promise, to which they promised to bring down the amount of the voluntary contribution of Samaras - Venizelos from 140 million to 70 million, 75 million to the exact amount. I mean, they were doing exactly halfway. I, which reiterated my opposition to the levy from the outset, said 'bravo' to Tsipras. It reduces the levy by at least 50%. He saw the light and realized that what he said as a communist in the CNN in his youth or as a Radical Left coalition did not apply. This is the Radical Left Coalition, probably over us, because, from what I understand, your new name is "Progressive Alliance", isn't it? SYRIZA bye - bye! Well, anyway, you'll find these between you two. However, SYRIZA, as a "Progressive Alliance", now dropped it to 50%. Guys, I don't know how you're doing it, but you're real magicians! From the Maximos Mansion fifty days ago, where there was a press release, photographs and all that came out, and here came the voluntary contribution. I have to tell you that I, which was opposed from the outset, am pleased with this change and I shall be voting in favour of it. But I must say, you surprise me! What, you guys, what you were saying in your youth about shipowners? Mr. Gaki, how do you vote for this? I'm asking you that out of curiosity. Is there nothing in you to say 'Have I said a lot of bulbs'? Don't you feel that? Honestly, don't you feel it? Of the 140 million evil Samaras - Venizelos, 40 million with the good SYRIZA, fighting the capital, because Mitsotakis is the elite party, while Tsipras is the party of the poor, first of all poor Petros Kokkalis. And I'm closing in the inadmissible. Madam Minister, you need to think about it again very seriously. To tell a state "when you owe me, I put 8% interest on you and when I owe you, I give you a 3% interest rate", it is first, immoral and second, clearly illegal and will fall in the future in the Council of State. Because the whole logic of modern governance is the state and the citizen have equal rights, not different rights. If one owes the State the same amount that the State owes him, then a few years later he will have lost the full right only to the difference in interest. That is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u98	Now what's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u99	You have to say it will be exactly the same interest rate. Any interest on the part of the citizen will be charged to delay the payment by the State, the same interest rate will have to be from the state to the citizen, otherwise we will not make any progress and we will always be unfair to our fellow citizens. Thank you very much and once again very warmly. We welcome you to the more mature political thought. Good for helping the shipowners! Well done for the cavalry! This SYRIZA is fine! Mullah!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-three students and students and three educational escorts from the Elementary School of Nea Maditos Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Caracosta, you have the floor for seven minutes. Immediately thereafter Mr Gassis and Minister Kouvelis, who has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u101	Where to start and get it over with what we've heard today. Mr Manatis spoke eighteen minutes, of which twelve were to speak against SYRIZA, as if SYRIZA had been ruling over the previous years, as if in the period of SYRIZA, not in the PASOK and the New Democracy, the thousands were created arbitrarily, as if it were SYRIZA, if you remember, the Register - and it has never ended on your own governance - which is now going on. You know, people understand what's going on, they know very well what's going on in practice. Apart from what the bills are going through, what matters in practice. Honestly, I won't claim that the bills we're going through are the perfect ones, but they're steps towards perfect. They are steps every time to correct what we have found before us by your own governments. Have you really forgotten that there was no design anywhere and that the cities were first made and then the plan came? Did you forget that someone was throwing a stone in an area and thought it was his own, and then he came to squash the land, design, build the streets himself, come to sell without being in the plan small pieces as parcels, go to build arbitraryly without permission? Do you not remember that all this was because there was no planning framework, so that all these settlements that have been presented and which could not proceed with the forest maps could be presented? And we have had to do what, which, in my view, is correct, is the housing density. That doesn't mean they're not forest areas. Forest density, settlements doesn't mean they're not forest areas. It's under consideration areas. If it's appreciated, they'd get into the plan, if it's not appreciated, they wouldn't get in. It is, however, releasing the rest of the space so that we can move on to the register and end some things. Same goes for the gospels. At some point, what is public is to be written in the register, what is not public. This comes clearly and defines what we are debating today as a fourth part of this bill. It records, that is, that the saints, lagoons, river coastlines, etc. They belong to the public and it clarifies that this controls them, of course it protects them, in accordance with the principles of freedom and spatial planning. Includes spatial planning. Because it was actually mentioned earlier by my colleague, Mr Cameroon, on the Dodecanese and the special status that exists. However, we have settlements that are worthwhile and touristic and are kept on many islands and on many Aegean islands, which are in the sea. He may not see this bill right now, because it is general, but he must see it a second bill of another ministry, which he must design differently in every place. The issues cannot be dealt with by single law throughout Greece when it comes to spatial planning. And that's what we have to understand. There is the general law, but it is the design that specialises cases, and we must of course move it as soon as possible. (AD) So they come here and tell us 'whether you legalize arbitrary'. They never thought of why arbitrary and what to do with them. There are areas, indeed, which have been built arbitrarily, but which are characterised as tourist sites, frankly, we must see them as attractions. The Venice of Mykonos is in the sea. But it's in all the kart postels all over the world. What about this? Do you think he was in design when they were built? Retrospectively, they got into the plan. So these points must be dealt with accordingly. What's the bill coming to make? It comes to mention and clarify uses that already exist, of course, even arbitrary, such as the fish farms that do not reach them, but must have access from land or shipping groups and their operation, the shipyards and much more. So it comes to say - so that I do not eat my time - if they existed in 2011 and can be licensed, that is to be done after scrutiny and after a judgement of a committee. We do not understand why we should have these businesses hostage. We need to see it. It describes exceptionally the opening of roads if there are private properties between the cavalry and the public road in order not to run five kilometers of bas and find a path to go down to the sea. It opens the way for a certain width so that the pedestrian, i.e. the citizen, can pass, reach the sea and not be cut by private property. An excellent decision that no one ever dared to make to this day! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I didn't understand how I consumed time. It matters, therefore, how it determines and leaves 60% free space for bathers. And it's also important because on the crowded beaches the citizen can't swim unless he pays an umbrella. We have to see and see that law. He needs to see how the separation takes place. It preserves the small beaches, as it does not give a rental area to umbrellas, tables and all of this, so that there is free access. I will no longer deal with the cavalry, despite the fact that there is too much to say. But be careful of something else. We were accused by Mr. Maniotis of developing Golden Dawn thanks to us. Really, when did Golden Dawn raise a head? In our governance? Did he think that? We are the ones who dare and give the 8 million euros, for which the Golden Dawn has accused us today, in order to become the museum. We are the ones we dare, whether they like it or not, whether they want it or not. We dare to look at the businessmen of Greece - and the majority of Greek entrepreneurs are not the big businessmen, but the middle class - and say to them "Come to genuinely good growth, sustainable and fair in this country, everyone to work, everyone to produce, everyone to have your design, all to have your place in the area and honestly all this will then come to good not only your own, but the whole country, the economy of the country, the planning and the uses of the land in this country." We need time, it's true, to finish this design. This world, all Greeks, understand it and it is certain that they will give us the next four years, no matter how much Maniotis and others are calling in New Democracy tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Karakosta. Mr Gazis from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll start with two findings. Firstly, we should have some environmental ministers of the previous governments - not to mention by name - politicising when they come here and incur us on the basis of the assessment of an environmental organisation that we are currently operating unconstitutionally. Secondly, arrogance, irony and political empathy are the most dangerous partner of political behaviour. It appears that the members of the PASOK Change Movement did not incorporate it these four years in the Opposition. It is certain that the Greek people will give them time credit or deprive them of this possibility definitively and irrevocably. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today for our country's participation in an international, financial institution, the Asian Bank, Infrastructure and Investment aims to promote sustainable economic development and regional cooperation with China and other multilateral and bilateral development organisations. The bill works in the context of the extroversion we seek for the Greek economy. It also contains an important issue of environmental, social, development and ultimately, a fundamental issue for the future of the country and its citizens, the cavalry. Procedures for taking advantage of local societies and the national interest with respect to the environment are clearly laid down, with a view to overriding sustainability in the development perspective. In this tripartite we are giving a credible, innovative process and functional solution to the issues of the caucasus concerning sensitive environmental and geomorphological areas in our country. We are protecting the cavalry against arbitrary and, at the same time, we are giving citizens access to the cavalry itself. However, I would like to refer to a problem which particularly appears in the Dodecanese. It would be very useful if you could give me some time, Mr President, to make a historical reference. The problem starts from the time of the Turkish rule. The Sultan of the then Ottoman Empire removed land ownership to residents of the regions that resisted it, known as satelliteers, i.e. islands that have fought against him and were conquered by war. During the Turkish occupation, the recognition of the ownership of the property of the natural persons was made with the so-called domicile agreement, in which the position, extent, elements of the owners of neighbouring property were recorded, as well as the so-called dowry, such as the acceptance of property rights and the recognition of permanent rights to third parties, were defined. At the same time, the Turkish regime recorded the properties and forced residents of the real estate to declare and assign a fixed percentage to crops or to a sum of money. In view of the high rate of taxation and the inability to pay the relevant price, since the survival of the Dodecanese and their families was a priority, many did not make a statement in this regard in order to avoid taxation and thereby ensure some of their survival and the avoidance of the compulsory military imposition of the price. In 1912, with the military invasion of the Italians and the conquest of the islands of Dodecanese, almost the same tax status of the properties was maintained and the recognition of the county and occupation until the period of 1922 when the Dodecanese real estate was drawn up. During the preparation of the land register of Rhodes, Kos and part of Leros by the Italian conquerors, the discrimination of property in free property - mulk - or public land - arguably mir - as a remnant of the Ottoman Empire was maintained. However, knowing the Italians, the lack of the status of declared real estate, they established the Rules of Procedure, which included most of the procedure for registration of immovable property, recognising all kinds of evidence, and demanding that they be registered in the real estate volumes. In many cases, property serving military needs of the conqueror was captured, received a number of real estate units, but recorded as public estates, while other property, mainly coastal areas, were excluded and received no number of real estate units. These properties served military needs of the conquerors. With the Treaty of Delivery of the islands of the Dodecanese in 1948 and with the incorporation into the mother of the government decree 132/1929 remained in force until now, and there is no mention of the above remarks. During the period of 1960 with the establishment of the State's real estate agency in Dodecanese, and under the existing legislation at the time, there was a record of the above-mentioned properties, i.e. those that had not been captured and received real estate units in the preparation of the Rhodes and Kos property, while those properties already had existing permanent residences many years ago and had been classified as arbitrary buildings persecuted for decades with exterminating fines for owners. By adopting Law No 2971/2001, as amended by the draft law that we are discussing today, the hagialo is identified as the area of land that is found from the sea by the greatest and usual upsurges of the winter wave and as an essential element of the natural environment is protected by the state. In the Dodecanese, however, in particular, in accordance with Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure, 132/1929, as I have told you, it is laid down that the cavalry outside the urban centres, other than the organized towns, is that area which extends from the sea to the limit of the maximum winter wave, but which also includes a zone of 12 metres wide. In this area, therefore, there are legally existing buildings, either prior to 1948 or they were building units with buildings, houses on these land units, recorded in the books of the land registers, which are scattered within the single communal property zone and appear on the local landmarks drawn up by the Italians in the Dodecanese of 1923. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. Today it is necessary to restore the equivalence of treatment for the people of the Dodecanese, in relation to the rest of Greece, in relation to the treatment of the buildings located in this area of the 12 measures, which is an increase in the winter wave, namely the increase in the sanctuary of the rest of the country. It is also necessary to make better use of this regulation and to satisfy the general interest. We are not asking for the abolition of this 12-mile zone. We call for this 12-mile zone to be maintained. However, one cannot overlook that there are property and buildings within this area. That's what we're asking for. He discussed a proposal from the Ministry of Economy, which came after consultation with local bodies, which I will read to be written in the Minutes of the House. I hope that the Ministry of Economy will take it into account at the next stage in the preparation of this plan and in the resolution of these problems. We are therefore talking about the islands of the Dodecanese Prefecture and the off-project areas in the process of defining the boundaries of the caucasus and in accordance with Article 3 of the Dodecanese Territory Regulation 132/1929, which was maintained in force by Article 8(2) of Law 510/1947, where there is an increase of the winter wave by 12 metres and strictly within this 12th zone, and not in the usual upwards of the winter wave, to exclude the buildings that presuppose 1948.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u105	In other words, we are not asking for the legitimacy of today's generation of arbitrariness, as they appear, Mr President, in the aerial photographs of the year in question, as well as building days which are also recorded in the books of the Rhodes and Kos building blocks. I think this is a fair demand from the people, but also a restoration of the equality and justice that we must restore, Minister. And we must quickly take this into account in the next phase so that we can go ahead with its resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Gaki. Mr Kouvelis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the shipping of the Greeks with the large number of established ship management offices, which at 31 December 2018 amounted to a thousand four hundred one companies against a thousand and eighty-seven companies on 31 December 2017 - that is, the present percentage increase is 1% - has made our country one of the most important management centres worldwide with obvious benefits for the national economy, employment, and also support for the wider shipping grid. Today - to know this - the capacity of the management fleet amounts to four thousand, seven hundred and six ships over a thousand GT, with a capacity of 365,45 million tonnes of DWT, an increase of around 6.6% over the previous year. The Greek and Greek-occupied shipping is the most typical example of extroversion and healthy entrepreneurship, which operates at all lengths and backs of the planet. I note that it is characteristic that for 2018, as well as for 2018, Greek shipping continued to represent more than 20% of world capacity in terms of DWT more than 51% of the European Union's shipping. The shipping of the Greeks is undoubtedly one of the most important sectors of the national economy, contributing more than 9% to the Gross National Product. Shipping contributes significantly to the reduction of the current account deficit through the introduction of funds from abroad, which is confirmed by the Bank of Greece's official data on the introduction of shipping exchanges, which are channelled to the economy, the strengthening of employment, and the achievement of multiplier benefits in maritime activities. I am focusing on Article 56, namely the new symposium between the Greek State and the maritime community signed in February 2019, namely this year, and point out that the Greek shipping community through its voluntary initiative demonstrates its intention to further contribute to the national economy. This initiative was first implemented in 2014, which was ratified by Article 42 of Law No.4301/2014 and had effect from 18 July 2013 with a commitment between the Greek State and the shipping community. The initial concession procedure applied for the period from 2014 to 2018 for the tax years 2013 to 2017, in which four hundred seventy companies participated in the year 2014 and in the next sixty-five additional companies, representing a total of more than 95% of the Greek-managed fleet capacity. The ratification of the new consortium of the Greek State with the shipping community is a new contract between the State and shipping, which responds to the government's pursuit of social return entrepreneurship. The main difference in the new contributor, in relation to the previous year, is that the payment of the voluntary provision is shifted from the corporate tax level of the shipowners to the level of the natural persons in the capacity of the final shareholders, or members or actual beneficiaries, to the beneficiaries of shipowners, to vessels under Greek or foreign flag, to tax residents of Greece, amounting to a fixed rate of 10% of the amounts imported into any currency from dividends of these shipowners for an indefinite period. And that's very important. This is an indefinite agreement. According to the data of the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs - undeniably - the number of ships involved so far in the new voluntary supply procedure amounts to a particularly high proportion of the management fleet of the shipping pond. In particular, more than five hundred shipping companies were involved in the new procedure, the majority of which concerned management companies under Article 25 of Law 27/1975, as well as shipping companies under Law 959/1979. The total number of ships declared exceeded the impressive number of fourteen thousand ships and the reported capacity - here is the critical - exceeds 95% of the total management capacity of the shipping poder. The almost universal involvement of the shipping community in the new voluntary provision confirms in our assessment that creative Greece is present in the effort to capitalise the country's development path. Let me say this. The macroeconomic sizes of the country undeniably highlight the contribution of Greek shipping to employment and the Gross Domestic Product of our country. According to the Bank of Greece data for 2018, a currency exchange of the ‘Transport’ category of the service balance was incurable and EUR 16,629,9 million was committed against EUR 14,473.8 million in the respective year 2017 and EUR 12,574 million in the corresponding year 2016. The increase is obvious and therefore the return on revenues with the promised to the Greek State is evident. Comparing the amount of the forward exchange rate of 2018 with the amount of the corresponding period of 2017, an increase of 14,9 % arises and, compared to the amount of the corresponding period of 2019, an increase of 32,25 %. According to the annual report of the Greek Shipowners Association 2017-2018, in 2017, inflows to the balance of payments from the provision of maritime services are estimated at around EUR 9,14 billion, increasing 16,91% compared to 2016, when the inflows to the balance of payments were EUR 7,81 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, according to statistical data from the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, there has been an increase in the management fleet for 2018, four thousand four hundred and fifty-six management ships with a capacity of 200.3 million OC by 2.37% and a capacity of 3.42%, compared with 2017, which shows, on the one hand, the expansion of the Greek fleet and, on the other, the dynamics of the maritime sector in the national economy, despite the current crisis on the world market for the last years. I must tell you that the sum of EUR 1 million each year from the money that will be injected into the Greek State by the promise - which is an extremely important amount - will be made available for maritime education. I know that the constant reference to numbers is probably unreasonable in this procedure, but I have made this reference in order to show that in recent years, with a specific policy, we have these achievements in the field of maritime industry, achievements and results which contribute to the continued effort to increase the revenues of the Greek public and obviously with the multi-level fair growth that we are seeking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Madam Minister, you have the floor to table the legislative improvements. For the economy of time you don't need to read them, you can just deposit them and the services will share them. If it's important, of course, you can say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u109	I will not go into detail all of them, and I shall refer to two - three which are particularly important, such as the last subparagraph of Article 1(2) of Law 2971/2001, which concerns the beach and the definition of the beach which was less wide than thirty metres. In this case, it may determine a smaller width of the beach, after a reasoned judgement, taking into account, in particular, the specific geomorphological elements and specific characteristics of the natural and structured environment of the area. In the context of the preparation and establishment of the local spatial plans in the areas defined by the Agialos, the beach line is also defined on the basis of the above criteria and in cases where the stage of the preparation of the local spatial plans has already been established, this beach is incorporated as it is. This is the first thing we consider important. The second, which we also consider to be important, is that the validity of Article 2(5), which is replaced by Article 24 of the draft law, shall start from the entry into force of this Act. Also, there was a lot of discussion in the 14A committees, case two. We'll rethink it, and next time we'll get it better. We remove it from this. One more important thing is - and I mentioned it in the committees too - that the Ministry of Finance is not licensed. Authorizes the concession of use. The other ministries license the facilities, license the technical works and come the Ministry of Finance, after having taken all the previous ones, and make the concession use. This is why, in cases where licensing appears, we also complete the concession of use, so that there is no doubt about it. To conclude, I would like to say that, for the specific legislative improvements - and some more that come within the next period - we have taken into account Members who have proposed them - I see Mr Xydakis, Mr Tsironi and other Members - and the environmental organisations, as well as our colleagues of counter-population with the proposals we have made and with the debate that has taken place in the committees and we come and bring this text.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u110	Can I get you some more?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u111	There's a few more, a few, but the basics are here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, six students and students and two educational escorts from the Greek Stockholm School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor for seven minutes and immediately after Mr. Tsironis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister has just covered many of the remarks we have made - both from the Opposition and from the Plenaryism - about one and a half to two years ago. I ask Mrs Papanatsiou, the Minister of State, as of January 2018 - and with a repetition in June 2018 - and we are sufficiently discussing the armoring of the Greek citizen, his feeling and his constitutional right to have access to all the beaches of the Greek territory, how we will modernise the legislation of the 1980s, the so-called "Third Law", which gave us unrelenting access to the citizens, but also to the political will, the political plan and the last expressed will of the Left, as was expressed in 2005, when the "Open City" and Alexis Tsipras were taken down to the beaches of the Greek and we threw the illegal wires. I think that through many difficulties, through many legal difficulties and the harmonisation of a complex legislative framework and new business activities, which others are useful and beneficial to the economy and others are mobilised and hampering the free access to the beaches, a section has been found. It took a lot of time, took a lot of trouble, and now we have a wise and democratic use of the beaches and the saints. I think that the rules that we are now putting in a barrier and some mocking limits on over-exploitation and the phenomena of over-tourism, which will only damage in the medium term. They are already doing so now that we are talking about the overall capacity of the tourism economy. We guarantee the citizen and all his constitutional rights. At the same time, we show understanding and knowledge, by laying down rules that help healthy entrepreneurship. From the remarks we have made, the Minister has accepted some improvements. There are already embedded and will be announcing everything - I think it has been given to colleagues - and for the 60% limit for each beach to remain free, not to be delivered for commercial exploitation up to 40%, which will be delivered for commercial exploitation. The small beaches, on which there was an ambiguity in the wording, are also protected. It was reported that small beaches with an area of fifty - two hundred square meters could also be delivered for farming. This isn't about it. No sunbeds and umbrellas will be spread on this small beach. There will only be a minimal facilitation to an operation that has floating in and takes the bathers or tourists and takes them into the sea. There is a fair treatment, strict and fair treatment for all offenders and those who are making arbitrary trespass on the beach - which goes and owns a section - with very strict sanctions. The crime is self-evident and the port is handled. I hope the port will do its job, be present, be there. It's not always. We are talking in terms of reality and not in terms of the ideal duty or duty, what must be done. It is not always the Port on time, but now, with the regulation of legislation, the area to be exploited is defined by a sign that says where it is. The website of the municipality concerned will contain the scoring and topography of the commercial beach, therefore the free beach, and there will also be a telephone number to speed up and demand punishment if the citizen finds an infringement. It is tragic and funny in the Hellenic Republic of 2019, when we see a vehicle occupying a pavement or engraving with this atrocity, which unfortunately characterizes some of our fellow citizens, the crossing over for a blind or crippled, we can and should be morally obliged to call Troy and come pick it up. The same right should be for the Greek citizen, who goes with his family to take ten baths a year. When he sees himself taking over the beach and obliging him to pay lofts and umbrellas in a section that should be free, he should have the right to seek immediate removal and immediate punishment. I am delighted to see that these forecasts have been included in this legislative framework that we have. I hope, I hope, and call for this law to enter into force immediately. All the process of implementing provisions and ministerial decisions not to be late, to make it possible for us this summer to have a better picture and a better substance, a more democratic function within our country. We want tourism. We want the revenue from tourism. We want to support the tourist economy, but an economy based on an unfair social function, which excludes the poor, the impossible, the citizen from free access to the beaches of his country, is not a healthy economy. It's a sick economy that characterizes serviles and idols. I am pleased that some of these provisions put a order on a number of issues, which have a very great symbolic weight and have a moral and psychological benefit to citizens who will seek to rest from the sufferings of the year and give a great message of what is meant by equality and respect for political and individual rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. I'm sorry, Mr. Cironi, but Mr. Voridis is the lead. I had addressed you, but I had omitted Mr. Voridis because he was not in the Chamber. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u115	I do not think I will need it, Mr President, because I shall refer to an issue which has given me an astonishing impression and I would like to see a little of the government's position on it. An amendment was tabled which, as soon as it was tabled, was withdrawn? No, I want to hear if she's retired or not to talk about her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u116	What amendment are you saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u117	Right away. It is the one mentioned in the concession agreement between the GOI and the “Advertising Anonymous Company”. It is Amendment No 2092.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u118	I don't have her in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u119	If you do not consider it, it is even worse because it bears your signature in the place of the Minister of Finance, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotou. You sign up for yourself, Mrs. Papanatsiou, as your signature bears, and in place of the Deputy, Mr. Juliarakis. It is also not signed by the relevant Minister for Sports, but by Mrs Zorba. So I would like to ask whether or not this amendment applies to us to discuss it? If that's not the case, I also want to ask questions about her statement. Does the government know her? Do you sign it, do you know the amendment? In order not to waste time, first of all to know whether it has been withdrawn or not. Can you clarify this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Voridis, he's retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u121	I am sorry, Mr President, to ask for clarification, but it is important.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u122	I tell you he's retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u123	It appears that she has been submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u124	Where did you see her?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u125	Where did I see her? I'll tell you where I saw her because the CEO asks me. I do not know the position of the gentleman who asks me, but to facilitate the procedure - although I do not have to respond to advisors...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u126	He's a general secretary...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u127	Whatever you are. You are not a member of the government, I am not obliged to answer you. I will tell you that it is Amendment No 2092 and special number 281. Descended on 15-4-19, 14:05. Well, this is an attempted sport. Listen, Mr. Mada, and you will give me right to what I say now, not to anyone else, you, I count too much, especially by you. There have been, ladies and gentlemen, a concession between the HICP and the ‘PROPRITIES A.E.’. The purpose of this concession is to conduct horse racing and to award a racing bet. It is the development - I say it to all my fellow Members - of history with the OHIM. There was a long time ago the Greek Horse racing organization. He went into a process of privatization - and I am right to say - and then the issue was raised who would conduct the horse races and have become an international competition. In the international competition - perhaps our oldest history - were different shapes. Finally, one of the "PROPROMES S.A.", with a key shareholder, if I remember correctly, the OPAP. He therefore took over the concession as a result of this tender. That's good, that's good. The exclusive right to conduct horse races under the terms of the contract and a racing bet was therefore granted to him under that contract. For the use of the Morkopoulou Hiking Train facilities, the amount of EUR 2 million per year had to be paid. This convention is coming here and there is a change, with the following argument. Watch out now. Because, he says, they have stopped racing, who is responsible for racing? The concessionaire, he's gonna have to do it. He stopped doing them, because he's losing money, and he's asking for the following. I stress he's got it in an international competition. He calls for his lease to be reduced, from 2 million euros to be paid for 200,000 euros. In 20 years' time, the convention, from which five years have elapsed and is still fifteen. This makes some difference, if I remember correctly, with a quick calculation of 30 million to collect the HICP less, i.e. the public. Secondly, he asks to be able to merge the "PROPROPHES S.A.", which is injurious, with the OPAP. Why? The OPCW has profits, it will compensate for the losses it has with its profits, to avoid tax payments, that is to say, a further about 10 million losses from this netting. Also, to change the land uses around the Hippodrome, in order to provide additional land uses. It is therefore necessary to obtain an additional value and all these unilateral, public-interest-favourable changes will be made - I stress it - without any commitment and any change in the concessionaire's obligations. And this amendment is coming now, late, while this debate is evolving in this bill, without the signature of the Ministers, rather than the signature of Mrs Papanatsiou, who has obviously not even understood what we are talking about. I hope he's retired. Do not think of taking such a step anyway, most of all with a process of well - being. Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to expect to hear the Government's position on this issue, that this unacceptable amendment, which comes with this unacceptable approach, which is scandalously harmful to the public interest and puts forward - and this is even worse - the agony of families who actually live on horse racing. Now the concessionaire comes in and says: 'I stop running', so coaches don't get money, horse owners don't get money, they don't get money. It has them in the air, in breach of the contract, and instead of the Greek State energising the rights it has from the contract, due to the infringements made by the concessionaire, it is coming up and making a harmful change, without having committed the concessionaire to anything at all. And he comes to go through it today, by way of appallingness, without even signatures from the relevant ministers, the Minister of Finance, that is to say, the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, and the competent Minister of Sport, Mr Vassilidis, rather than other signatures. Excuse me, but it's incredible what's happening, it's unprecedented. I think it is completely incomprehensible. I imagine you've already withdrawn it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u128	Mr Vorides, let me inform you on the basis of the Bureau, with the knowledge we have shown that this amendment has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u129	On the site of the House is posted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u130	In my note, he hasn't come down yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u131	However, it has been tabled, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u132	No one refused that, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u133	In order to withdraw something tabled, there must be a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u135	Sure. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u136	It was submitted when the ministers were gone abroad. As the ministers returned, they retired and will return to another bill by the appropriate ministers. I had signed for the Foreign Ministers, the Deputy Minister and the Finance Minister. You seven minutes are entangled here now for things that aren't there at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, may I take the floor for'square'?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u138	Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u139	Madam Minister, let us be aware of the parliamentary procedure: when an amendment is tabled, this amendment, you tell us that it has been done in this way, namely what? The ministers were gone and you signed. I should like to ask, and why not expect the ministers to come and sign properly, rather than rush, sign, testify?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u140	Welcome back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u141	Not good, bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u142	Just because they're back, so he's retired, and he's going to another bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u143	Poor thing. But watch out for something else now. In order to withdraw an amendment once it has been tabled, a declaration by the Government - otherwise it is not magically withdrawn - is needed, Mr Manda, which has just been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u144	But he's retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u145	You will clarify that, Minister, and the time you take the floor. You can place yourself if you want to. Mr. Chironis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. It doesn't have to be especially experienced for the Greek beach. Anyone who has walked on a Greek beach will see this misery, this anarchy - with the badly defined meaning of the word - prevailing, people not knowing what is theirs and what is of the state, with roads that sink, the mayor cannot correct, because he is illegal even the road, with biological cleansing that in the first inflatable sea, such as Naxos, flood, because he is illegally over the sanctuary, with half the city of Zacharos on the beach being built on an old haystack and completely illegal, five, seven, eight building blocks inside, we are not talking in the wave, at this time to be completely in the air, or with some bits of beaches, such as in Santorini, which, not only operate unnecessarily, is completely illegal, but have also made goats into the sea and of course no one can move them. All this chaos, due to the client state, in this vicious client state that has sank our country, suddenly here, the opposition doesn't remember it, has not lived it, has not seen it, has not seen all this misery in decades or has not seen that careers, business, hotels, which most of them have no license, sports centres, even schools. And it is coming now, for example, that a gentleman from Anti-Population finds that Mr. Voutsis, in my own agreement, has called a demolition of a house in Rafina Perimeters! Wow, the scandal, the clientele! But to tell you, to hear from your fellow citizens who have houses in such areas, arbitrarily, that the particular citizen, therefore, who had built it for many decades, when he built it, had been empty and it was not forested, it was agricultural. arbitrary, out of plan, man built. Three houses around him, on the same building block, are legal, not forests. And the entire area, if you see, the resurrected area that was judged, after man had built his house, the resurrected area is six hundred square meters, 25X25, fellow citizens and fellow citizens. Especially this land stain was a forest in the Forestry. The whole other area around is not a forest. And what did we say about Mr. Voutsi then? To postpone demolition until forest maps are made, which have taken place in the area at the moment we are talking about. Then, when we were delivered, we had forest maps only 0.8% of Greece, not even 1%. It's been decades, of course, to have these citizens hostage. You had them hostages in Penteli, in the Perimeters and anywhere else. And you have the nerve and you speak. And now these settlements, for which for a long time only 0.17% of the maps are used. We have ratified 40% of the country's maps and we will end, ladies and gentlemen, and the citizens will no longer be hostages, our fellow citizen will know whether or not his home is on forests and not momentarily one - one case: forest - non-forestry, forest - non-forestry, which is ironically called 'dadela'. And now I'm going back to the bill, which is something like that, because our beaches are the same. This anarchy, this client regime, which destroyed the country, was hostage to all citizens. We Greens, you know, have had a lot of objections, I have also made it to the committees, I have spoken officially, and we have tabled them, and I can say that I am quite satisfied with many improvements. I'll tell who we agreed to and who we didn't agree to. First of all, we have made it very clear that, when we talk about the licensing of existing installations, we are talking exclusively about those that are essentially necessary, huge differences: a turbulence that did not have a legal slip. How could someone else throw their boats into the sea? Or an aquaculture without facilities. But how could you not have a boat that has the cages? It couldn't. The essential necessary facilities, therefore, may be authorised if they can be authorised under the law. Let's say that, because it's very important. We have finally passed the adaptation to climate change in the law, because we risk that the sea will reach much higher. We have finally added the special terms 'NATURA'. And, of course, in Article 28, for example, only publicly and for a public purpose are legalised, we are ending with illegal private. And, of course, any legalization of hotels which did not have the opportunity to do so was ruled out. We have a serious disagreement - and if there is a roll-call vote we will vote against - on hydrocarbons research. Let's get this straight. We Greens are generally opposed to mining. We have said so, we have pointed this out and believe that it is a disaster not only for the environment but also for the economy of the country. Nothing will benefit the country's economy from mining. But even though the majority of Parliament is signing conventions despite our objection. And here I would like to point out that the parties that are opposite, apart from the economists, such as the JRC, do not disagree with mining, but disagree with the concession to private individuals. It's a big difference. We disagree with the mining ourselves. We have a radical difference. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, and I shall conclude. The majority of Parliament - and I respect it - wants these mining to take place. And there's got to be research. Well, there's no need to carry out the searches on the cavalry. We all know how research is done, by sounding, by small explosions or by drilling. Well, there's no need to be in the 50 meters of the saint. Let the company that's going to do these investigations turn a little bit. Madam Minister, I would like to present the appeal and now let the company go further than 50 metres. We want to make it clear in the article that research purposes are allowed - of course they are allowed - for scientific reasons: to exclude research on hydrocarbons, because they also need to understand haematologically. Let's go 50 meters more or more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr. Tsironi. We were prepared for Mr Karathanasopoulos, but obviously something would come up. Mrs Vagonakis will be speaking right now. Mrs Vayonakis has the floor on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which has many regulations, but the ones that monopolized interest in the committee, but also the press releases, concerned the cavalry, I would say not unfairly, given that here, in other words, the cavalry, there are many and different interests. The bill attempts to put order on a number of ambiguities and "loopholes" of the past, as well as to solve society's pressing needs. To have rules regulating the many and different activities for me is the question, it is essential, "because the wolf is rejoicing on the bulwark." The lack of rules leads to arbitrariness and, in my opinion, a lack of rules suits some people, and that is why they may have left it in the past. However, this must be done on a conditional basis: environmental protection, without leaving misunderstandings and gaps, since Article 24 clearly states that the Aegean is an essential element of the natural environment of the country, which is protected by the state, which manages it according to its nature and its publicity. I would like to dwell on two - three points concerning the cavalry. I see an effort made in the bill to support development efforts which are not just about sun and sea. It is clear that support arrangements for aquaculture or for farm animal and fishery activities, as provided for in Article 36, for the granting of public islands to agricultural, agricultural, livestock and fisheries cooperatives, farmers' organisations in the agricultural sector and municipal undertakings in order to promote their activities, with the agreement of the Ministry of National Defence, are in place. I have a reservation on the RES mentioned in the same article, due to the accompanying projects, which often adversely affect the environment. Secondly, the measures provided for in the simple use of hay. Here, clearly, changes are in favour of public use. The ratio of 40% -60% for all beaches and 30% -70% for the NATURA regions - the first element is the concession and the second is the free use - has a clear improvement in relation to the past and improvement in the free access to the beaches. Thirdly, it is the privileged treatment of shipping centres and the use, privileged by sports clubs, sports activities. I think that's in the right direction too. However, during the meetings of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy there were some objections in part to Article 34 and partly to Article 28. There has been an in-depth and constructive debate on this in committee. In my opinion, the exhaustive description of the exceptions could make it clear what we want to do in Article 34. As well as the description in Article 28 of those excluded and mentioned in detail in Article 34. In other words, the provisions of Article 28 do not concern housing of any kind, shops of all kinds, including commercial and health care, with their annexes and appendices, camping, tourist accommodation in general and hotel facilities. I think that would make the scene even clearer and probably blunt the misunderstandings. We have tabled an amendment concerning the victims of the last natural disasters on the island. I don't know if it can be accepted. It is an issue which we may not see in the existing bill, but I think that, in proportion to what happened in the past, it is just and socially acceptable. I do not know how, but the government has to find out how to institutionalise this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u149	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being followed by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the report by the Chamber of Deputies VENIZELOS and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, thirty-five heads of the delegations of the European countries of the French Parliament. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Independent MP Mr Constantine Katsikis has the floor for seven minutes. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Balomemakis will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the total of the five parts of the draft law, which are being voted on today, include, admittedly, numerous and diverse provisions, which have been examined in detail at the previous meetings of the Committee on Economic Affairs. With regard to the first part, our country must, admittedly, ratify the agreement on the Asian Investment Bank in order to become a full member of this international financial institution, which currently numbers ninety-three member countries. Greece must, moreover, join the group of countries that are economically linked to the Asian market, thereby ensuring its active participation in all those development prospects that are before the gates. The second and third part of this draft law, on VAT of prepaid card transactions and on laying down rules against the tax evasion practices of groups - business respectively, is, in any case, a contractual obligation for our country to harmonise its national legislation with the European institutional framework and I will therefore not be further extended. So I come to the fourth part of the draft law and, more specifically, Article 25. I feel, ladies and gentlemen, glad that a subject which has been afflicted by hundreds of citizens is resolved in a transparent and fair way. I am referring to the creation of a secondary Committee on Harris Aegialou, whose competence is to examine citizens' objections to decisions to draw up a saint and an old saint, issued by the relevant agency. I cannot understand, however, how such a simple subject of common sense, I would say, took so much time and effort now to resolve the problem. It was a great originality, for so many years, the same people who made the decisions themselves to decide on the objections raised by the taxpayers. The provision of Article 25 restores legal certainty to citizens' consciences and normalizes relations between a State and a citizen. I have had this concern for two years, as I owed, in many ways, by letters, in memos, with meetings, with a timely question to the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance. All these efforts have been successful and I am pleased, because the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs Papanatsiou, has fully understood the need to resolve this problem, contributing substantially and decisively to its resolution, and that is why I thank her publicly. I will remain in the fourth part of the draft law and will insist on the issues of the use and delimitation of the cavalry as set out in Articles 23 to 42. Last Wednesday, 10 April, ladies and gentlemen, I tabled it under a general number of 2079 and a special 271 amendment concerning Article 36. I don't know if she was distributed, I don't know if you took it, I don't know if the content of it has caused your attention or interest. I have not been given the opportunity to understand what your views on this amendment are. We therefore propose, by means of this amendment, that another national safety net be introduced. Of course I do not know, Minister, whether you are thinking of accepting it or not. We propose a national security net in favour of our sovereign rights, in cases involving the granting of use to islands, rock islands, reefs, snipers and shallow marine land. This is because we find the criticalness of the concessions envisaged by the public authorities under Article 16 of Law 2971/2001 as it was then and as this is now amended by Article 36 by this draft law. In particular, for our national interests, our national defence and security, I believe we must legislate by eliminating any possible future risk. Because there could be a relative risk, ladies and gentlemen, when an entity of foreign interests, which is controversial about Greece, acquires rights of use on the other sites, which may be of strategic importance. We are aware of the highest strategic importance the islands and rocky islands of our Aegean can take. Especially when they acquire natural or legal persons of foreign interests and often not friendly to our country. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] It is therefore necessary to have a more stringent legal framework for these reasons, according to which no legal or natural entity can hold more than 25% of the total economic scheme it claims or in which the use of one of the above critical areas is guaranteed or granted. That is the substance of the amendment, Mr President and Minister, by which we call for the institutional framework to be tightened up in the interests of our national interests. We therefore ask that Article 36 should be added, paragraph 6, which reads as follows: ‘In the concessions of this Article, which are made in agreement with the Ministry of National Defence, with the agreement of the Defence Council, it shall be prohibited that concession be made in economic terms in which a natural or legal entity of foreign interests holds more than 25%’. I therefore consider it necessary to adopt this amendment, which I believe will be widely accepted by all Members. I think so. To close, I'd like to stay in article 61 a little. Mr Minister, although I have already thanked you publicly, I would now like to draw your attention to a point on which I believe the answers you have given to what is happening in the Committee on Game Supervision and Control were not at least the desirable, the expected ones. I would remind the House and those of my fellow Members who did not have the opportunity to attend the last meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, that at the moment we are being called upon to vote today, as provided for in Rule 61, on the need to create new posts, but also on the stay of the officials already employed in the Committee on the Supervision and Control, there are elements of removal. I therefore call on the head of the Ministry of Finance to take a stand against the complaints that come to light and are related to removals of posted officials following a decision by the Management of the Committee on Gambling Supervision and Control. Are the removals of unwanted political officials being carried out - we understand - in order to pave the way for the secondment and transfer of unwanted politicians? We're wondering. That's the question. I think no one can hide under the cloak of the independent authority. So I return, Minister - and I regret that I am being unpleasant - because, on the one hand, I think that this matter needs to be settled within its scope, and when you say that the Ministry of Finance cannot take a stand, when the Committee on the Supervision and Control is an independent authority, you say that you have no influence on this service, for which I, and my colleagues, are sure that you are cooperating and influencing its operation. On the other hand - if I may say so - 'fly the ball' to the Minister of Finance when you say that it is the one who decides whether or not to approve the secondment of officials to serve in this independent authority. So it is not possible for both of them to happen, that is to say, in the new abstractions, that the Minister of Finance has a say, and only the President of the independent authority can be responsible for the ending of the old distractions. That is why I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to be put away, if you like, from any shadows that fall into this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u151	Thank you. Mr Balommenakis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this draft law is an attempt to limit the phenomena of arbitraryness on the sanctuary, to ensure individual rights of bathers and general users of this public good and to exclude similar phenomena in the future. It is also true that in recent years a significant change has arisen in the status of use of the coastal area by introducing the electronic auction system, which significantly reduces cases of arbitrage and the creation of operating circuits from organised interests. These are events that the citizens are aware of and have been repeatedly welcomed by both local authorities and environmental organisations and free space movements. That is why it seems paradoxical to blame the government representatives of those parties who have been identified over time with the indifference, not to say contempt for the natural environment, who had granted huge areas in private interests and have seen the last sections of perimeter greenery, who would have also built them up and delivered large capital to the public in recent years, if the citizens' claim for free spaces had not been developed, in favour of the right ultimately to use natural goods. I am thinking of the area of the Holy Apostles west of the city of Chania, which had already been put to the eye since the 1960s, the interests that had been shared directly and unimpededly with the political power of the period, which had - and the political power of the period - already known this - and the local dimension, which was later known, even on the pan-state of PASOK, with obvious and unprecedented underground processes, became "opportunities of recovery" and which, today, thanks to the decisive and palliative movement for their salvation, are the pride of our region, a place of recreation and massation of the city of Chania. We are proud, ladies and gentlemen, - and I am addressing you in particular - that you so unscrupulously flout the Left and its struggles for the public interest - that we have been part of the struggles for free spaces. At the same time, this draft law is characterised by the necessary flexibility in the case of projects carried out to deal with natural disasters or to avoid them, for cases required of national defence or of the general interest. You have no doubt that, where exceptions are needed, these will have a justification and the justification will be in line with the spirit of this law and the Constitution of our country. There is a prospect for him to perpetuate and ultimately to abolish the old caucasus from now on. This assessment, of course, involves a change in its character, from public property to public property, but, above all, the completion of the deeds of the saint, which, as you know, is a declared objective and commitment of this government. With the finalisation of the rabbles there will no longer be a need to separate the havoc in sections depending on how it is shaped as it is to date. Citizens' dealings with the State on this matter will become more rapid and safer. In order to make a better approach to this whole issue, I would like to refer to a few assumptions that apply over time: First assumption: to date, the demarcation of the boundaries of the altar and old saints has been in many cases incomplete or not always accurate. In some cases it had also been done on the basis of rheuological criteria. Second assumption: local inspection services, i.e. residential services, were not and are not currently well equipped and do not have the necessary staff to deal with the volume of sanctuary and beach cases. Thirdly assumption: during the past period there have actually been interventions on the agialos and the beach, which we can generally classify in three categories: those that have been carried out in the very past by local authorities for ornamental purposes and basic amenities and even people's access to the sea. Many of them were subsequently leased under the pre-existing leasing scheme, through communities specifically, to individuals for business activity or had still been granted the assurances from community presidents who could give them under the scheme at the time, which complicated the ownership status and created incorrect attempts to trespass them. Any buildings or facilities on these sites are currently in existence, are still of a common character. Perhaps, though, with a narrower interpretation of these provisions, they could also be judged to be demolished, which is something we should look at. There is still the rather larger category of people who have built buildings as part of the legal building or other facilities situated in the old cavalry. I understand that under the present rules there is no possibility of acquiring ownership, but I find the point made by my colleague Mrs Karakota about traditional settlements and the need to protect their nature and their existence in the end right. For the record, it has to be said that a similar takeover option existed as long as the old cavalry was designated as part of the public private property. In view of the strictness of the provisions and the increased protection of the common character of the coastal zone, I think that in future, even with a transitional provision, the possibility of the owners of the main buildings being reserved for long-term leases should be considered in order to avoid disruption and unnecessary discomfort with third parties. It must not escape us that most of us have or have raised rights of ownership, or have challenged or challenged the designation of this area as an old shrine, and that, after many years of judicial struggles, fines have usually been imposed on them, especially in cases of small or medium-sized incomes, it is simply impossible to pay. For this reason, when examining the requests for the leasing of that part which may enter into the single haematopoly area, there should be, firstly, suspension of the obligation to pay the sums charged to them and, secondly, no new fines should be imposed for the duration of the examination, as well as the possibility of payment by means of long-term instalment payments. It will be an act of justice founded on the weaknesses of the former state-of-citizen relations system, which were not always transparent or credible, a system which, through inertia or deliberate delays, held hostages many well-predictable owners of coastal settlements. In the weaknesses of the old dispute resolution system, I think a special justification can be founded which the Council of State rightly requests in order to tolerate exceptions. To conclude, Mr President, Minister, I would also like to make a reference to the proposed amendment by the Members for a proportionate application of compensation not in general and in vaguely to the affected, but to those who had human victims. As you know, we had four cases in Eastern Crete and one in western Crete of flooding. There are provisions from Mandra and corresponding to Eye. I think it is a matter of justice for this amendment to be implemented and accepted, or later in the future, as we said before, to come up with such a provision and for this reason: In the days of natural disasters a proposal was made by Mr. Twelfths from New Democracy and it was not accepted, with certainty and the promise that legislation would come immediately. So we must now look at it in particular and be able to implement - I repeat - this fair demand in proportion to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u153	Mr Kelles, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are just one month before the self-government elections and the European elections and you are bringing another bill with a clear cuff and fragmentation. I will start from the Asian Infrastructure and Investment Bank. What's that bank? The establishment of this bank was originally decided by China and Russia, which are members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and are aimed at implementing the new 'Mexico Road', the so-called 'Zone and Road' initiative of the OBOR. Our country is taking part in OBOR via the port of Piraeus, but as soon as the KAS, which is known to be appointed by the Government, has nominated Piraeus as an area of archaeological interest. As a result, the investment of 'COSCO' and of the PPA amounting to EUR 600 million is going to be cancelled and the 'COSCO', as you know, ladies and gentlemen, is looking for an investment area in Italy. So I do not know whether ratification of the agreement really is important or whether it is part of a wider game of impression that you are trying to cultivate. Your behavior shows that you only want investment in words, but with your actions you do what you can to prevent them. The same scenario we had again last year by decision of the CAS for the Greek. Four and a half years you've been in the government and the Greek, the biggest Greek investment, still doesn't say to start. The final example of this bill is Article 24. You are amending Article 2 of Law 2971/2001 concerning the ownership of the zone between new and old saints, abolishing the private property status of the public. This is, of course, an island country such as Greece, with its huge coastline, which creates major obstacles to businesses and investors, especially industry and tourism. When Mr. Tsipras talks about development, does he mean it or does you make it out of a hobby to create problems on the private initiative? As the BSE in its memorandum points out, the provision in Article 24(5) constitutes a violation of the constitutionally-established right to property and is not presumed by the decisions of the Council of State, referring to an area of unacceptable acquisition of private rights. In addition, this regulation raises a serious issue regarding the territorial continuity of enterprises and the linking of their facilities with ports and coasts. Its interruption will cause multiple risks to the safety of workers and the social group in this area. Therefore, the area between the old and the new kayaloo should remain under the existing regime in the private property of the State and provision should be made for the possibility of granting the old hayaloo in exchange. Mrs Bakoyannis, you must take into account the amendment tabled by Mrs Bakoyannis in relation to the addition to Article 26 for property which is registered as old sanctuaries and in which there are buildings serving hotels or other tourist units. You know very well - and you are from a highly touristic prefecture - that tourism is the "heavy" industry of the country and we must strengthen it. I will come to another issue, which also raises questions. What is the purpose of the regulation in Article 36? Who will the rocky islands be granted to? I am referring to paragraph 3. A short island will be granted by simple decision of the Minister of Finance...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u155	This has been deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u156	Very good. I shall now proceed to an issue which is typical of the deception and mockery of the Greek people. What were you saying in 2012 as Opposition for shipowners? "To be taxed, drink the blood of the people." Then the New Democracy had made an agreement for 140m euros. What were you asking for? Two billion euros and now you're government. You're doing two billion today with the bill of 40 million. Do I need to say something? You don't have to. I'm closing with Article 45 of the plan. Minister, he owes the State to the private interest on interest on late payments. It was 6%. You're reducing it to 3%. He's got a good one. They owe 4 million private individuals in the public sector, another 3,000, another 50,000 euros, and they don't have to pay them. Interest rate? It's 8.76%, almost three times. Is that possible? Fortunately your days are counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much. The speech has been made by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Papanatsiou, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, it is my normal speech and I shall refer to the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u159	I just got up on the Step and I don't know if you've spoken before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u160	Because I want to analyse the amendments as well, you will give me the time it takes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u161	Sure. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill by the Ministry of Finance, first of all, Articles 1 to 7, confirms our country's accession to the Asian Infrastructure and Investment Bank. The Asian Bank is an international financial institution operating as a multilateral development bank based in Beijing. It has arrived and consists of seventy member countries around the world, and twenty-three states, including Greece, are in the status of an approved candidate. The constant pursuit of national economic policy is the cooperation and participation of Greece in all major international financial institutions, aiming at financial support for high added value investment projects and the development of beneficial partnerships for the Greek economy. This is the purpose of Greece's accession agreement as a member of the Asian Bank, which we are dominating in this bill. Also, in Articles 8, 9 and 10 of the bill, the directive of the European Union 2016/1065 on the definition and application of the term ‘guns’, known to all of us vouchers, used in economic transactions is incorporated into our national law. This determines the coupon of a specific purpose and the multi-purpose coupon and specifies what the tax obligation is for VAT purposes of these two instruments of financial transactions. Article 35-38 incorporates Directive 2016/1164 of the European Union laying down rules against evasion practices which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market. In particular, a 30% rate is set for the possibility of deducting the excessive cost of borrowing taxpayers and for taxable profits, before interest, impairment taxes and depreciation of the taxpayer. Furthermore, the definition of controlled foreign companies in accordance with the provisions of the Directive is recast and it is noted that the concept of connected persons includes natural persons. A general rule prohibiting abuse is also incorporated within us, according to which the administration does not take into account an arrangement or a series of arrangements which have as their object the object or purpose of tax provisions being circumvented. Let us come to the question of Article 45. What does this article say? First of all, I would like to make it clear here that the new provisions that we are proposing do not concern all cases of alleged repayment of public claims, but there are exceptions. In particular, let's see what's not about, first of all. First of all, they do not concern the alleged repayment of taxes unduly paid. And what are these unduly paid taxes? They are income taxes on natural and legal persons, withheld taxes, VAT and all other taxes on the public to citizens. In addition, where a public contract has been legally entered into, a specific provision on the interest rate applied has been included. So what we are voting on today is not included here. Thirdly, the claims of individuals relying on specific and directly applicable provisions of Union law which explicitly and precisely determine the amount of the interest rate. So where does this interest rate come from today? It shall apply to actions for damages against the general public. It's the only point that applies to this interest rate. And now let's see a little how it is shaped and the interest rate on citizens' due debts to the public. At the time of settlement, which are not regulated, we have 8.76% or 0.73% every month, and if the debtor is in the arrangement, the interest rate is 5%. Don't create a picture - and I don't know what happens - of interest rates. Articles 46 and 47 regulate the concessions of public property to two municipalities, the Municipality of Kalamata and the Municipality of Kozani. Thus, under Article 46 is granted without consideration to the Municipality of Kalamata for ninety-nine years the use, management and exploitation of part of the public property located on the west beach of Kalamata, in the location of Kordia. The concession is made for the construction by the municipality of sports facilities, the development of new parking areas, the creation of green areas and generally the renovation and development of the area. Article 47 also grants the Municipality of Kozani the use of the area of the former "Psychoyi" Camp, for nine years, and to them, with a view to exploiting the licensed area with uses such as recreation, culture, sport, a municipal school space. And we come to Article 48, following on from previous measures to support those affected by last summer's fires, to whom we granted HICPIA discharge. We are now coming to bring it back to 2019, in addition to the year 2018 for which the discharge was already in force. We note that this exemption other than those affected by the Attica Region also extends to the perpetrators of the Corinth Regional Unit. It is also laid down in this Regulation that the exemption of HPAI may be granted provided that the owners of the property hold a re-check or autopsy report or a register of autopsy of a dangerously prepared building of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Article 49 amends the VAT Code and clearly defines the place of taxation for VAT purposes of the service transport of goods and of the leases of professional pleasure boats. Article 50 harmonizes the treatment of the newly heated tobacco product with other tobacco products. Article 52 stipulates that the extinction of the tax liability of the beneficiaries on special wages includes a contribution of solidarity. Before I begin with that part of the haystack, I should like to refer to the amendments. Thus, in Amendment No 2087 and in Amendment No 277 concerning the General Accounting Office of the State, the proposed provision amends the powers of the Independent Department of Extended Financial Programs of the Directorate-General for Control of Co-financed Projects of the General Accounting Office of the State in order to bring about full harmonisation with the legal framework which defines the powers of the Audit Authority. The problem found in the application of the regulation proposed by the amendment was the risk of mobilising nullities in the audit procedure of the audit authority followed by appeals. It is thus intended to ensure the validity of the audits carried out by the Committee on Budgetary Control. The other article on this amendment proposes to extend until 30 April the deadlines for the issue of clearing orders, regular and pre-paid, and to carry out regular accounting records. We have already asked for an extension, and it has not been possible to complete it, and we are therefore calling for a second one which is now going until 30 April. In Amendment No 2089, with a general number of 2089 and a special number of 278 for small distillers, we come to give an opportunity to make their products available to the cotton producers. We're not talking about producers. Producers who are the two-day, the ones who boil the chicory or the raccoon, are normally kept in the arrangement. Here those who hold the mushrooms and make distances on behalf of others, because the rights that had been taken into the product, give them the opportunity, because we are putting some undertakings for reasons, first of all, health - it is very important and it is very important that those who will consume the bulk of the product that we have made some commitments - with this logic that we now give them a time of time to be able to make available their products for a year. Of course, they must declare their stocks in the fund, as well as in time they must have completed the sale of the stocks. In the second article of the same amendment, we have arrangements for the EBRD reserve fund. Under the current legislation, the company "Greek Tourist Real Estate S.A." was required to form a special reserve of 12.5% of the value of the right to administer and manage the assets acquired by the EOT. The creation of this special reserve fund was not subject to any taxation and it was stated that after 10 years of the publication of the law, this special reserve fund may be capitalised by a decision of the general meeting of the shareholders of the company. Since the above provisions were subsequently repealed by Law No.4389/2016, it becomes necessary to re-establish the possibility of capitalisation, to distribute this special reserve capital and to expressly state that the relevant provisions of the Income Tax Code do not apply in this case. The third point of Amendment No 2089 concerns the sworn accountants. It is the amendment of Article 193 of L.4389. On the basis of the Community directive, which was incorporated into Law 4449/2017, it can offer its services as a chartered accountant for up to five years and repeat its duties after two years. We now come to harmonize this in the provisions of Article 193. There it is foreseen that the company may not elect the same auditor or audit firm for more than three consecutive years. And we are increasing from three to five years for the period for which the same auditor or the audit firm can be elected, so that we do not have a different approach within two laws. And in Amendment No 2090, and number 2079, we come to resolve very important issues relating to HICPIA and the E9 real estate data statements. What are we doing here? For property data statements submitted from 1-1-2019 we give a sufficient time to taxpayers to submit declarations E9 and avoid misinterpretation of the end date for submission of declarations. The proposed amendments allow taxpayers to rectify their assets by submitting the E9 declarations without imposing fines, while for the sake of equitableness, the non-enforcement of fines which have not been established in corresponding cases since the end of 2014 is regulated. Why are we coming to put this arrangement now? We are now coming to put this regulation, because many taxpayers, many of our fellow people, many citizens going to the Stock Exchange and in order to make the correct display of their property, have seen too many differences with the E9 that the accountants had drawn up. And we believe that, in the context of good administration, until the register is completed and in every area to be completed at the same time, the E9 of each taxpayer should be completed. We have had cases where, for the number of supplies or for some very small things - not either square or anything else for the E9, which changes the value of HPAI - the taxpayer should be fined. With the second paragraph of this amendment, we are bringing the proportionate traffic charges. We know them every year. We want to give those citizens - because Easter is coming now and in the summer - who cannot or do not want their cars to have throughout the year, with lower traffic charges proportionally for a month, the sum of 2/12 will be paid, for three months, the 4/12 will be paid and for use for the remaining months until the end of the year, the twelfths remaining plus 2/12 will be paid. Any person who needs it due to the immobilisation in the year 2019 may pay the traffic charges proportionately for the remaining months by the end of the year in order to return the signs to him. With the amendment of Article 12 of Law 4530/2018 - this concerns taxis - the way in which the entities providing brokering services are to issue tax documents, as well as entities operating TAX operators, in accordance with the applicable tax provisions of Greek accounting standards, are defined. In particular, there are questions as to how the remuneration of the mediators should be paid. In addition, the remuneration for both cases should be clear in the proof. We are also amending Article 33 of the CEDEFOP. Up to now, where a third party has a public debt to a person and fails to make a statement within eight days of the State's performance, it ends up having to owe all the amount owed to the public even where its debt to him is less or is not such a debt. Under the new provisions, the third party becomes a public debtor only for what is due or to be due, i.e. the public debtor, since this results from appropriate electronic means available to the tax administration. We also amend Article 13 of Law 4211/2013, i.e. the TECF. The second paragraph also seeks to allow for 2019 the persons liable to pay TESA the opportunity to benefit from the advance payment and for vessels in Greek territorial waters at the time of the first implementation of the TESA, on 9-5-2019. The discount shall be granted if the total fee due for 2019 for May to December is paid until 18-5-2019. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, I also need time to analyse the part concerning the cavalry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u163	You still have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u164	It's not enough for three minutes. I would like at least ten minutes, Mr President, because various issues have been raised and you will allow me to refer to all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u165	Can any of the parliamentarians accept it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u166	Mrs Theleritis' amendment concerning Corinth is accepted by the parliamentary amendments. I don't remember the number. When I get down, I'll tell you. For the amendment by Mrs Vayonakis and Mr Balomenaki - because there had to be evidence from the General Accounting Office of the State - we should see it in a later ministerial amendment. We're not negative. We see her positively. We can't now accept it because we don't have the evidence from the State's General Accounting Office. The amendment by a general number 2080 and a specialist from Mrs Theleritis, Mr Choga and Mr Psychoyou, is accepted. We believe that the provisions on the altar are one of the most important parts of the draft law under discussion. The model of development adopted post-war by the Greek state did not follow the model of the social state, such as in the other European countries in spatial, urban and environmental planning, economic parameters in this area, social housing programmes, a policy of preserving the historical heritage and the creation of an extensive public transport network. This option may initially be in response to the post-Morocco social and labour needs and gaining the mass popular consensus, but at the same time it has shaped the preconditions for bridging policies that prejudge the public against the private interest and promote the collective vision of the city and the harmonious urban and rural relationship. Since then, the abusive benefits of the state - the state that you have created all these years - collective goods, such as the right to build and to tolerate arbitraryness, in all its possible versions, have been its only stable relationship with the private sector in terms of urban, residential and environmental issues. Because from a choice, gentlemen, I mean Census and KINAL - you have done what has happened and you are politically accountable as factions. You are accountable for the vision of the building coefficient, the demolition of the preservers, the arbitrary construction and use of the perimeter land, even of the sanctuary, forests and streams that met with the vision of the Olympic Games, in an extreme contempt for any collective commitment to the community, the public space and the future. There's enough photography in the Ministry at your disposal, whenever you want us to give it to you. You are accountable for the arbitrary construction, as your state policy of the breast and carrot was best expressed, which in short meant identifying the arbitrary, silent tolerance, sound cooperation with all kinds of principles and ultimately clearing legalisation, which at the same time led to an increase in state and not just income through fines. You are accountable for why your party'storey air': fantasy and often they were profitable. You're accountable for stirring up Machiavism with the concrete milk. Colleagues and colleagues, we must all sincerely say in all directions that such a scale environmental and residential burdens that have occurred in our country over the last fifty years are not easily reversible, although climate change requires them. There is a need for generalised overthrows of large scale that require time, public resources, space and new consciences, and I could also say cross-party consensus on self-evident issues. In any case, we choose this road, the difficult one, the drug-treated one in advance, with problems of a historical nature. At the beginning of the road now we are. Of course, many regulations have already been put in place by the Ministry of the Environment and other relevant ministries, while many are under way. We are on the road, either marginally or with half or one step ahead, but we do not go back to protecting the seaside and the beach and their sharedness. Ladies and gentlemen, today's proposed regulations mainly address the challenge of environmental and ownership protection of public rights in the Aegean and other common areas, in the direction of increasing their sharedness, the avoidance of new arbitrages, which are now a critical dimension to climate change, but also taking into account needs that have arisen and constantly appear and concern socio-economic and developmental parameters. Some important areas are being attempted in the legislation governing the Aegean Sea, the beach, in favour of the commonwealth, some interventions to restore them even partially or even partially marginal failures of the past and a uniform transparent way of protecting the sensitive surroundings of the Aegean Sea and other common areas, while at the same time ensuring the absolutely necessary activities, for which the use of the Aegean is an inappropriate condition for their exercise. And all this, I repeat, on sedated ground by uncertainties, arbitrariness, slavery and pressures of every kind, historical many times. I shall refer a little more specifically to the speeches we make. I mentioned before the law school we did about the beach. The width of the beach that is valid until now is up to 50 meters. It shall therefore specify the maximum, without specifying the minimum, which could be one or two measures. The proposed provision indicates that the minimum width of the beach may not be less than thirty metres, except in cases where geomorphological and specific characteristics make it necessary. The combination of this definition with local spatial plans is also introduced for the first time. The positive effect of this arrangement in favour of sharing is evident. Here we have some special regimes in specific areas, such as the Dodecanese. We will see these in next legislation. I would like here to mention, in order to avoid any worry, that paragraph 5 of Law 2971, the article in Law 4281/2014 on cases where a town plan exists and the coastline of the beach cannot exceed the approved building line. In traditional settlements, the line of the beach cannot exceed the building line, as it has legally been formed. In cities and settlements created before the year 1923, they have a population of less than two thousand, the coastline of the beach cannot exceed the shaped building line, as it has legally been formed. It is explicitly for the first time for the construction of buildings and in general for the construction of structures on the seabed, the beach, the bank, the adjacent zone, the water element, the bottom and the ground of the seabed, the lagoon, the lake and the riverbed. The competence of the TAs is introduced, according to which each municipality is obliged to have access to at least one beach on its administrative boundaries. To date there was no similar provision in the law of the sanctuary. For the first time, there is also a compulsory free passage from the public road to the cavalry, when private property is included between the saint and the public road. In particular, with the proposed provisions, following the adoption of this draft law, the old hagiulus determined or redefined after the entry into force of the provision ceases to belong to the private property of the State and belongs to the public property. It is unacceptable to acquire private rights and is now recorded as a public matter owned by the public. There is bipolarism here with regard to KINAL. On the one hand, we are accused of leaving the private right to the public behind by the KINAL rapporteur and, on the other hand, we hear from a representative of KINAL, Mr Carras, that he is calling for the consortium of the old sanctuary of a particular region. Let them tell us what they want. We believe that this provision is a real part of the legal status of the old knight. We now have unified and integrated ecosystem management of the three so far unclear concepts: agialos, beach, old agialos. We maintain some projects with strict conditions. With regard to the maintenance of projects, which have been implemented and operated legally under development laws, a condition for the maintenance of the project is to comply with the applicable environmental licensing legislation and we want the agreed opinions of the Ministry of the Environment, the relevant Ministry and the General Secretariat, as well as the static adequacy, which the previous law did not ask for. The provision shall be strict and expressly stated that the retention and further concession shall be made only in return for consideration. We have the necessary protection works. I will not go any further, there has been a lot of discussion in the committees. I think none of us disagree in here. As far as anti-corrosion works and emergency projects are concerned, we must intervene and that has not been in the previous law at all, we all have to deal with it because, as I have said, we have very serious problems because of climate change. We are amending the framework for the sharing, the granting of simple use of hay. The most common use of the hayalus and the beach is this simple use to place umbrellas and sunbeds, marine recreational means, self-propelled or trailer cantins. However, it has been found that the mere use framework has several problems due to many ambiguities. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, I will be done in two minutes. These ambiguities create malfunctions, thereby encouraging arbitrary and illegality. Our aim is to extend, as far as possible, the granting of simple use of the sanctuary by electronic auctions so that, on the one hand, the procedure is absolutely impracticable, as well as to extend electronic auctions and concessions from the municipalities for the same reasons. Another innovative one is the consideration that is now objectively defined and therefore impartial. We have adjustments and limitations on concessions for project construction. In addition to anti-corruption works, provision is made for the possibility of granting the use of the sanctuary to public or private bodies to carry out projects which, by their nature, cannot function without the use of the saint. These may be for the purposes of mutual benefit, environmental protection, maritime, research, regeneration of industrial, mining, transport, port, shipbuilding repairers, fishing and energy. And here is something different that existed in the previous law, and there is no now, that there are no works in the cavalry for tourist and commercial purposes. Provision is made for the possibility of granting use for projects which have been manufactured without the necessary permits in the cavalry provided that they are able to obtain the concession for the use of the saint. We're not talking about buildings. We're talking about projects. These should be constructed before 28 July 2011 and belong to specific categories listed in the draft law. We asked why the municipalities didn't come here. You know, all that we bring to this bill is after demanding the municipalities of the whole country. Municipalities throughout the country have such issues. These are all those who have brought us all these issues. They are explicitly excluded from the license of any kind of dwellings, any kind of shops, including commercial and health care, such as camping, tourist accommodation in general and hotel units. That means, if they're illegal or have some facilities on the cavalry, they'll be demolished. The only hotel units that can have the concession to the cauliflower are those that were made by the public or the EOT or on their behalf, such as the historical "XENIA" of the EOT. We could not bring the regulations of 2971/2001 into line with the sanctuary and the beach and leave him in peace with what he has solved, but also what he left at the mercy of the accident, the historically incomplete, of all kinds of arbitrary and trespassers, as well as the constant hostage of many others, by closing eyes in the hundreds or thousands of demands - ask all mayors indiscriminately of color and clubs of undiscriminate purpose - just or absurd many times and by not giving persuasive answers, at least in any case, whether they like them or not. We could do this by listening to the realistic advice of some of our colleagues who know more than we do and only look at the carvings. I will not go into the joys again. I referred to the answer to Mr. Maniots' question. We are talking about acts and omissions of decades that sometimes succumb to strategic choices and which have led to all these arbitrary practices that indirectly and unwisely confess that they have also been hypocritically denounce us with specific media how we go to legitimise, as if all this had been done for SYRIZA days. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all these citizens know. They know that at least we will try to find a solution, not always pleasurable to everyone, not perhaps always without mistakes, not always in time, but with obedient ears for corrections. That is why they are insulting and hoping for SYRIZA, because they know what has happened in the past by exquisite technocrats and supposedly obedients. Mostly, however, because they know that any solution is fair and will be without gifts and consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u167	We had 30-six-minute record time, Mrs. Papanachius. There is one problem, however: we have spent the time of legislative work and we have entered the time of parliamentary scrutiny. In other words, Members have come for parliamentary scrutiny. So you need to talk, Mr. Manda, to start parliamentary scrutiny and then vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u168	Can't we finish it first?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u169	It's not because the rest of you have to wait. And the ministers are two. In any case, we still have time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, thirty students and students and three trainers from the Gymnasium of Kastelio Minoa Pedias. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u171	Here you go, Mrs. Papanatsiou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u172	I would like to table some verbal legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u173	Mr Christos Mandas has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. I will start my intervention with a number of remarks and a number of general issues, because I think Mrs Papanatziou has, in fact, made an exhaustive presentation of the bill and I think she has solved many questions. So, in the piece of the bill, I will only be content with some examples to understand what important things change the next day. First of all, there is a real division that I found in the public word of the New Democracy, in particular with Mr Teddy's intervention. Mr. Dendias defended Article 24 of the Constitution with such passion, which I would suggest in the next four years of SYRIZA, where the process of constitutional revision will also be completed, the rapporteur being Mr. Denkias, in particular for Article 24 of the Constitution. I just want to remind you that it was one of the three or four crucial articles that, at the last turn of the debate on the Constitution, Mr Mitsotakis had called on us to change. Because ideologically the New Democracy considers that Article 24 and respect for the rules on the environment, as well as archaeology in general, are the obstacles to development. This is what New Democracy finds as a barrier to development. Observation second against Mr. Maniotis and what he said. I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that in desperation Mr Maniotis has spoken to us in a very intense way, as if he were talking about what he was talking about, his speech was very strong - the political leadership of KINAL, which wants to embrace and support what Mr Mitsotakis has just said on the next day. Because they fantasize that the next day is going to be a day when they're coming to support the first right. That's how they fantasize. I would simply point out that this version, in particular Mr Maniatis, which spoke with a rhetoric of fanaticism and confusion at the same time, has nothing to do with the assessments and views of European social democracy once again. But that looks like they don't care, they don't care. In what environment are we talking about today this bill which, in fact, Minister and fellow Members, is a large bill and a complex bill? It's not simple. In order to understand, particularly in certain provisions, where we are and where we are going, I would say that it is not just the debate in this House. I would suggest you codify as a ministry in a way and the changes that are taking place. I will say in what direction changes are being made and I think this is very critical. There is a general confusion and I shall refer to that. Before, however, I would like to say two - three words about what we are talking about in the environment at the moment. In many respects an impression has been given, I think out of reality, if I may say so, that we are in the face of the collapse of everything. Once again, catastrophe and selective reading of reality do not allow many opposition parties - and the Civic Opposition in particular in KINAL, secondly - to understand where we are. Today, then, the yield of the ten-year bond is at 3.29%. It's the lowest for 15 years. How do we do it? That doesn't make sense to what that means? Do not understand what it means when the index on the Athens Stock Exchange ended at 766 points. High nine months of age 26% more and stronger start-up for two decades. Third element. Did you not understand that in recent weeks, firstly, it was returned to near EUR 1 billion by the retentions of Greek bonds? From morning to night you said it wouldn't happen. Didn't you realize that this thing became a reality, along with the last day? In other words, the acceptance by the International Monetary Fund of the Greek Government's proposal to repay some of the loans from the International Monetary Fund. This means taking an important step forward in the discharge of dependency - as you would like to say - from the International Monetary Fund. That is, to relieve our country, the Greek taxpayer of tens, hundreds of millions of dollars that he was paying for an expensive interest rate. This gave a strong signal to the markets and a strong signal to investors. It is also an effective policy for the everyday life of the ordinary Greek. Because when the state, the state, is lightened by such burdens, everyday life changes. It may not be done automatically, but it is a steady course, a course that no objective observer can only capture. The entire Eurozone is slowing down. In our country the forecast for this year and year - without this being a triumph and a success story - is far above the Eurozone average. I didn't hear you talk about it. There were other proportions before. What do I mean? I would like to say that when we have a debate and a political controversy, we have to do it with all the facts. Because, too many times, of this fencer of the systemic media and the sworn enemies of the Left who have flooded everything, nobody can understand exactly what is happening and where the truth is, at least in the Greek Parliament, we can tell truths. To tell the reality of the whole thing. Don't we have any hardships? Very serious. Big wounds to the social body. Big problems. A lot of delay in the development of the country for a new productive model that we want, we want and we have important signs of improvement in it. Not to say what the proportion of tourist enterprises was in the past and how it has now changed dramatically in favour of processing. Is that how it's done? God? Auto? It's a specific policy. So in this environment, we are also discussing this bill. In fact, the first part of the bill is in this direction. In other words, our country's accession to the Asian Investment Bank is a step forward. No doubt. It was said from all sides. We are integrated into major projects. Our country is a portal of entry into Europe with credibility. And that's what this is all about. And that's not self-evident either. They don't even become automatic. It is therefore a very specific sample, the first part of the bill, which, as I understand it, will be voted on from all sides, as will many other provisions. At the end of the day we will understand that too many of the provisions we bring with the essential contribution of the opposition parties, the essential contribution of the Members of the House and the substantial contribution of the bodies, will be at the end of the day in my opinion and, in our opinion, a very positive draft law. I shall close, Mr President, as soon as I can. The regulations of the bill on the Hayalus - which has caused great turbulence, I would say, and to a certain extent confusion, if I may - I think they will be on a very positive side. I'm going to set an example. Where did it get more criticism? The greatest criticism was made in two main articles, Article 34 and Article 24. We had two choices. We'd either hide our head in the sand or make arrangements like that so we wouldn't hide our heads in the sand. I am not talking about the others, who are absolutely positive. I'm talking about problems. Between 2001, 2011 and then there is a reality. And we can't hide in her. I am saying an example of what we are regulating before 28 July. A legal fishing shelter was built. He has received permissions from the law, environmental studies, assents from the departments, ministries, etc. However, because he has delayed bureaucracy, he has not been able to obtain the concession from the Ministry of Finance. Because the whole debate is about the terms of the concessions from the Ministry of Finance. That's what we're talking about. So, what exactly are we going to do with this fishing shelter? What do you suggest? Shouldn't we say there is? Destroy it? We say that in such cases we should give an option, if they fulfil the conditions, to be legalized. What do we want to do? Finally, I think that also with the legislative improvements and with the withdrawal of the 24b that has tortured us very much - the Minister and all the partners who have dealt with this - it is much better, it seems, at the end of the day, to study very specifically what things we are talking about and bring it in a more precise way to legislate. I think that's right. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. I broke my promise by a minute. I think that the next day, in particular, the issues of the regulation of the cavalry, are clearly in a positive direction, clearly in the direction of defending the environment and solving existing problems, for which we cannot put our heads in the sand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theories of thirty-nine students and a professor from the Athens School of Law. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We have already entered the programme for today's parliamentary control year. So anyway there will be a vote after the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u176	What vote, Mr President? We need to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u177	Don't rush, Mr. Kutsuko. We shall either now proceed to parliamentary scrutiny and follow the vote or you will speak after parliamentary scrutiny and the vote will follow. Which one do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u178	We've been here since the morning, and we need ten or fifteen minutes to finish the bill. We have said to the rapporteurs - I, at least - that we will speak as we are entitled to, and then we will enter the vote. Now what do you propose to us, Mr President? To stop the legislative work, to end parliamentary scrutiny, so that the Minister, who was kind enough to come, can leave. My ministers, Mr. Chakalotos and the Minister of Health have not been coming for six months. Is that what you're suggesting? Because the Bureau has not been able to deal with the procedure and has given Mrs Papanatsiou three quarters? I personally do not accept it. You can make any decision you want, ask the other party rapporteurs, but I personally do not accept it. With all due respect to those who are waiting and I know that among them my colleague is for an interesting time, Theodore Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u179	All right, Mr. Comrade. We must incorporate legislative techniques tabled by the Minister. As a matter of fact, the vote cannot be taken at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u180	What if we didn't have parliamentary control?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u181	It cannot be done now, because we do not have what we call the 'infection' of the bill. They have to fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u182	The vote cannot be taken. It's not ready. The vote cannot be taken by any means. So since the vote cannot be taken, or we will do everything after, or we will talk now, it will be interrupted and then we will continue with the vote. One of us will.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u183	I would like the debate to be concluded, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u184	To conclude the debate. I have no objections. One of the two, then. You want the first one? To be the first. Mr. Pavlides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, I will respect time and make sure I am brief. I have not had much intention of speaking again, but with what he has heard from some representatives of the Opposition, I am sincerely surprised. We heard rosphetology, scandals, secret provisions. I was looking at who my colleague was caught with the sprout on his back. That's how I felt. I think that some issues do not respond in political terms either, but rather in terms of psychiatric investigation. We cannot at the same time blame ourselves for creating a minimum limit on the beach, at thirty metres, on conditions, of course, and with respect for local spatial plans, or for the fact that there is an over-protecting of old saints, passing them from private property to public property, and there can be problems in this, so there is a predetermined legislative over-protection of public space and, at the same time, being accused of selling it all, we have given it all up, I quote, words just as they have been heard. I'm starting with Mr. Vardalis, with some places he's made. Firstly, we do not legalise arbitraryly. We are managing and giving the right, the license - because we are talking about granting use - to specific categories of operations, which, anyway, if they could be done today, could be licensed under existing environmental licensing. Whatever it can't even today with the current environmental permit to get a concession, it won't get even if it was in the past. Secondly, citizens' access is restricted. We have legislated for three four points, where citizens' access - barely increased, we find passages from the public road to the beach, we extend the free space to 50 square meters of the concession of saints from OTAs and a thousand other issues. Third, we don't sell ecosystems. We grant uses to NATURA areas, to have a very specific NATURA framework, and, of course, there is obviously the right to mild use in NATURA areas, it is very specific and strict, and I do not think that everyone is very much legalised in the Greek Parliament to speak in a way, giving some idea that we are selling out ecosystems. We are giving the NATURA areas the capital with an irresponsible policy, in my opinion, which does not respond either to the specific framework of the legislation or to the existing legislative framework for these very sensitive environments. And in the end I hear, and here I am reminded that we are giving 60% of the revenue to the OTA as an incentive and that other things will be sold out. This has always been the case, the municipalities have always received 60% and the public in 40%, and indeed because I am in self-government for many years, I am one of those who said that the percentage taken by the Land Office and indeed the public should be reduced, because the municipalities have very specific obligations toward the beach, to clean it up, to put lifeguards, to manage the blue flag and a thousand other issues. In this sense, therefore, always talking about the concession of the saint to the municipalities - and therefore to the umbrellas and other uses - the municipality always received a very large proportion of this use for functional management needs of the beach. We have heard here about environmental hypocrisy, anesthesia, that we are unexploited environmentally and all that. I'll say some key four points as titles. We are setting a minimum of thirty metres of beach - we did not do so today - on conditions of course and with a matching to local spatial plans. The old cavalry and the old bank belong from now on not to the private property of the public sector but to public property. We create mandatory access to the cavalry from a public road, if there are properties in between. Priority for usage before all with environmental approvals and permits by the Ministry of Environment and Energy and not only by decisions of the Minister of Finance, as we heard here in 2011, two years before submitting an application for authorisation and an exemption from demolition, then - within a six-month period - those that cannot be incorporated into the law are regarded as definitively arbitrary and demolished within six months and a thousand two others. The framework is very strict for cavalry sharing. We are broadening the sharing, avoiding new arbitrariness and confronting problems and diseases of the past. Finally, because Mr. Dendias raised a matter in relation to the fact that we hide in the bill a thousand two things. I think the bill had five parts - tiring - but the three of them, the first, the second and the third part were the Development Bank and compliance with European directives and regulations, and only the fifth concerned tax and customs outstandings. And the dominant part was the cavalry, which is why the overwhelming majority of speeches and all colleagues dealt with the fourth part and nothing else. I conclude by mentioning only two issues. The first for Mr Georgiadis, because his opportunistic political perception is known.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u186	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u187	I shall conclude, Mr President. On the subject of the university-sponsored research at Columbia, I think that Mr Georgiadis should not speak, who is a key representative of political opportunism. I know that on the basis of the statements, he should be in the family today and abroad, after he lost the referendum and SYRIZA rejoined the elections, as he said in September 2015. Rather, he should be a resident outside and not in the country - not to mention statements about the New Democracy as 'he does not have the brakes safely, he is paranoid, a drug addict who thinks I will join the New Democracy' and much more. I shall now end, and I think it is important. In my opinion, Mr. Maniot's position was outrageous. Mr. Maniotis has a view that we probably went through the Neolithic era in SYRIZA rule. There was no transitional political, institutional, administrative stage. Just from the culture of the neolithic era we passed to SYRIZA governance. In the intervening period there was a forty-year-old population and in this forty-year-old population some had to carry Land registers, regulations for sanctuary, demolition regulations. Nothing has been kept. The political horror about Mandras and about the Eye with it is precisely about it. With the fact - and we heard representatives of BSE in the consultation that they put on the issue - that there were large investments in development law, which could not even obtain environmental approval, whether for institutional devastatements or for other types of suspicious transactions. I conclude by saying that for all those who accuse us of all this, let them be apologised here, what they have demolished, what flooding projects have done in Attica over the last 40 years, so that we can speak on an equal footing. I conclude by dedicating the lyrics of Manolis Anagnostakis: "I fear the people who are overtaken by their nest, unfortunately, struggling to find stains on yours." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u188	Thank you. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor and you have the floor for five minutes. Let's keep the time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would again like to refer to the good legal practice which this government does not seem to be very much counting on. Legislative improvements were submitted which we received a moment ago, and could have been given to the parties since Friday, given that the discussion procedure in the Committee on Economic Affairs had been completed since Thursday. We also see the paradox, that the government should table amendments and then withdraw them. I would like to refer to the legislative improvement in Article 36, which amends Law 2971/2001 on the concession of islands of the public and shallow marine areas. The original layout, as presented in the bill, enabled the granting of rock islands. As I have pointed out in the discussions in the Committee on Economic Affairs, not only did this provision overturn the existing institutional framework, but we would also have had much more serious problems. This is because to date it is not permitted to grant short islands, whereas, for the concession of islands, reefs, spectacles and sea land, it was foreseen that it should have expressed its agreement beforehand and laid down the conditions for the concession of the General Staff of Navy. By including rock islands as part of the concession of islands, reefs, steep and intangible marine land, the Government appears not to have taken into account the fact that there are rock islands belonging to sensitive national areas. I am pleased that the legal improvement submitted by the Ministry of Finance has been excluded from the granting of short islands. I would also like to see clarification from the Minister in relation to Article 41, which provides for the demolition, within six months, of all constructions which prevent free access to the cavalry and the beach. You must tell us what this provision includes, but also how and for which areas it will be activated. I also consider the government's mistaken and institutional abode that it has bypassed the consultation procedure on the drafting of the bill the Technical Chamber of Greece, as is apparent from today's statements by Mr Stasinou's President. The fact that SYRIZA's administration of the Technical Chamber is not partyly controlled by the SYRIZA does not give you the right to circumvent an institution. I would also like to make a reference to the provisions of Article 60, which clarifys the framework for the possibility of carrying out exceptional management checks on the management of the supervised bodies of the Ministry of Finance. We would also consider it right to harmonise the disciplinary control of the officials of the Ministry of Finance, the disciplinary rules applicable to the disciplinary control of the officials of the AACC. However, there are some questions related to the functionality of implementing this provision. The first is whether the staffing and level of preparedness of the internal control unit of the Ministry of Finance is sufficient. In particular, the Heads of Operational Organic Units at the address or sub-direction level deal with matters of particular importance and gravity. At the time when these provisions were laid down, we do not know whether the officials at the internal control unit could fulfil the specific tasks. As regards the civil liability provisions, it did not specify in which cases it had civil liability vis-à-vis the State, and under which conditions the provisions of Article 38 of Law 3528/2007 apply. Three questions have to be answered: Who determines the damage, on what criteria and on what actions. And, of course, I would point out that, in the case at hand for AIA staff under Article 64(1) of Law No 4603/2019, it was precisely that cases of civil liability solely on the part of the State and only if they act by fraud, without any reference being made to the provisions of Article 38 of the Staff Code, which means direct apportionment. So here we have a different treatment of the officials of the Ministry of Finance than those of the ADP. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, as it always does, operates documentarily and constructively in the parliamentary process. He did the same in the bill we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, too. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u191	I shall begin with the SYRIZA revolutionary court, which has been repeated by his parliamentary representative, Mr Mandas, since the Step of the House. SYRIZA, in the face of his deadlock and his attempt to hide behind the so-called 'progressive alliance', systematically alters the positions of the Change Movement, as it cannot be understood that the conditions that will determine developments in our country, after the next elections, will be different and will be different, because the Change Movement - as we hope - will have a decisive role in the developments, in order to reverse the bonds that SYRIZA has accumulated with its policy, the constant austerity policy, the anemic development, the policy of over-taxation that engulfs society and the middle class. This policy today is implemented by the SYRIZA and by Mr Tsipras, tomorrow, it will be implemented by Mr Mitsotakis if any of the people give him the opportunity to exercise power. And that is what we want to change, which is why we are talking about a strategic defeat of this policy and a strategic victory of our own policy. These are very clear and do not accept SYRIZA's systemic strands. Mrs Papanatsiou has made an ambitious effort, through the legislative changes, in order to correct some things from the bill. I want to praise her for this effort. We're not one of those miserable people who don't recognize anything when it's done. In the final analysis, Mr President, we believe that, because most of these remarks belong to my party and to my position, my and Mr Manatis. I shall refer specifically to these legislative improvements. However, what we cannot accept, Minister, is the enclave of all this, that 'you have destroyed the place and we are correcting it', because I will repeat what I said in my speech, that you are doing what you are complaining about, that is to say you are giving the opportunity to legitimise a new generation of arbitrarities from 2001 to 2011. The only thing acceptable to us would be the extension of the regulation of arbitrariness or of the non-legislative establishments which had taken place until 2001, which was the law that you have changed. There's nothing else to do with that. So I must point out that you are going to find a positive solution to what I said at the expense of the citizens, namely the definition in a way that did not accept any doubts about the width of the beach in thirty metres, as you do, in my opinion - in part - of the arbitrary nature of Article 24, which affected property and rights in the old cavalry with the new provision that you have added and which says that what has been done so far with the provisions of this draft law is not affected. I hold them as two positive from your actions. The improvements, however, to the title of Articles 28 and 34 do not alter the nature of these provisions as I have described to date, rather than - I repeat - the improvements which I recognize them as positive and a part of which I also want to believe, because I have told you that you have to remove it. We will therefore stick to our objections. I would also like to point out that you have not made any improvement to Article 37 in the algorithm. Everyone told you that this algorithm cannot be based on objective values rather than on real values. I will also say two words for the amendments. You're trying to solve the problem of mucous membranes. Just for this year? So next year what will people do? What are they gonna do with the raccoon and the racquet they have? Are they gonna drink it? They can't drink that much. So you've got to make the device fixed. Yes, but he's incomplete. In the other amendments, with some objections, we will be positive. I would also like to close - to be in time - to criticise your behaviour, which has not accepted an amendment tabled by Mr Carras and following on from what Mr Tsipras has said, in order to give the people of Heidari to the sea and to my own amendment for the Municipality of Heidaris for the many years. I told you in committee - I will repeat, Mr Manda - that in Amalada, Mr. Tsipras, we welcomed him, he came inaugurated, we accepted him in the city hall, we did not prejudice him, we did not exaggerate him, we are hospitable people, we have taken the floor. The Municipality of Ilida is trying to get Amaliada the seaside area, I have tabled five times an amendment and Mrs Papanatsiou did not accept it, as she does to all of them in other municipalities. Is he punishing us for being PASOK? I think you're making a very big mistake. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Bardalis, you didn't ask for the floor. Are you asking him now? About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u195	I did not ask him, I ask him now - based on the evolution of the debate - for my denunciation
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u196	Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u197	There was an attempt, especially, by the SYRIZA rapporteur, to avoid the essence of criticism under the pretext "I don't understand what the KKE and the others said" that the party in this bill. This is specific. New Democracy is coming out and not just the Change Movement and they are told: You have taken an effort that we started with the bill that he had downloaded in 2014 with Minister of Finance, Mr Stournara, with some changes up and you bring this legislation today. We are telling them that we agree, that our country's accession to the Asian Infrastructure and Investment Bank is in a positive direction. We are telling them that we agree and we will vote for it as a co-sponsor to the shipowners and even rejoice that you are taking convergence steps. That's what we told you. What don't you understand? Are you taking convergence steps, yes or no? This policy of who serves, workers and popular strata, seafarers or serves capital? Obviously the second one, and here you are not saying a word, at least confront yourself. This is what the JRC has told you, that what is demonstrated by the debate and the vote on this bill is the huge shocks on the main issues, on the issues of development, capitalist development, on the development that we are living in and, of course, on the one hand, we are going to find us. After all, in the explanatory memorandum to this draft bill on the issues of the Aegean Sea, the lakes and the rivers - because not only the Aegean - you say that these are the main criteria for the development of the economy. That's what's being taken into consideration and legislated. So what don't you understand? In any case, because an example has been mentioned and I close, Mr President, they are opening paths to the sea between a private property and the sea that is not on the way. Of course you're doing that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u198	Shouldn't I?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u199	Of course, there must be no discussion. We're telling you another thing. You're opening a road to go to the sea and can't use it because it's going to fall on the umbrellas. That's what we're telling you. The area with which it will be exploited by the people and exploited for investment by entrepreneurs is limited. More and more percentages are given to them for use. That is what you consider to be economic growth. Of course, with a number of articles, for which I do not come back, we have reasoned, how you help entrepreneurs make use of the cavalry, the old cavalry and the others. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, I would like to speak. I have to answer that. There's no way things can stay that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u202	Okay. Greetings, because you have spoken thirty-five minutes, Minister. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u203	These are issues that have been raised in secondary terms. First we should see the comparison with the 2014 law, what did that 2014 law say? All restrictions were removed to the extent that could be granted in simple use. It has nothing to do with what we're doing now. It was five hundred yards of concession, we made it three hundred. Mr. Vardalis told us he'd fall on the umbrellas. You forget that with this law now only 40% can, Mr. Vardalis, have umbrellas, the other 60% is free. We are giving this law the opportunity to remain free so that everyone can take advantage of it. The previous law removes all references to the obligation of free and uninterrupted access to the cavalry, as well as the ban on the granting of exclusive use of hayaloo and beaches. We here are not giving it anywhere but the exclusive use of the saint and the beach. The only reference was in concessions that terms of use should be included to ensure public access. It facilitated the creation of permanent structures by individuals. In no case have we made it clear. The previous law has nothing to do with that law that we bring. That's clear. And a more tragic one that existed in that bill was that the blockage, the jam, the marine space for the service of business, which had been integrated into strategic investment and which had been approved by the ECHR or the ECHR, was allowed, which has nothing to do with what we now bring in any case. The conspiracy of the old hayalus we bring, we grow the beach, we let the hayalus be free. Isn't that all taken into account? And badly lies have been accepted, in terms of Article 28 and 34, by too many institutions. I said that in my speech, try to help us solve the problems. We can no longer deal with maintenance. That's what we have to do today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle is adjourned, on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development. We will stop legislative work at this point, so that we can get into parliamentary control and, more specifically, in the debate on the topical and urgent questions. After the completion of parliamentary scrutiny, we will be returning to legislative work by voting on the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Two topical questions will be discussed. There will not be a debate on nineteen topical questions for reasons that I shall speak immediately. The second question under number 474/8-4-2019 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament's Representation, Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Neither a brain incident unit in Greece", will be discussed due to a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, due to a workload. Fifth, under No 440/22-32019, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, to the Minister of Health, on the subject of "Addressing serious outstanding outstandings regarding the approval of special treatments", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Paul Paulakis, due to a workload. The sixth question under number 416/12-32019 of the new Republic MP Kilkis, Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, on the subject: "Tractical staff shortages at the Kilkis Hospital", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Paul Polakis, due to a workload. The seventh question under number 414/8-32019 of a second question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Procedures for drunkenness at the expense of the services provided by the ending of the Pathological Clinic of the Amalada Hospital" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Paul Paulakis, due to a workload.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u207	Mr Kutsukouko, if you will, I will give you the floor for a minute, when I finish reading the write-offs of the current questions. Any other MEP from the questioners wants to take the floor, I'll give it to him. The eighth under number 421/12-3-2019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In suspension the Surgery Clinic of the General Hospital of Kilkis due to lack of staff", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, due to a workload. The fourth, with number 316/29-1-2019, is a topical question for the second question of the Member of the Laconia Parliamentary Independence, Leonida Gregorakos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Delays in the crossing of patients from the EKA in intensive treatment facilities due to a lack of medical staff", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Paul Pavlos Polakis, due to a workload. The Fifteenth, under number 332/5-2-2019, topical question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on "the chronic problems of the Psychiatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PANGNI), will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, due to a workload. The sixteenth, under No. 329/4-2-2019, topical question of the Second Cycle of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Creation of a Bran Branch / Oncological Clinic at the General Hospital of Drama", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, due to a workload. The first question under number 481/8-4-2019 of a second question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "The establishment of a department of tourism based in Rhodes and the supremacy of "ASTER" with its accession to the University of the Aegean" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Tourism, Helena Kountoura, due to a planned trip to Heraklion Crete. The fourth under number 439/22-32019 topical question by MP Fthiotis of New Democracy, Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Confidences of guarantees of the Greek State on loans granted to private enterprises and natural disasters", will not be discussed by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Huliarakis, due to his absence abroad. The ninth under number 420/12-3-2019 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "Greek Vehicle Industry "ELVOABE", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. Eleventh under number 355/12-2-2019 a topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on "the assignment of real estate to a Real Estate Company (ETAD) - Fund for the Evaluation of Private Property of the Government (THEID)", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Eklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The twelfth under number 350/11-2-2019 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy, George Vlachos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Support Account of the National Bank of Greece (LEPETE)" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The thirteenth, with number 351/11-2-2019, a topical question from the Member of Parliament, Ioannis Koutsoukos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the supreme building by demanding the lenders of 50 of the public property in the Municipality of Pyrgos", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The first, with number 3920/30-11-2018, question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The need for the concession of the public area of two hundred and twenty acres in the area of Shipyards Scaramaga to the inhabitants of western Athens", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The second question with number 2932/31-1-2019 asked by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The release of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium of the 2nd High School of Athens", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The tenth under number 375/20-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Integration Mr Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Participation of Greece in the European Union's defence cooperation", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of National Defence Evangelos Apostolakis, due to the fact that the Minister of National Defence intends to inform the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, inter alia, on this matter. The third, with number 454/27-3-2019, topical question for a second question by MP II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "No arrest in Corinth, where Roma groups carried out violence", will be discussed. The seventeenth under number 262/9-1-2019 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Emergent need for an increase in military service", will not be discussed. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, I think you should take your responsibilities seriously as Bureau. I'm not talking to you personally. I am referring to Mr. Voutsi. How many questions have been deleted? Nineteen. How many questions are we discussing? Two. That is what happens every time we have parliamentary control. It is a question of a procedure governed by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, namely the procedure for scrutiny by the House of Ministers. I am absolutely certain that Mr Chakalotos, who, with his decision, transferred ten thousand and nineteen real estate last summer, would not have been hiding for a year if he did not have the tolerance of the Bureau. He wouldn't always find a coma. After all, Mrs Papanatsiou was here earlier. She could've ordered her to answer. The same is true with Mr. Polakis, who says he has a workload, who each night stays up in response to his political opponents on facebook and does not have five minutes here to come and tell us what is going to happen with the Amalada Hospital that is going to close. It is therefore a question of the completeness of parliamentary procedures. I ask Mr. Papadoulou who was kind enough to be here: If I resort to the prosecutor tomorrow, Mr. Papaggiopoulou, will he give me an order for the prosecution to go to the office of Mr. Tsakalotos to present to me the titles of ten thousand and nineteen properties that he has refused for a year to bring to the House or, in any case, will you advise me to do so, since the government does not come to answer? Mr President, I would like you to pass this on as a strong protest and there will be - I say to you - an initiative by our group on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u209	I would first like to reply that this issue has been addressed to the Conference of Presidents on several occasions. The relevant calls have been made. The government must force the ministers to come. There's no other way. The House cannot oblige them. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u210	The President can.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u211	The president can't either. I do not support Mr Voutsi, but he cannot, he does not have responsibility. The government, however, may force the ministers to come. What I have to say is that when Members are asking for the floor - a good time like you - I, but also the other Vice-Presidents and the President, we are giving it to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u213	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, I would expect the Minister to be here today to answer our question, especially because there are prolonged occupations in the ASEAN Rhodes and Agios Nikolaos. We should also be told by the Minister, who has been committed here in plenary since November to my timely question, that he will table a legislative initiative on the development of the curriculum and the PMUs. He has not done so. Please take the relevant initiative. Whether it is a bill or a re-subscribe that we will finally come to answer and give a definitive solution to whether it believes that the tourist studies in Greece will upgrade the quality of tourism and, above all, to clarify the landscape for ASE, because after the evolution of the superiorization of TEIs in AEI - I am bringing as an example the Western Attica - we have a gap in the hotel management, in the hotel studies that have a collapse in the country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u215	What I have to tell you, Mr Consola, because I know that, is that the Ministry of Education of the Aegean University asked the Minister of Education for the highest level of education and, of course, there is a bill submitted to the House by the Ministry of Education and I think that is where the debate on this issue can be held on the occasion of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, all the Members of the parties have signed up to discuss this issue in the Committees on Education and Trade and unfortunately two years ago, after three complaints and letters, it has not yet been discussed. I hope, therefore, that the two ministries will be consulted and that a joint proposal on the upgrading of schools will be tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Greek Development Bank and the attraction of strategic investments and other provisions". The two questions that will be discussed today - which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Papagelopoulos - have the same issue about. We can therefore, if the Members want it, and of course the Minister accepts it, they can be answered separately or, if they want, the questions and the time are the same. That is to say, time will not be violated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u219	Please, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask you to discuss this separately - I think, Minister, you would not object - for the simple reason that our argument might be different. This may be about the same case, but we will certainly have different things to say. I think it will make it easier for the Minister to give more complete answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u221	Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I agree with you. It's better. The argument will be at some points different and at some points overlapping. It is better for the people who are now watching us or who will later see the arguments of having a relationship and not leaving the debate from one to another, which one or the other Member has raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u223	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u224	Mr. President, may I say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u225	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u226	I'm sorry to interrupt you, Mr. President. I have no substantial objection to responding separately, but I am in a difficult position and I will make it public. I had the impression, hopefully, that I had been informed by previous Members of Parliament, that I usually respond to both Members. That is why my speech structure was oriented towards one, and I have made the distribution every six-minute period. However, because - if the others accept it, I am a good-looking person - I will agree with the honourable Members, but I will also ask you and the honourable Members to allow me, at least in three minutes, to take the time into account, which I have calculated for six plus six minutes. In other words, in my first answer, to the first Member, I will need four minutes, which I will borrow from another three minutes, because the structure was so oriented. I would also like some tolerance, which I will ask again when I take the floor, because this is a very serious matter as it stands. It is not only about the Ministry of Justice and the General Secretariat against Corruption, but I think it is about all Members and ministers and their colleagues. So I would like your tolerance for one, two minutes in order to explain some things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u227	I think that's all right, Minister. Now, then, the first question will be discussed under number 480/8-4-2019, first question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Theocharis, Mr. Theocharis, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on "Political, legal and moral issues relating to the relationship between the current General Secretariat of Corruption with Cyprus". Please, Mr Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Give me a little more time to share my voice, even though I feel lucky that the Minister is here and responds to me, with the colleagues who spoke earlier on the previous issue, which is the complete lack of response from the ministers and the culmination of the parliamentary control procedure. Allow me, Mr President, to disagree with your assessment that the President of the Parliament is unable to bring the ministers here to answer. If we accept this position you have already put forward, then we are leading to the deterioration of Parliament in relation to the executive, and their roles are distinct. And let us not forget that since the beginning of the declaration, executive power has existed as much as it has the confidence of the House. The ministers and the government as a whole therefore have to respond to parliamentary scrutiny and do not regard him as a party. We have seen this time from the government of SYRIZA clairvoyant events, such as Minister of State to say the other day that he is abroad and in Athens to vote in the roll-call vote or the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, to sit at the inauguration to drink coffee and smoke and have declared a coma and not to come here to the House to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u229	Mr Colleague, I will interrupt to tell you that the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kaidazis, informs Parliament of what questions will be answered and that the particular ministers mentioned, for the reasons mentioned, are not present. In other words, the Government responds to Parliament's request as to whether the ministers are rightly absent. It is therefore a question of the government to tell the ministers to come.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, this is not morally, politically and constitutionally correct. The House must, if necessary, even change its Rules of Procedure so that there can be sanctions for the ministers who abuse this right. In any case, I say it again, it does not stand constitutional and political. Now, Minister, I come to this very important case, the clear, in my view, assumption of corruption that has come to light, has taken enormous proportions and left the government and the Prime Minister himself to be exposed. Because what else is corruption if it is not the misuse of the public office for its own benefit, for the private benefit, which can be practically applied, or by multiple methods, such as bribery, such as nepotism, such as conflict of interest. And here, of course, we also have abuses of a public office, but also of a carabine, a clear conflict of interest. Let us explain the timing of Mrs Dumpadea's revolt, so that she can be clear to the Greek people. In June 2015, Minister, you appointed her as director of your office. In December 2015, did you degrade her from a manager to a special partner, so she could take cases - I wonder - of special purpose? In September 2016, the Secretary of the Committee is appointed to decide what assumptions of the ILO will be audited and crossed into the AACC and what assumptions will not be checked and will be allowed to be filed. In March 2018, it represents the offshore ‘HI-MED SOLUTIONS’ of Mr Artemis. I'm doing a little parentheses here. I would remind you that Mr. Artemio is not an accidental person for your government. We have the booze-go out in Maximou, we have his trips to Venezuela with Mr. Papa, Venezuela that was for Zarazuva, you tell us, Venezuela of the secret flights of the aircraft, I remind you, all this time. We have the payments to Mr Petsiti and the questions about where this money is going. These questions must finally be answered by your government, Minister. We have the mysterious and triangular relationships of Mr. Petsiti, Mr. Artemios and with an under-entry entrepreneur in our country. It's all very dark, all very mysterious! I'm returning to the development of Ms. Dumpy. In May 2018, he was upgraded by Mr Alexis Tsipras, the Prime Minister, to the Secretary-General for Combating Corruption. Why is that? Does he know too much about this particular subject, does he have experience? And finally, to complete the crime, you appoint it to the committee that makes the law on money laundering. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time, at the same time, he was a member of the Board of Directors and a shareholder of a company, the family that takes public works from the Greek State. And since she became Secretary General of Corruption, Mrs Dumpadea is responsible for controlling her father's, sister's and hers. We are talking, in other words, about a carabinat and at multiple levels of corruption, with obvious moral, legal and political issues that arise and questions that you need to answer. First, did you know that Mrs. Depadena has acted at the same time as the highest administrative posts you had given her from 2015 until today as a proxy lawyer from Mr. Artemios's company? Has Mrs Dumpadea received the exception from the suspension of the legal service, as laid down in Article 57(8) of the d.d.63/2005? When and by whom? Third, did he have special permission to be a member of a board of directors of a company, as required? Fourthly, you knew that Ms. Deuce was a member of the Board of Directors. A company contractor and at the same time controlled the Public Works Inspectors' Body? And finally, do you intend to request the immediate resignation of the General Secretariat for the Combat of Corruption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Theocharis, in addition to the questions he has put to me, has raised some other issues on which I shall respond to them at the outset in the absence of time. I have the knowledge. I would ask him, however, if he wants detailed answers, to come back to the new issues he has raised, and I am here. As Mr Koutsoukos acknowledged, I have the kindness - I do not regard it as good, but my duty - to come and reply at all times. But don't surprise me, because I actually have a problem of time on account of wonders. And now I'm going to the point of the case. In my first prototype, I'm going to use next year, because I'm going to talk in general. "He gave the mountain, and he gave it to me." I translate the ancient saying to be understood by all its wisdom, because it fully reflects the excessive noise in contrast to the minimal to non-existent importance of the topic that we are now discussing: 'It has been challenging a visible mountain and giving birth to small mice'. So let's see exactly what's going on with Ms. Anastasia Destroyer. When I finish, I will submit to the Minutes - so that we do not move now - the 11-42019 information note of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights of the Department of Human Resources and Administrative Support to the Minister of Justice, from which Mrs Desperate's path from taking up her duties as director of my political office to this day appears in detail. Its content is not disputed, because it is about the path described by Mr Theocharis and as it has been written by the publications, in particular by the "COURT" which highlighted it. And I have to admit that the "CREET" was very careful in its wording. Others overreacted later. I don't mean you. I mean the noise that was created. From this document, therefore, and from the statements made by Mrs Dumpadea in the press - when she was forced to answer - but also from all the publications on the subject we are discussing today, there is no doubt that Mrs Dumpadea did not have any activity as a lawyer as far as she was the director of my political office and as much as she is now a Secretary-General against the Corruption. She practiced her profession as a lawyer only during the period when she was a special partner in the Ministry of Justice. In this respect, it should be pointed out that Article 31(1) of Law No 4194/2013 - this is the Code of Laws - explicitly stipulates that the exercise of the function of the lawyer is suspended only on those appointed Ministers, Secretaries, Secretaries of the Ministerial Council, General or Special Secretaries of the Parliament and Ministries, and on their advisers, but - I repeat - special associates. So Ms. Dumpy acted perfectly legitimately. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Let's see, however, what Mrs. Destroyer's actions were, apart from legitimate ones, also moral? What exactly did Mrs Dupadea do as a lawyer and caused so much political and journalistic noise, as well as the current questions by Mr Theocharis and Mr Papatheodorou? Mrs Dumpadea, as a lawyer, took over the representation of the Cypriot limited liability company under Cypriot law rather than offshore, as inaccurately or outshore - I say 'inaccurately' to you - and they are misleadingly claiming some by the name 'HI - MED SOLOTIONS', which has been in existence since 1998 and traded in medical machines with a very large turnover. I repeat that this is not an offshore company, but a limited company, according to Cypriot law. Its legal representative is its owner, a Cypriot citizen, and not Mr Artemios, as you go on to say - so that I do not waste time I do not repeat the same - people say. This Cypriot company, therefore, does not belong to Mr Artemios or Mr Laurentiadis, as some people do. Just Mr. Artemios is a lawyer in Cyprus of the Cyprus limited liability company and - I repeat - not offshore company and Mr. Laurentiadis is associated with another company, with "ALAPIS S.A.", which was the parent of another limited company of "PHARMAGORA", which is based in Evrosmos Thessaloniki and which the Cypriot company had demanded. For this requirement, the Cypriot company - and I repeat again that it is not an offshore, but a limited company - had been enforced by the Provincial Court of Nicosia against PHARMAGORA, and not against the Greek State, as, in order to avoid repeating, inaccurately, artificially and politically speaking, they require us to say. The Cypriot company, by the Cypriot owner and not by Mr Artemios or Mr Laurentiadis, was given a simple and very specific mandate to execute the decision of the Cypriot court in Greece to collect the sum due from the "PHARMAGORA". However, since PHARMAGORA was incapable of paying its debt, because in the meantime, I think ‘ALAPIS’ had been bankrupt, that is, its parent company, the latter, the Cypriot company, seized the Greek State as a third-party confiscation, which was a debtor of PHARMAGORA’, i.e. owed it money. This is the classic case of confiscation on the hands of a third party, which is provided for in the law and is applied primarily in judicial practice. Therefore, Mrs Dumpadea did not turn against the Greek public - as I inaccurately exclaimed, politically artificially, etc. It is said, to avoid boredom, I do not repeat it - but it turned against the anonymous 'PHARMAGORA' company. Therefore, it did not turn against the public - as we said - and in favour of the interests of Laurentiadis, but rather against the interests of Laurentiadis, because, as ALAPIS said, it was interests of Laurentiadis and PHARMAGORA was a subsidiary. I'm saying this to understand the size of the inaccuracy at least. In this respect, it should be noted that according to the Code of Lawyers in Article 37 of Law No 4194/2013, the lawyer has an obligation to deal with any case, unless it is manifestly unfounded, it is not a receptive defence, it conflicts with the interests of other orders or is contrary to its principles. The same obligation for the lawyer is laid down in the Code of Conduct of Conduct for Ethics. Mr Papatheodorou knows them better than I do, because he is an experienced lawyer and a qualified lawyer. For many years now, at least since my student years, I have heard and read, as we have all heard and read, statements by distinguished lawyers and lawyers that the lawyer's office is sacred. The lawyer must not be identified with his client and targeted by the case he handles. This cannot apply to all lawyers and cannot apply to Mrs Dumping. So Mrs Dumpadea acted both legally and morally. I will return after I hear Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u233	Mr Theocharis has the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u234	It's very interesting. You are a very experienced prosecutor and it is evident from the way you speak. With your experience all this time - I am not a lawyer or I have thankfully followed you, it has not been the case, the procedures of the lawyers - it seems that you have learned too much of the lawyers whom you were struggling to uncover from these terrain you described. You use the same terrain that is legitimate and correct, but in fact and in fact the truth is exactly reversed by the one you describe. I will also submit some relevant documents in relation to the data on growth. I don't think we have any real difference. It is four FEKs for any appointments. I am sure they will also agree with the memorandum, which you have mentioned and which you will be tabling. However, while she held these very important positions, she was the lawyer of an offshore, Minister. Because offshore is not defined by whether it is in Cyprus or Greece or where it is. It's defined by knowing whose interests they're hiding from behind. And Cyprus, very well or badly, like the Netherlands, like a number of other countries in Luxembourg, does not provide information on the final beneficiary, the main shareholder we have ever talked about before in another government that you have served. So that's the essential thing, if we know who's behind it. Cyprus also uses par ticular persons, as it may be in this case. The first thing, then, is that. It's a fine argument that this company is not offshore. The second is that this company has the address of Mr. Artemio's office. Another practice of offshore lawyers who create them all with the same address for different clients in their office. And that's a second element in showing us it's offshore. So here, since Mrs Dumpadea represents this company, a number of issues are raised. First of all, it controls a company related to Mr Artemios directly. Mr. Artemios is controlled for tax evasion, because he's in Panama Papers or should be controlled. If it's not controlled, bring us here and tell us why it's not controlled. Mrs Dumpadea was a secretary in the committee who had the power to allow cases to be dropped. So the question you need to answer is what attitude it has taken on Mr Artemio's case in this committee. And what did this committee finally decide as a whole? Did he leave the case to be filed, or does this case continue to be checked in the ADP? So that needs to be answered. Mrs. Dumpadea, even indirectly, as she makes seizures against the Greek State, is a senior state official. Is the Prime Minister, as Minister, a Secretary-General, a senior state minister advising you, the Minister against Corruption, to make seizures against the State for any reason? Are legal cases lost? Did he have to take a confiscation against the public? Isn't there a conflict of interest over here when he's a senior officer? Thirdly, you say here, by the Code of Law, that it had no obligation to expressly exclude the exercise of the profession. There is also the other interpretation that says that he is a civil servant, a state official, he is in the Civil Service Code, and therefore he should be given an explicit exception. What prevented you from giving her the explicit exception? Besides, it's obvious you knew it. You lowered Ms. Horselessa from a director to a mere special adviser. So you did it so he could get this case. So you knew. What prevented you from giving her an exception in order to be covered and to discuss whether Mr. Theocharis' interpretation is correct or what Mr. Papagelopoulos's interpretation is correct? There was no reason. And the question is another. Did it happen at your command? Did it happen at the government's request to take this case? Because we see that he leaves your director, who is coma, he becomes a special advisor without a coma, he completes this case and then becomes a general secretary, who has a coma again. Was he rewarded for good services? I think we have the right to ask. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let us now come to the essence of the matter which you have raised most of your speech. There's a dark face behind this company. You named him. I'm gonna talk and keep talking about an undercover businessman.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u235	Please, time has passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u236	It is very important, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u237	We're in the fifth minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, you can understand that this is not a simple case. I'll finish too soon. The Minister will have the opportunity to respond another three times, and I think it is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u239	Deal, but you're finishing up too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u240	We have a company that has made a minimal turnover of about 1 million and suddenly makes a 5 million-dollar contract with a company of interest of the alleged businessman. And when everything falls apart, this company comes to ask for the money, get the Greek State's money, empty the company "PHARMAGORA" and receive substantial tax revenues. What is happening here on the street is a karabina process to transfer revenues from Greece to Cyprus, which has more favourable taxation. Is it possible for a man who's in your office, who's in charge of anti-corruption, that kind of case, and leave it? Did you know? These cannot be left. I shall end in a few words, Mr President. On the second point, the Minister said that he is not ready to answer the second disclosure, but he should. Once I and my colleague, Mr Papatheodorou, asked the question, the revelations were 'Snow Avalanche'. There was also the Ifimerida that revealed that he was a shareholder on the board of the family company. So it was on the board of the family business - I suppose you're reading news - that gets public works. I'm going to file an article about the works he's taken to the Ionian Islands, Corfu, if I'm not mistaken. At GEME the night is on the board, the morning is on the board, once from Ifemerida, the next time from the "PROTO THEME", from the "Open Corporation" and there it is, and suddenly the night is gone. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we have a series of questions again and I shall end with that, Mr President. He's a board member. executives? If it were executed, it would be forbidden. As a non-executive person, he should have special leave. Where is she, and please testify. The Civil Service Code obliges it and I have a document here to prove it. Secondly, instead of giving this permission even to be justified, as you do with the exception you say that you do not need to, choose the cover. You're extinguishing Ms. Dumpy from the board of directors. Thirdly, I accept good faith that it is no longer and is all right with the law and is not a member, but by Law 4412/2016 the Public Works Inspectors Body supervises the supervisors of this company, even if she left the board, she is a company of her father, her brothers, her family business. Do you intend to leave her to sit here supervising her parents' family? And finally, is he also a shareholder and remains? Please, if he's a shareholder, it's her company. It is not meant to stay and supervise this company. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u241	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u242	I'm done! The "first time on the left" came to bring a new spirit of governance. Instead, we see Mr. Petsiti, the offshore, the entrepreneur, the money to go from Greece to Cyprus...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u243	Unless you ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u244	Airplanes climbing up and not knowing what we're doing...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Theochari, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u246	You are accountable and as long as you cover Ms. Dupadea, coverage of corruption comes to you, comes to your government, comes to the Prime Minister himself, Alexis Tsipras who is accountable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u247	Please complete the question. Please, Minister, please, we are all in the question...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u248	He's not in the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u249	I'm not talking about you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u250	However, the move from Mr Theocharis, with all my well-meaning mood and sympathy, I will give her credit to the fact that he realised that he really was looking at the term and gave birth to a mouse. He didn't ask him, and he throws the ball at me on the platform, but because I've played a good ball and I'm in my youth, I bring it back very quickly, and I have a strong arowt. Open up all the issues that I'm ready to answer. I know them. So I am saying the following. Ms. Dupadea resigned from the family business in good time. You can diagnose that. Ask me to come with overwhelming evidence to answer you. Now, to win the impressions - they also come in autumn, and you will be candidate - to make noise, to hurt the government and Papaggiopoulou, who is a bag of boxing for what is happening in Greece? You think this will bring you votes. It won't bring you, especially on your side, and I'm not saying anything else. We are now moving on to the case with Mr Artemios, who is not the owner of the Cypriot company. There's a owner, I can name him, but we're gonna make the man Bukino, an unrelated man. And the Cypriot company, I repeat - because Mr. Theocharis heard it and understood it, because he's an intelligent man, he's just spooling because he sounds good offshore - it's not offshore. It's a limited company. How do we do it? Even the "original theme", Mr. Theochari, does not speak of offshore. I'm a regular reader of all the newspapers and the "CORDER" is in my priorities, because it sometimes reveals. But he's not talking about offshore. So she started a year after she resigned from the principal's post. I do not want to treat heavy expressions - I have told you, I like you - and I would like to say that it is slanderous to say that it may, on my command, have been given up by Mrs. Depaedia to go to serve Mr. Artemios, offshore, Mr. Laurentiadis, Mr. Madouros, Mr. Chaves, and who else are going to put on the forefront? So that's not gonna work. A year ago, I had divinities again. There is no question of this being discussed in the committee which is Mrs Dumped down. Ms Dumpadea for the ILO - from what she informed me now, because I cannot follow all the issues - watched and facilitated the work of transferring the documents, was not a committee member and had no decisive reason. In addition, he's head of the district attorney's office. Hey, what's Mrs. Luck doing now? Well, that goes too. I could say a great deal about all the incidents he has raised, but I repeat: I think it is better to inform the Greek people and Parliament of Mr Theocharis coming back with specific questions, on matters that he has just raised, which I can answer, but I am just wasting time. And time is limited and the subject is a major one. I have therefore demonstrated in my amendment that the actions of Mrs Dumpadea were fully in line with the law, morality and legal ethics. At this point I would like to point out to Mr Theocharis, who - rightly so perhaps, I think he is not a legal person, said so himself - was misled and asked, among other things, whether Mrs Dumpadea had been excluded from the suspension of the legal system since when and from which minister in charge. Because I read him the provision of the Code of Lawyers withdrew a little while ago and said there was another interpretation. In his question, the provision of Article 57(8) of Presidential Decree 63 of 2005 is also invoked. However, in the case of Ms Dumpadea, like all special associates, the provision of Article 31(1) of the Code of Law 4194 of 2013, which refers to special lawyers, is now more specific and later. As is well known, the special law prevails over the general, and later the law prevails over the previous one. These legal posts were formulated properly, many centuries ago, by prominent legislators in ancient Rome, before the time of Katilina and Messalina, i.e. centuries before Rasputin, as follows: ‘Lex specialis deogat lex generali’ and ‘Lex postior derogat lex priori’. I translate: ‘The special law repeals the general law and subsequent law abolishes the earlier law’. That's all for now, and I'll come back. I take time, 'cause things come up. I will, of course, have the pleasure of listening to Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, too. Now we will discuss the second question by number 475/8-4-2019 on the second question by MP Achaias of Democratic Incorporation Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Different relations between the General Secretariat on the fight against corruption, Mr. Dupadea". Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, because you have already spoken of mice, mountains, mountains, lagadia, to see the elephant in here. And of course, because you have also had a nice first-year course on special and general law, I will tell you in advance that I will agree much more with you than with my colleague Mr Theocharis. Why? Why, Minister, will I agree? Because you have actually told us so much time what Mrs Horse has said in her interview in the 'Preservers' newspaper', which said we had 'HI - MED SOLUTIONS LTD. It was a court order against a Greek company, a subsidiary of Mr Laurentiades, to say it all - and it was commissioned by the company itself, by Greece, to carry out the decision of the Cypriot court, as you said. At the trial, she recognized to the Greek State the debt of the company of interests Laurentiadis and the legality of the claims of the Cypriot company, which I represented, but which she has objected to and has so far not paid the amount, as you said. Minister, we are not here to see if the Code of Law enables a special counsellor, legal, lawyer of a ministry to perform a task, we have not come here to check if you want Mrs Dumpadea's powers. We came here to check the political complication between the exercise of professional activity and, at the same time, the political positions, which he held both as director and advisor, as well as as as Secretary-General afterwards. At the same time, however, Minister, we have come to check on this. Let me correct you to something before. Mr. Artemios was managed, therefore also at his headquarters, in his legal office, which was Artemios-Pierres, was mentioned by this company. That is why, in this address, Artemio-Pierre, a well-known law firm in Nicosia, which represented, as a proxy lawyer, Ms. Xappadea in Greece. When all this, in relation to Mr. Laurentiadis? When, at the same time, Mr Petsitis was a tax representative of Mr Artemios in Greece, and in particular Mr Artemios - I will tell you the date soon, because I will submit it - as a tax representative of the law firm, who had along with Mr Pierres and managed certain Cypriot companies by Mr Laurentiadis in Nicosia. Why did we learn from Mr. Petsiti, the other private person, Mr. Petsiti? We learned Mr. Petsiti a few months ago, because Mr. Petsitis was a friend of Mr. Pappas and he acted as a representative of Maximos's services in the famous negotiations between DEPA and Laurentiadis. What does this do to us, logically, a sequence? Now let's go to legal and moral. What does this do to us? It makes us a relationship - you saw I call it sweet! - linking a lawyer's professional activity to the political position of the same person. It also links what it is investigating - and it should be investigated today - the Secretary-General against Corruption, that is, Mr Petsiti and Mr Laurentiadis and Mr Pappas. Why, apart from the proxy Mr. Artemios, we learn that since 2016 he has visited the Maximos Concert Hall and has travelled with Mr. Papa in Venezuela to promote Greek agricultural products. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] But come where there are other issues, which now seem to be of more interest to us. Indeed - and I conclude with this - there are elements which you should explain to us. Why did I tell you that I agree with you before? I agree that Ms. Dupadea from 09-02-2016 is not in her father's company because there is a document asking for her replacement. And I'll put it in the Minutes. But come on, tell us why, when we're looking for GEMI, even on 08-0-2019, it seems to be a member of the board of directors - I'm going to tell you out of care - and when we're looking for another one, 'Open Corporations', that's where we see that he's a member of the board again, I'm wrong to say to you? How is it possible, when this goes up with my question - and obviously Mr Theocharis's question - that the name disappears within two - three hours? Who intervened to disappear from both GEMH and the other site? So this is a little detail that, if you want, you can explain to us. However, the political issue is that we are in the same order, namely Mrs Dumpadea, Mr Artemios, Mr Papapas, Mr Petsitis. And all this is happening in Maxime's court. That is the political problem, and that is what you have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u253	Minister, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u254	First of all, Mr Papatheodorou has not avoided the temptation to put more issues on me. I'll repeat this for the Gemini. I'm not sure I'm supervising it. In any case, I have an image and I will answer you, but please, as I have asked Mr. Theocharis, come back with a specific question about GEMI and all that you have raised...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u255	The political answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u256	I'll answer that, too. I can answer now, but, you know, I'm wasting time and I'm uncomfortable feeling abused...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u257	Don't worry, we're last.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u258	We've got one all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u259	Here you go, Mr. President, kindly and discreetly, to bring me back to class. First of all, as far as GEMI is concerned, I will say that GEMI's announcement is the official document from which the withdrawal from the Board of Directors arises and not the other entries on the site. I don't know if I'm responsible, but anyway, I now answer that. Mrs. Dupadea resigned long before she took over the Artemio case. As I said in the first but also in the second quarter, which was overrun by Mrs Dumpadea, in my view - and I have proved it - she has not committed any criminal or moral misconduct. Mr Papatheodorou asks the Minister of Justice, to whom he asks, because after the revelations he has not taken care of the information to be referred back to the competent judicial authorities for investigation. I wonder what a criminal offence Mr Papatheodorou has identified as likely to have been Mrs Dumpadea and asked the Minister of Justice why she did not take this action? I am sure that Mr Papatheodorou, as a law-approved person, had identified a specific criminal offence and could justify it on what it is, would have been mentioned in the criminal act. I don't see a criminal offense. Ethically we are talking about it - and we are discussing it - but are we going to suggest that a criminal offence has been committed? I can see that it's only because of making impressions. In addition, Mr Papatheodorou has asked the Minister since he knew the professional activity of Ms. Depadena as the proxy lawyer of Mr. Artemios. This is where you miss, Mr. Papatheodorou. As I mentioned in detail above, there was no proxy lawyer from Artemio, but the mentioned Cypriot company, the 'HI-MED SOLUTIONS', whose lawyer was Artemio. Mr. Artemios was merely a lawyer of this company and his relationship with Mrs. Dupadea was his occasional cooperation with her, for a normal and simple procedure, before the Greek courts. Any lawyer to ask, that's what he'll tell you. I am sure, Mr. Papatheodorou, that this procedure is common and simple and you and Mrs. Depadena, with the deposit of the confiscation, did not turn against the Greek government, I clarify, against a company...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u260	...Laurentiadis, you said so yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u261	A subsidiary of Mr Laurentiadis' interests. He didn't turn against the public. Not that it would matter, because it is a regular cooperation, but not to bathe and say that the current Secretary against Corruption was against the public. But he didn't turn against the public. The government has recognised its debt. Of course, Mr Papatheodorou, very cleverly, mentioned some names and facilitated me, because I intended to say it at the end in my final speech. He mentioned Mr. Petsiti, Mr. Artemio, Mr. Pappa, Venezuela. I believe that, apart from legal and illegal, moral and immoral exists both right and wrong. Mrs Dumpadea, in my view, has acted legitimately. But he was wronged. And he was wronged because he was in the wrong position. He pointed out the "CORDER THEME", without exaggeration, I repeat, and in good faith, and we ran into Mr. Artemios. This Mr. Artemio has now been possessed. He's in Maximus! Crime! You know, I often go to Maximos, and besides everything else, for which I'm being taken to the Special Court, I'm also going to be taken for it, because I'm going to Maximos. I'm not saying this for you, Mr. Papatheodorou. I'm talking about some other furious people. He's entering Maximus. He's traveled to Venezuela with Mr. Poppa. I'd say we'd try and find out who else they traveled. It'd be a long flight and a lot of people. They all have to answer. But are they going to Venezuela in 2013, two years before SYRIZA takes over? Don't they see the conspiracy, where she's getting ready and coming? He'll come in 2018 and two planes will pass through here, bring gold! You haven't said it, but I'm saying the game has been played lately. Add a little, Mr. Laurentiadis, add a little ELPLE, add a little DEPA and bind, not the sweet, but this construction of misinformation and confiscation. I repeat it's none of your business. I'm saying what's happening lately. We found Ms. Depadena signing a simple confiscation "in third hand" along with the demon Mr. Artemios, who is a partner of Mr. Pierres, who knows Mr. Petsitis, who was a classmate of Mr. Nikos Pappas. There's the conspiracy, the crime, the big scandal. I'll continue after Mr. Papatheodorou's denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u263	Minister, you are certainly taking some distances from the case and now, if you like, and a little touching, because you think that the honourable Mrs. Deuce was in the wrong place at the wrong time. Unless it didn't finally happen, if it was in the right place, at the right time. Of course, as you had to do, you did. However, because I am not going to talk about coincidences, but about specific data, I would remind you that on 6 July 2015 the Cypriot companies of interests Laurentiadis, involved in the Proton Bank scandal, went through the management of the Artemio-Pierre company. Scandal! At that time the talented and active Mr Petsitis, the private person, who entered Maximou, was also celebrating the referendum, and I think there were other joys than I understand on other journeys - was a tax representative of Mr Artemios. It doesn't matter again. But what matters is that Mr. Artemios chose a proxy lawyer in Greece, Mrs. Depadena, who had another capacity: he was in the same office as Mr. Kalogerou and Mr. Damaskopoulou. Is it bad? Obviously not. Is it bad to work with other lawyers? We're all doing it. But what shapes the political relationship is that you are now under an obligation to explore the Proton Bank scandal and what work Mr Laurentiadis has done when he was trying to exchange certain properties with the PCP. Mr. Christos says other things. He says Mr. Petsidis was involved in the negotiation. This has been mentioned by the Maximos Mansion and by Mr Papapas, because he is considered to be the representative of some of the Maximos' services and in all of them is the Secretary-General for the Fight against Corruption. You may not have answered this question. But there are other questions. I am not going to mention that there is anything peculiar about you being in the same office as the Minister of Justice when you are at the same time an adviser or a Secretary-General to Mr Papagelopoulos, Deputy Minister of Justice. There's nothing wrong with that. They're just picking up the same faces for the same job. And here the job is to investigate corruption. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As I said before, Minister - I will not abuse your time much - a person is not being investigated, who has just done his job and was at the wrong time. It is investigated what the specific relationships, professional and policies were, interlinked during the period 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018. That's what we're investigating. This is parliamentary control. So I told you before that there was a replacement document on the board of directors. But what I want to know is this: Since it has been done since May 2015, why is this presented and replaced in February 2016? Questions are also relevant to the practice of replacing. Since Mrs Horsepadea, as I know, resigned from the board of XENOTEC S.A. in May 2015, why did she appear in Gemini? So, were there some people who wanted her political evil when she started an important political route on your side? We are now going to two questions, Minister, which I think we both understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u264	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u265	I shall conclude, Mr President. According to the FEK, which I, too, have here, participated in the first board of directors, thus held shares in the "XENOTEC S.A.". Does he have shares today? If so, tell us. If not, when did he transfer them? Because if he had them, he should have transferred them. Since it holds this very sensitive position, Minister, I imagine that you too are very sensitive, so that there is nothing to expose to you - the question is this: Have you investigated whether, with the previous business activity - I mean absolutely nothing else - Mrs Dumpadea, if she had shares, there were statements abroad and if so, in which country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u266	Please, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. I shall try to be very brief, Mr President. But Mr. Papatheodorou asked me a lot of questions. I will have to repeat what I said to Mr Theocharis. Probably because the mouse, as I'll say at the end, is not only small, it's nonexistent, we throw the ball back on the platform. I'll be forced again to run to the araut and reset the ball. I have an age now to run out of racing space, take the ball and bring it back. Forgive me!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u268	It was the same question, on the same route.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u269	So let us confine ourselves to this issue. On the subject of GEM, as for Mr Laurentiadis, please come back with one question. The point is, Mrs. Dumpadea resigned in good time. You recognize it. If, now, GEO did wrong, wrong, or I don't know what she did, I told you, I'm not sure if I'm responsible for GEMI. What's the matter? It is whether Mrs Horseman - as she had to - resigned. You said the same thing about Mr. Laurentiadis and a lot of other things. I'm here. Come back with a question, prepare, have time to answer. You said about Kitsakus and DPRK. You spoke of Manolis Petsiti, Nikos Pappa, Venezuela, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u270	It's all in the same order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u271	Yeah, all that's been heard and you repeat it. Incidentally, yesterday 'REAL' - I confess I did not study it, I read it vertically, and today I think that DIMMOCRATIA resurrects it - was talking about a recent judicial decision, which shows things different from what it was up to now for the DEPA. I don't know. I'll study it. When you come back for Laurentiadis and Poppa, I will be aware and answer for that, too. So I wonder what is going on after this recent - the recent - legal development, in this regard, as with all these unproven cases, that he has taken the companies of Laurentiadis. I think that's what happened in 2010, in 2011, five, six years ago. All of this now connects them to Ms. Dumpy. So, have we heard a lot about Mr. Petsiti, too? Here, I would like to ask, not only you, but all those who come out and beat the Petsiti case and especially the journalists: really, what offence can we give Mr Petsiti? I'm asking to know. I looked. I was thirty-five years of prosecuting. I think I've been through most of this in the criminal prosecution. I've had enough experience. I'm looking to find the crime. I can't find it. You tell me I'm old, and I've been gone for years. That's why I'm asking for help. Tell me the crime Mr. Petsites committed. Because I fear that God - I believe in God - the fate or I don't know who else has very great humor, he gave the name "Petsitis" to a ancestor of today's Petsiti, because he knew that at some point, a Manolis Petsitis would be starring at a "pets" scandal. I'm afraid it'll prove "Petsino" and this scandal. Justice's investigating it. I, for the time being, ask what offence justice must look for and help poor woman. I haven't got an answer. What's Mr. Petsite's crime? He was entering Maximus. Excuse me, I found one right now: Last betrayal. He predicted the percentage that SYRIZA defeated in the elections! How did he know? He participated in the fraud. Remember, they put out the channels a little note and said, "Here's a prediction." SYRIZA, Papagelopoulos - I wasn't, I'm sorry - anticipates so much. Mr Papatheodorou - nor were you in Maximos' company, nor was I - so provides. And underneath he said "Petsiti" - then I first met Petsiti, as a name - and the percentage had been reached. That, he says, is an offence for me. I would like to close general and institutional matters on the subject of special associates. The targeting of lawyers for their affairs is unjust and dangerous. All MPs and ministers have special partners, who are also conducting legal proceedings. Imagine what happens if we start looking. What cases has Mr Papatheodorou's partner had in the past? I don't have any partners or staff. I'm just passing through. All Members, however, have some staff, some partners. Most of them are lawyers. Imagine what happens if we start looking for them. In addition, many MPs, both the Co-Population and the Opposition are distinguished lawyers and lawfully lawfully legal. In fact, several of them have been Ministers in the past and the counterpopulations may be ministred in the distant future. I think of Mr Karagunis, who has been a State Secretary for Justice - I think he is a lawyer - and Mr Vorides. I know they're law-enforcing. Do we have to start looking for their cases? I would like to avoid it, but I am subjected to the temptation - I am still vulnerable to temptation - to say that, apart from the political feasibility of the questions, there may be something else. That's where I'll say. I won't say anything else. I could say too much more, but it is too late and there is another debate. So I will close my speech, repeating what I said at the beginning. But you will allow me a small conversion. I said: "It was a mountain and it was a memorable mountain." Now I will falsify it: “The mountain was poured out, and nothing came down,” that is, he gave birth to nothing. In other words, he hurt a visible mountain and gave birth to nothing, not even a little mouse. I guess there's no pregnancy at all. Everything's fake. Our people have a typical word for fake pregnancy. Look for her. I won't mention it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u272	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We are returning to the agenda for the legislative work and the bill of the Ministry of Finance. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "I. Proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the Agreement in the form of an exchange of letters concerning the provisional application of the Protocol establishing the fishing opportunities and financial Harmonization of the VAT Code Directive (EU) 2016/1065, III. Incorporation of points 1, 2, 4 and 5 of Article 2 and Articles 4, 4, 6, 7 and 8 of Directive 1164/2016, IV. Adopted by the Commission on 17 December. Regulations (EC) No 2971/2001 and (EC) No 2971/2001.' We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty-six articles, five amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote on the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau and the services of the House, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u273	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u274	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u275	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "I. Proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the Agreement in the form of an exchange of letters concerning the provisional application of the Protocol establishing the fishing opportunities and financial Harmonization of the VAT Code Directive (EU) 2016/1065, III. Incorporation of points 1, 2, 4 and 5 of Article 2 and Articles 4, 4, 6, 7 and 8 of Directive 1164/2016, IV. Adopted by the Commission on 17 December. 2971/2001 and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and the whole, which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u277	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-15-S1-commons.u278	With the consent of the House, 20.05' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 16 April 2019 at 9.30', on the subject of this House's work: (a) a reference to the memory of the former President of the Chamber of Demetrios Sioufa and (b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Greek Development Bank and the attraction of strategic investment and other provisions", according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
