ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS First of all, I would like to inform the House that the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Olga Gerovali, will answer the first three topical questions. So we begin with the debate on the first under No 462/1-4-2019 topical question by MP for the first cycle of Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on "The situation in Piraeus is disappointing". Please, Mr. Katsafandos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, the DIA Group was set up in 2010. We are all aware of the great and important work that it is doing, both in terms of the security of the citizen and in terms of prevention, because we are all witnessing that every day, wherever you look, you will see the occupants of the DIA Group who do their job and protect the Greek society and the Greek citizen. I do not need to tell you that since this service was established, there are thousands of arrests they have made. Her offer is too big. Too many criminals and villains have been arrested through them in checks. It is indeed the best thing that could have been done, without underestimating the other services of the Greek Police which under these difficult circumstances and with this increase in crime and with the poor means they have, are trying to do their duty to the extent that they can. The circumstances, however, which prevail, Minister, in the Piraeus DIA Group, are, in fact, too bad, not to say tragic. They are conditions that have to do with the lack of space to keep and house the machines and the service, they are huge deficiencies that exist in human resources, they are defects that exist in everything that has to do with the equipment of the reciprocators, they are flaws in what has to do with vehicles and machines. Indeed, because it is a great deal of work done by the PPC group not only in general but specifically in Piraeus, with very great and important successes in preventing crimes and preventing infringements, but also arrests of criminals and marked criminals under these very difficult conditions, and because the latest evidence shows an increase in crime in the wider region of Piraeus, I would really like to see how we could strengthen this service, a service that has been set up for specific purposes, and from what I have learned in recent years and inclinations are taking place in the courts, and that is to say, they also assume tasks that go beyond their responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended from the upper west theory of forty-three students and a professor from the Athens School of Law. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Katasfados, I will share with you the anxiety about the conditions under which the DIA Group works and acts. I will fully agree with you on the important role of this group, and I would like to assure you that my personal pursuit and also the Greek police are to do everything possible so that these workers can work in appropriate conditions and, of course, with the necessary operational infrastructure. As you know, at the port, the Attica Direct Action Directorate, in order to meet these needs since the DIA Group was set up, has organised the facilities in six configured areas, which took place in 2011. The offices of the team are housed at 46 Salamis Street in Piraeus, in a building - Annex of the Pireas Police Directorate. These homes, which you are talking about, are there to serve the immediate practical needs of the staff, and on the basis of what has been mentioned so far and from them, are a point, an area that serves the staff and easy moves from this point. A request that arrived at the Attica General Police Department to remove from there, really, has not been captured. What you're right about, too, was that there had been some problems on the E1 pier bridge. In 2014 they were reported. However, since then, these deteriorations had been detected and the necessary interventions had been made and some parts had been fully repaired which had been removed from the outer surface. So the assurance from all the technicians is that there is no question of this. As far as the numbers are concerned, the DIA group has a hundred forty - three motorcycles. Of these in energy is a hundred five - I'm talking about this moment in time - and thirty-eight is for repair. Also from December 2018 until March 2019 were replaced by the tyres on eighty motorcycles. From September 2018 until today, also, helmets and boots have been given and new textile costumes and other and bulletproof and uniforms to this staff. As far as equipment is concerned, let me remind you that the figures we refer to every time, of course, are not fixed daily in the sense that they need reconstructions at all times. Also with regard to helmets and boots, the competition that had been awarded became barren and will be immediately reopened. These are the elements you put to your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Katsafandos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, in the Piraeus DIA group there are two hundred and eighty-three policemen. I will not dwell on the fact that nothing has been done to replace all these children, who daily give this battle under these adverse conditions for over nine, ten years. And because I like to talk with numbers, I'm going to tell you on the occasion of my question. Because those who do - you know - stay in some walls, in some rooms and get - if you like - and this virus of institutionalism. Christmas, then, I visited the DIA group, feeling the need to convey and exchange vows with all these people who serve the fellow citizen and the fellow man, and I was ashamed. Really, Minister, I was ashamed. And I would suggest that you visit this site as well. This isn't just about the logistics infrastructure. The fact is, of course, that one hundred and forty three machines it has - because I like to speak with numbers, as you spoke - up to Genaris was on and on 50 operational readiness. Today after the question, there are a hundred nine machines, not a hundred four, a hundred five you said, Minister. It's a hundred nine machines. And I say that because I want to be precise in numbers. That's what I want to tell you. They had to have three patrol cars, because the volume of all those who capture and make the incubators is increased. They didn't. They have a patrol car at intervals. I really wonder: While they should have three patrol cars, they have one right now. Two days ago, a patrol car went. Let's just say it was a coincidence. And this one, however, patrol car that went, Minister, is a 2004 Citroen Xsara with over four hundred thousand kilometers. And I wonder: His service costs over 3000 euros. Get online and look for a used car, costing 1500 euros. And the Greek state pays 3000 euros for the service. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me go back to talk a little bit further, because this is a very important matter, Mr President. The Greek State, therefore, pays over 3000 euros and cars we don't have. We don't have police cars. The DIA Group's work is very important. You have, however, abolished the DIA centre and transferred them to the other centers of Direct Action. I'm telling you, I was embarrassed. It's a time-consuming problem. You don't have the responsibility, just you. They also have responsibility for previous governments. I want to be clear about this. I'm going to file some evidence in the Minutes to see where the DIA team is housed, Minister. It's underneath a bridge with a wire, where stones are thrown over them. I don't have to tell the dangers they run. They're holes, and the water comes in. So it's a tragic situation. Allow me, I'll testify all these pictures here. It's tragic. Look at this! It's inside the port. Refugees live better. They are two hundred eighty - three persons who serve us. It's tragic, Minister! We need to find a place to settle. In 2019, there shall be no civil servants of two speeds. It is a disgrace to both security and public security. It's a disgrace! It's under a bridge a fenced space where anyone passes. They're incapacitated by the machines there and the salt eats them. They destroy all the metals that machines have, eats the salt, and policemen don't feel safe. Every day you see what is happening with "Rubicon". They don't know that, Minister. If they knew, we'd have tragic events in this area. I have to testify to the pictures. I have to ring a bell to your sensitivity. I'm telling you, it's a time-consuming problem. You've received this and you have to fix it, or we'll fix it. It cannot continue to be the case. One last thing, Mr President. We talked about logistics. At the moment, Minister, I tell you that they are also serving, you now have them joining teams. We have recently had the incidents between Progressive and Ionic. It's not the DIA Group's job to accompany teams and coaches. Right now you've got them running. That's not their job either. Two more people have no helmets.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u7	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President. There are no helmets or helmets, Mr President. There's no helmet service. Two people do office, because there are no helmets. I think the least we can do as a state to these two hundred three and many others, the thousands of other people who serve their homeland, legality and social cohesion, is to ensure them absolutely necessary for their own security and to do their duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Please, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u10	Mr Katsafados, the problems with regard to the infrastructure of the Greek Police, as you said, come from old and come from the ages of 'bone cows'. This option for installing in this area as we said before and you know it, was made in 2011. And, obviously, because it is not possible to keep the chronic problems, you can be sure that every effort is being made both by the Ministry and Headquarters and the necessary initiatives have been launched to find this area. It is not very easy because it should also be operationally easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u11	The old detentions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u12	In any case, it has begun, although, as I have said, there has not been any start as an official request, but also in the knowledge of the Greek police, and action is being taken to find this place. As far as the issue of the human resources of the Greek Police is concerned, you know very well that the years of the Memorandum Restrictions in the Greek Police have brought a great deal of blow. I will not only speak of the abolition of the six thousand seven hundred organic posts in the office of Mr Mitsotakis in the Administrative Reform, but also of the numbers, as you know, the rules of one to five and later one to four and the other. These rules did not allow the Greek police to have a number of incoming people in this House on the basis of needs. As we all know, the needs are growing constantly, because crime is changing forms, it becomes more complex and the Greek Police should be in operational readiness. In this sense, yes, there are many police officers today who, in fact, work more than anyone's responsibilities, as it could have been, if the numbers of human resources were necessary. So you realise that at times with difficult budgetary and such rules, it was not possible. However, I would like to point out here once again that when we are having these discussions about a social state and about the state being shielded against the dangers, it also means human resources. So when we say at some point that we do not want to hire workers with a permanent employment relationship in the Greek State, we should also say to our fellow citizens that we mean them. Assuming that the announcement of the New Democracy is implemented one by five, to return to the original rule, you can see what it will mean to the Greek Police. So this resentment of your agony and my agony with announced initiatives, that is to say, the reintroduction of rule one by five, should at least concern you as a Member of the Officerial Response. For the infrastructure part as well and, as you said, for helmets, uniforms and all that, and to us the agony is great. I told you this competition was fruitless. On the other hand, you mentioned it, too, in your question, there are donations and, of course, next year there are large numbers, both in uniforms and in helmets, which will soon begin to unfold and be delivered to the workers for whom I, too, really, have great anxiety because they are working in difficult real conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. The third number 451/26-3-2019 will be discussed in the third cycle of MP for the first cycle of the Thessaloniki Association of Centroon Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Confidence of Staff topics of the Fire Corps". Please, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, we know how difficult the fireman's profession is. We know that many times these people go beyond their limits, trying to save lives, save the forest and the natural wealth of this country, save property. The memories of the great disaster in Matti and the collapse, in essence, of the civil protection mechanism are still fresh. On the other hand, climate change is a reality. The climate has changed a little, both in terms of the government's environmental policy and in terms of both the social and economic spectrum of the state. Consequently, the need to find a solution so that we can achieve the homogenisation of the Fire Corps is imperative. At the moment, anyway, we have the permanent firefighters, we have the seasonals, we have the volunteer firefighters. Unfortunately, with this regime, we cannot achieve homogenisation or achieve results which would be useful and would strengthen efforts by these people. Evident example of this unequal employment treatment is the category of contracted fire extinguishers in 2008-2009, who, while having the experience, are qualified, unfortunately, were unable to be placed on the lists of successful ones. So, what emerges as an anguish among these people themselves, in view of the start of the period before us, you realise that it would be right to learn your intentions, the intentions that you have as regards the integration of these seasonal fire extinguishers 2008-2009 into the list of successful ones, and thus to resolve the anxiety these people have. They're not a lot of people. You know the number of these fire extinguishers. You could achieve an arrangement for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u15	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u16	Mr Saridis, you are right that climate change and the phenomena that Greece and Europe are now facing because of these changes are strong and of course our country must be effectively shielded against the changes and new conditions that occur after climate change. As far as workers are concerned, the human resources of the Firehouse are concerned, it really helps us to say that this state has the potential to face up to natural disasters. So, not after the fire in Matty, but before that, the anxiety was intense in terms of the working environment of fire extinguishers, as well as the number of fire extinguishers themselves. That is why you will recall that, although we were still in the memorandums, which were in force in the public service, and which were severely bound, with a great effort that was then made by both Minister Toska and myself to the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction and with the financial staff, there was the permanentisation of five-year obligation firefighters, exceptionally in the rule, because we also needed them to join permanent staff and get into the full planning of dealing with natural disasters, but also because it was a fair request for them, because they were working in hard conditions, doing important work and working in precarious working conditions. Thus, in 2017, the two thousand hundred and eighty-six five-year obligation fire extinguishers were permanentised. Then there were a thousand seven hundred twenty-three-three-five-years left, and we proceeded to the hourly equation with permanent staff. That means that all five-year-olds can now work weekends, holidays, 24 hours a day, such as permanent staff and, therefore, experienced people can make the most of these conditions, and of course, with what this means for their wage pay, which was also fair to deal with. In the next few days, very soon, we are in the process of bureaucratic processes, because the recruitment of the eighty-seven-seven-seven-six contractors to the tender you mentioned, 2008-2009, who have been working as contractors for all these years and will be included in the five-year obligation firefighters. It's experienced staff we need, because they too will be working on 24/7, weekends, etc. So the five - year - olds will now become about two thousand six hundred. On Wednesday, the day after tomorrow, they are ranked in the Fire Corps as practicing firefighters of general duties fifty-six successful in the 2011 tender table. Also, in a few days' time, perhaps even in the week or next - I appreciate it this week - there will be a competition for the recruitment of a thousand seasonal fire-fighting workers ahead of the forthcoming anti-missile period which, as you know, we need to strengthen for the summer with human potential. Also eighty-nine graduated firefighters will be added, the first to graduate with the institution of the pan-Hellenic exams, which this year is part of the permanent human potential of the firefighting. In this sense, we believe that we have largely responded to the strengthening of the number, but also to the restoration of this great imbalance with the multiple working relationships, which restore fair demands and fire extinguishers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister. Mr Saridis, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. Mr President, I have to say at first glance at the Minister's reply to most people who are concerned with this disparate nature, but also with the different special status. The only solution we have as a state is for everyone to follow the same course, for all to follow the same laws. Madam Minister, if I may, there were - I think - about eighty and ninety people who then did not have the standard qualifications to enter these tables. With regard to these eighty-90 people, because we are in a pre-election period, it is good to tell the truth in the world whether we can help them or not. I think it would be more honest than our side and it would sound better to them not to perpetuate the situation, not to play political games at the expense of some people and even at an election time. So it would be good for these people too to try to give a solution. We've trained them, we've broken working hours, we've invested on them, we're ready, they're waiting for them, and these people in turn to give their lives a chance and not to be hostages of any government that comes and holds them hostage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u19	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u20	Mr Saridis, this issue has been dealt with in terms of people who, at the time, did not qualify to be recruited as five-year-olds. We have arranged for those who have acquired the qualifications required at this time, as some people have obtained their diplomas and diplomas, and then the experience has been added, which has now been ten years old. It is what I said earlier that it is already in place. It's not something we promise of the future. We believe, as I told you before that we have significantly increased not only the number, but above all how the people who are now experienced will work more. Integration into full time was a very important intervention because they can work weekends, holidays, etc. The five-year-old employees could not respond to these obligations. Now they can. It was a request for itself and, of course, it was accepted and implemented. We are very concerned about it, and as I said not only after the catastrophic floods and fires and all these unpleasant summer events. He's been bothering us a long time ago. That is why we are dealing with this issue in our country, as you know we are working together at the level of the European Union on European planning, to defend ourselves in the face of natural disasters and climate change. Natural disasters are no longer a matter of the European South alone, as they were until a few years ago, but today we have phenomena in parts of Northern Europe. So on the initiative of Mr Stylianidis - I would like to say this - we are close to the completion of this European project in which each country is involved, so that there is also a stock of instruments which will, where appropriate, strengthen European countries that are at a difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. We move to the fourth with number 430/19-32019 topical question by the Independent MP II of Athens, Eftathios Panagoulis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "By chemical and trampoculation, they tried to break up the peaceful palliative for Macedonia in the Constitution." Mr Panagoulis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I would like to welcome to the Chamber Mrs Gerovas, who came to reply on 8 April to a timely question I tabled on 21 January. Two more conversations had been set. Mrs. Gerovali told us she had government obligations. What were the government's obligations, Mrs. Gerovali? Was your party events in Arta to support party candidates and did you deceive Parliament? In the Minutes, Mr President, I make the invitations to the two parties to the events of Mrs Gerovas in Arta to inform this House how much Parliament is deceiving. [[At this point, the Member, Efstathos Panagolis, presents for the minutes the invitations referred to above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You need to know, Mrs Gerovas, that in order for this Chamber to function again here, struggles have been held between 1967 and 1974. And you prefer the party flasks to the Greek Parliament. If you want, Mrs. Gerovas, no one forbids you to go to your party events. There are weekends too. The duty of the Member, the Minister, is first the Greek Parliament and then the party figures first! Mr President, I tabled this question for the events that took place on 20 January 2019 at the Palali rally on Macedonia and it comes to be debated after two and a half months. [[Noise from the ministerial benches]] Are you finished, Minister, so I can go on?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u23	Please, Mr. Panagoulis, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u24	We all remember that great palal rally that tens of thousands of Athenians came to perpetuate their faith in Macedonia's Greekity. When the rally spread out of all the streets, hundreds of thousands of civilians arrived, the organs of Ms. Gerovali were arranged for them to be dismantled. And how? By pouring chemicals into unarmed and peaceful protesters rather than fascist and extremist elements, as the Prime Minister said. I was there too, Mrs. Gerovali! And I'm neither a far-right nor a fascist! And you know it very well! And you must be careful when making announcements about those who gather together to declare their faith in democracy and parliamentaryism. Mr. President, what happened at that rally? There was a group of suspects who were gathered in the Propylaea and when they saw that they were dying, they took a line - I don't know where they took the line - and tens of dozens started coming to the House, in front of the Unknown Soldier, others from Queen Olga and Amalia to create a riot. And what did the Greek police men do? Of course they did so not on their own initiative, but on their own initiative, even the Ministry. They started shooting chemically indiscriminately. Because I, Mrs. Gerovasili, was on Philly and Metropolitan Street around the corner and I saw all this. A panic was created, young children fell down, old people fell down and the loudspeakers called on the ambulances to come. In my dentistry, Mrs Gerovas, I will tell you what your President and SYRIZA said before the 2015 elections on chemicals and MATs. But, Mr President, I would like to say that this is unacceptable in the year 2019. We are the only country in Europe that uses chemicals. Because you're also a doctor, if I'm not mistaken, you know very well that the Athens Medical Association has issued a statement about the risk of chemicals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. Madam Minister, before I give you the floor, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and two educational sessions from the 4th Ptolemaida High School. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u26	Mr Panagoulis, after agreeing with you that of course the operation of the Greek Parliament is a priority, I will remind you that the fact that it has been not only my responsibility since then, but this question had been withdrawn, re-entered, I have been to Parliament again but it has not been. In any case, it's not just my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u27	Excuse me, I never interrupt. Nine times I've testified her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u28	Please, Mr. Panagoulis, do not interrupt. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u29	No, I'm not interrupting. Nine times I've testified her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u30	You're welcome. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u31	In any case, I, too, have been to the Greek Parliament several times, by the way. However, the very operation of the Greek Parliament is hierarchical above the priorities of all of us and the preservation of the Greek Parliament is a high hierarchy. And as you know, the day the rally was, it wasn't described as a rally of extreme right-wing people that, Mr. Panagoulis. I and the government spoke of organised right-wing groups, who, in the form of invasion orders themselves, tried to invade the Greek Parliament. You will also see these organised groups, which you have not described. You talked about some teams you don't know what they are and what they are. I can tell you, then, that they were raids which they themselves tried to invade the Greek Parliament. The Greek police, honoring her and the police who were there, self-sacrificingly protected Parliament from this attempt to invade. One problem swept across our country decades and had become a wound to our foreign policy. That day, therefore, was during the debate on the Prespecies Agreement, an agreement which has so far been made a symbolic reference and example for the resolution of transnational disputes, but also every day our fellow citizens experience the positive effects of this agreement. Before this day, for which I, in the Greek Parliament, complained that some were acting out of state, with para-state practices, were targeting with insurmountable and threats, MPs, ministers, their families, but also whoever was in favour of this agreement. I pointed out that these people were motivated by executives of certain political spaces with names and addresses and, of course, I called on all the forces of the democratic arch in Parliament to condemn these behaviours and practices. Not all democratic arch then, Mr. Panagoulis. Because this is the real danger, and this was the real threat, and for this rally, which some people believe is not positive for the country and went to protest peacefully, as you said, with their families and their children. So they tried to dismantle the gathering that day and not the Greek police, who acted only defensively, and that is why the title of your question, namely that by chemical and trabucism, the Greek police tried to dismantle the peaceful palliary, I find myself absolutely contrary to its wording. Your assessments are not correct. Others have tried, only you know that when we try to cover up and when we do not reveal and condemn these practices, then we are also co-responsible for them to take heads and act in these para-state ways and live in these incidents. Many procedurals have been written from those days, there have been many unfortunate incidents throughout the country, but the democratic arc, therefore, did not find a word to condemn these practices. I am not referring to KINAL and Potami, who have condemned, but I am referring to New Democracy and Independent Members. So the cops reacted calmly. These scenes you saw, we saw them all, saw them all in the Greek because they were broadcast from the TVs and they were an unprecedented energy. It brought great catastrophes to Parliament, the Guardian, the President of Parliament - he mentioned all of this - but I think that all of this, and even today you are here, have the opportunity to condemn them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u32	Please, Mr Panagoulis, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u33	I do not doubt the successes of Mrs Gerovas, and before answering what she said, I will respond to something that she is deceiving today. I want to congratulate you, Mrs. Gerovalis, you and the Ministry, for the ninety-two-year-old traveller selling chestnuts and arresting him. I want to congratulate you on the ninety-year-old Granny selling pasummas on the popular markets and arresting her. You and your ministry should ask for an apology from this old grandmother. All you did was say that you will pay her the 200 euro fine. But they're not enough of your successes. I'll tell you a recent success. At Katerini you caught a grandmother of eighty years old because she was selling - she says - weed! Leave that, Mrs. Gerovali, and come and answer us for the chemicals. Do you want me to remind you of what SYRIZA and your President said about chemicals and MATs? ‘Chemicals must be abolished. Only in Greece are they implemented," he said. The MATs - which you wanted to abolish and the MATs - I have never been in agreement with the abolition of MATs - have not only abolished them, but you have not even limited them. I'll remind you one by one, Mrs. Gerovali. On January 8, 2016, in Queen Sofia, in the contribution of the forbidden, Herod Attica, you now threw chemicals and dissolved pensioners. On October 2, 2016, in the Cesarean Symbol you prejudiced and dropped chemically into protesters and citizens who were near the National Symbol of the Symbol. On October 3, 2016, you attacked chemically and prejudiced peaceful pensioners. It was then committed by the Prime Minister, saying "no more chemicals" and the chemicals do not end. Looks like your predecessor, Mr. Toskas, left you a big storeroom. As far as the rally is concerned, that is, that they would enter the Greek Parliament, tell any chick who does not know! There were organized groups from the Propylas, the ‘unknown strangers’, which we all know, but you don't arrest them. It was Mr. Tsipras himself in December 2008 who spoke of police arbitrariness and compared the MATs with state-run gangs that had to be abolished. And, of course, you panicked when you saw the great rally in Athens, because that rally was nothing else, Mr President, by a great referendum by the Greek people on the unacceptable Prespecies Agreement. Mrs. Gerovali, I need you to tell us something else. Are you going to use chemicals from now on? Because only in Greece is chemicals used. I'm not asking you to remove MATs. MATs must exist and exist in all organised societies, but must be under control. Let me ask you something else, 'cause some people told me. She asked, she says, Mrs. Gerovali, if they get into my house at night stealing me, what am I supposed to do? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u34	Please, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u35	Avoid, Mr. Panagoulis, again to describe the invasion battalions. What does "unknown strangers" mean? Who are the ‘unknown strangers’?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u36	Aren't you ashamed? Are you telling me that, when whole family was sacrificed against fascism, when even priests were serving the junta?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u37	Please, Mr. Panagoulis. Madam Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u38	You say what you want and I say what I want, Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u39	You're telling me? I condemn any extremity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Panagulis, calm down. Mr Minister, please continue without interactive discussion. The debate is taking place through the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u41	You say your opinion and I am free to judge your views, Mr Panagoulis, as you are free to judge my own position and opinion. So avoid calling it extreme right-wing, and you said that this attempt to invade, which was seen by the pan-Hellenic, is a novel. You're underestimating the far right right now. Is that what it means? That I don't recognize fascism, so I don't want to face it, so fascism is free to act. So they wanted to dismantle the rally and then be the Greek police, which will dismantle the rally, because it always has to be another person in charge. Organized teams that brought with them, contours that had the Greek flag, so for the decor, and Greek flags beat the policemen in an unprecedented attack, which, by the police of MAT twenty-five children, went to the hospital and they said they had never met her in their lives. The Greek police therefore acted defensively. He used the instrument that he thought at the time to be milder, because you realised what it would mean, if within this peaceful rally, with children and the elderly, the Greek Police entered and clashed with these strike teams, which numbered about a hundred and which, as you said, were organized and invaded. This was the important event, the first attempt to invade the Greek Parliament by extreme right-wing groups. This is the danger of the time, Mr Panagoulis, and that is why more than ever today it is necessary for the progressive front, the progressive alliance, the alliance of progressive forces in Greece, because they have also taken the lead in Greece and in Europe. Austerity, neoliberalism are the causes that give birth to him and we must stand up to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, sixteen questions for a number of reasons will not be answered. The second question, under number 439/22-32019, of the second question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy, Christos Stakos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Confidences of guarantees of the Greek State on loans granted to private enterprises and natural disasters", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, on account of a workload. The third, with number 440/22-32019, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vasiliou Yoyakas, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Addressing serious outstanding outstandings regarding the approval of special treatments", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, on account of a workload. The fifth, under No. 416/12-32019, topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy, George Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Tractical staff shortages at the Kilkis Hospital", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, due to a workload. The sixth question under number 414/8-32019 of a second question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Procedures for drunkenances at the expense of the services provided by the ending of the Pathological Clinic of the Amalada Hospital" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Polakis, due to a workload. The seventh question under number 421/12-3-2019, topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In suspension the Surgery Clinic of the General Hospital of Kilkis, due to lack of staff, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, due to a workload. The thirteenth, with number 316/29-1-2019, a topical question from the Member of the Laconia Parliamentary Independence, Leonida Gregorakos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Delays in the crossing of patients from the EKA in intensive treatment facilities due to the lack of medical staff", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, due to a workload. The fourteenth under number 332/5-2-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, concerning the "chronic problems of the Psychiatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PANGN)" will not be discussed due to a hindrance of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, due to a workload. The Fifteenth under number 329/4-2-2019 topical question from the Deputy Dramas of the New Republic, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Creation of a Bran Hospital / Oncological Clinic at the General Hospital of Drama", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, due to a workload. The sixteenth, under number 322/4-2-2019, topical question by Congressman Larissa of Democratic Incorporation Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Exceedances of chemical treatments", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, due to a workload. The eighth under number 420/12-3-2019 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance on “The Greek Vehicle Industry “EL.V.A.B.”””, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The tenth under number 355/12-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, on the transfer of real estate to a Public Real Estate Company (ETAD) - Fund for the Development of Private Property of the Government (THEPT) will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, due to a workload. Eleventh question under number 350/11-2-2019 from the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy, Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Support Account of the National Bank of Greece (LEPETE)" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The twelfth, with number 351/11-2-2019, is a topical question from the Member of Parliament of the Republican Association, Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the supreme building by demanding the lenders of fifty of the public property in the Municipality of Pyrgos", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The second question under number 2932/31-10-2018 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Demobilization of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium of the "National School" of Athens, from the Supreme Court, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The ninth under number 375/20-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Integration Mr Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Participation of Greece in the European Union's defence cooperation", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of National Defence Mr.Apostolakis, due to the fact that the Minister of National Defence intends to inform the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, inter alia, on this matter. Also, the second question under number 454/27-3-2019 of the first cycle of the Piraeus People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Rados to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "No arrest in Corinth, where Roma groups carried out violence", will be discussed. The seventeenth under number 262/9-1-2019 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Emergent need for an increase in military service", will not be discussed. We now move on to the debate of the first under number 461/1-4-2019 on the second time question by the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas, on the subject: "Healthy hotel businesses are at risk of "luketo" on account of VAT allocation". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Papanatsiou. Here, Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a major crisis began in Greece in 2009, which shaken the foundations of the Greek economy and had tragic consequences for the Greek society. I would remind you that unemployment has reached 28%, which means that more than one million of our fellow citizens have been unemployed. Let me note that during the years of the crisis the Greek economy lost about 25% of the Gross Domestic Product. Unfortunately, all this has had the consequences that we are still trying to face today. We have an economy that needs serious investment in order to restore growth, create jobs and increase the revenues of the State through the expansion of the tax base and new investments, not by increasing taxes to themselves and to them. In these years of crisis, however, there were some who risked. There were, in other words, some investors who decided to invest money, take this great risk and in this way help the Greek economy, but also the local society where they tried to invest their money and especially in a sector, such as the tourist industry, which is very helpful, as you well know, the Greek economy. The problem that existed, Minister, is that throughout this crisis, as you know very well, the possibility of lending from the banking system was very limited and also, unfortunately, the state, was delayed in bringing to bear all these investors who had joined development laws the subsidies they were awarded through the investment schemes that they had deposited in the Greek state and had been approved - I repeat - from it. This has resulted in many of them going beyond five years, while, as you know, these investments have had five years of implementation. However, they were completed in the sixth year or in the seventh year. However, during all years of the construction of the investment they received the VAT which they had spent on during the construction, the implementation of the investment. In other words, they were given the possibility of VAT being reimbursed, since during the five years they had begun the operation of the company. However, as the implementation of these investments was delayed and the operation of the investment began in the sixth or seventh year, the state comes back and calls for the corresponding amount of VAT that had been reimbursed to them during the first and second years of the implementation of the investment project and, indeed, with a fine and of course with the corresponding interest, which have been due from that time until today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The question is whether and what you intend to do to correct this great injustice these people suffer. Because, as you can see - and I think you agree - it is a mistake, since they have been late to complete their investment, because of the crisis and the public's delay to give them subsidies and, of course, because of the non-extension of your Ministry of State's ability to start their investment in the sixth and seventh years. Such an extension, however, had given the Ministry of Development to complete the investment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Under Article 33 of the VAT Code, the provisions of Articles 184 to 192 of the VAT Directive have been incorporated into national law, which regulates VAT procedures and reductions in the exercise of its economic activity by a taxpayer. Paragraph 1 of that Article provides that the deduction of value added tax made on the basis of the VAT returns submitted by a person for the purchase of an investment good is subject to a final settlement. And that's because he may have bought the investment item, but from there on we may have discounts or sold it or not exist. Thus, in this procedure for the harmonisation of Article 187 of the Directive, which concerns all investments subject to development laws and not just hotel enterprises, our country has defined as a five-year follow-up period a five-year period since the year of commencement of use of the investment good and not from the time when it was acquired or built, as is the case in some other cases. Critical year, therefore, for the taxpayer is the first year he will use his investment good. From there on, annually it is subject to certain checks to see, as I have said before, whether all the conditions and the existence of the investment good exist. In the case of changes within the above five-year period in terms of the use of the investment good, it is required to refund the applicable tax rate, 1/5 for each year. Apart from this, however, Article 189 of the Directive allows Member States to take further measures to prevent unjustified advantages from deducting VAT on investment goods. Our country has made use of this provision and has introduced the regulation since 1992, with the addition of some subparagraph of Article 33(3) of the VAT, which provides for the obligation of the taxpayer, if five years has elapsed since the date of the first purchase cost, without starting and using the capital goods, to make a one-off arrangement of the total tax and to refund this tax to the State, since it is considered that these goods have been allocated only as duty-free transactions. The investor must, therefore, have completed the investment within the five years of the first expenditure. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] And here I come to know that in the days of the previous governments, which you know very well, there have been too many extensions. Thus, we had the investment plan, in 3299 of 2004, a last article 24 of Law 4146 of 2013 - which was on your day - and we arrived until December 31, 2015. All of this had been extended beyond five years. However, we have not seen any change in the VAT law. Ten years has been the extension of the laws you have given. At the same time, investors remained hostages despite the corresponding extension of VAT. Our Government now, in the context of economic development and in the context of strengthening private investment in development laws, has given extensions, as you have said. And indeed, both development laws that had not been completed were extended to be completed in the next period. With this extension we have rekindled the mature investments. And despite the country's difficult budgetary tightness, we have incorporated them into a financing and integration process. In order not to exceed time, in my dentistry, I will tell you what we are thinking of doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Screkas has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u47	I'll explain exactly what has been done to make it clearer. An investor would have submitted an investment plan to the Ministry of Development under Laws 2601/1998 or 3299/2004 and had an opportunity to complete its investment in five years. For this five-year period of completion every year, what it was building, the invoices it was paying for, the VAT for these tariffs, was able to get them back, because this procedure is defined as duty-free, as you said, in other words, the VAT is deducted so that an investment project with a VAT is not actually charged, when the investment is not in operation and is still in construction. The reality is that before 2009 there was no crisis, the lending was easy than the banks and the investments flowed more easily. We may have extended some of the development laws because the investment had not started to be built, completed for several reasons that were again relevant to the administration, such as that permits, environmental conditions, administrative permits, could not be obtained, and that is why the investment could not be started, but once a five-year investment had been built, it was a reasonable time to complete it, and of course the investor was taking back the VAT that it was due. We are now talking about the years of the 2009-2019 or 2015 crisis on the ground. In this period and lending was very difficult and the state did not give the subsidies in time, so that the investor did not have the money to complete his investment quickly, and anyway, there was a difficult situation over and above what one could predict. Some, for example, while starting the first year of five years to build their investment, at the end of the fifth year they had not finished and the investment was completed in the sixth year and started operating in the sixth year or early in the seventh. These people are coming now and the Greek state is punishing them. Why is he punishing them? Because while they have been able to complete their investment in six years and not in five, the state comes back and calls for the VAT that was first paid from the five years of construction and even increased by fines, but also with interest. And the question is very simple: since we agree, and I think you agree, why do we not change Article 33 of the VAT Code to an extension of two or three years for those who have completed their investment projects and have started operating their operations so that we do not shut them down? Because when we come and account for these sums, which often exceed one million, it can be one and two and three million, you understand, Mr President, that these people cannot cope with them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The question, then, is this: Why do we not make this amendment so that we can resolve and continue to work there hundreds, perhaps thousands, workers in these investments and continue to have State revenues from their operation? Because these enterprises today are operating and the state has income from both VAT and tax on the profits they may have, but also from the contributions they pay for staff, whether they are employers' or income tax from workers working in these enterprises. I think, therefore, that there is no disagreement between the government and between the opposition parties and the opposition parties in this regard, and I think that we can immediately move on to such legislation that will give a permanent solution to these investors, who - I repeat - risked the years of the crisis with all this suffering and succeeded and completed their investment. And we are now coming and punishing them with a threat of closure and bankruptcy, because the state is coming and asking them for VAT increased and with interest and fines, and without actually being blamed for what has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u48	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u49	You have extended ten years and you do not extend the VAT law. We're coming to us now. We have proved instantly that our intention is to deal with problems. We've had so many problems so far. This is another problem which we think will be dealt with as well. We are interested in improving entrepreneurship. We are interested in removing the negative consequences of the prolonged budgetary crisis. I would like to say to you that we are following the development of the investment projects of all previous investment laws and we have requested information from the Independent Public Income Authority from the controlled companies, where we are controlled for the settlement. Because it is not just the business you mentioned now, there are some other companies in our country that are in the same category. We want to see which ones they have joined in these laws. They have requested the reimbursement of the VAT on investment goods, and the five-year period has elapsed from the Independent Public Revenue Authority, from their first construction expenditure, in order to determine the amount of the financial costs of any legislative initiative. From the information we will have next period, we will see how we are going to proceed with the legislative process of extending VAT, at the same time as development laws.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u50	We continue with the first with number 1867/25-9-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Finance, on the protection of the traditional settlement - historical site of Kampos Chios and its surroundings from excessive taxation and landscaping. Please, Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, my question concerns, in our opinion, the irrational and excessive taxation of the case of Campus, part of Chios, of a particular natural beauty, which I should like to say to you that, with two declarations of 1990 and 1992, it has been described as a historic and traditional place. At the same time, I must tell you that this area has retained its agricultural character, because there are cultures of citrus trees there usually. Indeed, there is also the famous mandarin of Chios, which is known to be a product of designation of origin. At the same time, Campos is considered by the "EUROPA NOTRA" as one of the seven most threatened monuments of cultural heritage in Europe. There is one problem, namely that the taxation of these land as a whole takes place not as parcels for the piece, which is cultivated, but as plots as a whole, despite the housing constraints on the parcels in question. That is what you will allow me to refer to my dentistry. I shall refer to the most specific urban sanctions that exist, the restrictions that exist. The question is whether your Ministry intends to make some legislation, especially in the areas that are characterised as historic and traditional places, such as Campos of Chios. The question is whether it intends to regulate, so that the properties of Kambos are taxed as land for the area already built or built on the basis of the specific building restrictions that exist and, of course, for the rest of them, which is a rural area, to be taxed as agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u52	Madam Minister, before I give you the floor, I would like to make it known to the House that the Minister of Finance, the Vice-President of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Ministers of Home Affairs, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign Affairs, Citizens' Protection, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Migration Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Maritime and Island Policy, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, have tabled a draft law on 5-2019: 'I. Proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the Agreement in the form of an exchange of letters concerning the provisional application of the Protocol establishing the fishing opportunities and financial Harmonization of the VAT Code Directive (EU) 2016/1065, III. Incorporation of points 1, 2, 4 and 5 of Article 2 and Articles 4, 4, 6, 7 and 8 of Directive 1164/2016, IV. Adopted by the Commission on 17 December. Regulations (EC) No 2971/2001 and (EC) No 2971/2001.' It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. It is also known to the House that the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, Minister of Home Affairs, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Island Policy, Tourism and State, Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Economic and Energy, and the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Culture and Sport, Economic and Development, and Social Security, tabled a draft law on 8-24-2019 on “Greek Bank and Development and Social Solidarity”. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u53	I would like to begin, Mr President, by referring to the first electronic recording of the known form E9 in 2005. There all natural and legal persons had to declare their property and property rights. On the basis of the information available in E9, from there on various property taxes were imposed. It is the real estate tax, the EBRD and since 2013, and then all known to us HICP for the properties located in Greece that belong to natural or legal persons or any kind of entities on January 1st of each year. In addition to the buildings, this tax is imposed on plots and off-site areas. Each taxable person shall be required to submit the declaration electronically. Table 1 lists the buildings, as well as the plots that are relevant in each case. Table 2 shows the fields that are out of plan and are known to all of our agricultural parcels. So the tax on the rights to the buildings in the inner design, the settlements or the fields outside the plan - which are the parcels - is calculated on the basis of the geographical location, the surface, the use, the old times, the floor, the number of facets of the building and the corresponding factors. With regard to buildings located inside or outside the plan, but no zone value has been established, in these cases it is defined as a zone value for these properties - and assembles respectively the plots - the lowest zone value that exists in the municipality. If it does not exist in the municipality, we take the lower price of the municipality and if it does not exist in the municipality, the lower zone price of the regional unit concerned. In addition, for the plots located in those areas and the plot coefficients have not been established, the total plot start-up price, the land use coefficient, again in this case the lower plot coefficients of the municipality or the municipality or region concerned are taken. Now let's see the concept of a traditional settlement. The image of the urban and rural landscape, which coexists with the characteristics of the land's residence and cultivation, is characterized by the term 'traditional settlement'. There are many areas in our country where urban planning has not been completed. Traditional settlements are considered the settlements that have maintained the image they have previously had, as well as their local character. The traditional settlements characterised by legislation in Greece go beyond eight hundred. According to the Code of Basic Urban Law, there are several categories of settlements, the limits of which, as well as the general and specific conditions of construction, are laid down by decisions of the respective prefectures before or by presidential decrees. We must now come to the region of Kambu, Chios. It has been classified as a historic site and there are already beneficial provisions on the Single Property Property Tax, HISPIA, in particular in both the main and the additional tax. This is where the reduced rates are applied for those buildings that have been classified as works of art and historically preserved monuments with decisions of the Ministry of Culture. I know that in Campos, Chios, they have been characterized, by a decision of the Ministry of Culture, as works of art and historically preserved monuments of at least 10 properties of Kampos, Chios. Indeed, as you mentioned and I know, Kambos of Chios is a perhaps unique settlement of agricultural land and a sensitive part of the Greek and more general European area, where the functions of housing and agriculture are harmonious with the gardens of citrus fruit, as you mentioned in your speech. Campos of Chios is an area of great architectural and historical importance within the centuries and has been characterized by a historic site by the Ministry of Culture. I reserve to continue in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u55	Madam Secretary, I would like to highlight and refer a little further to the urban constraints that apply to the Cabo region. I must first say to you that it is forbidden to partition the land in less than eight acres and from these eight acres it is only possible to build four hundred meters. The balances in no way can be built. You therefore realise that it is self-evident that it is unreasonable that the entire plot should be considered as building-in and therefore that the E9 should be declared by the people. In recent times, the invitations to the inhabitants have been intensified to change the status of plots on plots, to declare their own property as land, even though clear urban constraints do not allow them to build more than four hundred meters at eight acres. So, Minister, I think it is absolutely reasonable to ask - I think that this is something that all residents in the region are asking for, and I must tell you that there are decisions by the municipal council - to be taxed as a land, regardless of whether the four hundred measures which are built and the rest as a plot have been built. I think that somehow this absurdity, let me say, the excessive, I would say, taxation should be cured.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u56	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u57	Indeed, the case of Kampus, Chios, is a difficult exercise for us, and indeed for a tax, HISPIA, which really needs rationalisation. We have started and made some corrective moves for the benefit of our economically weak fellow citizens. Already in 2018 we adjusted the scales of the calculation of the basic tax on buildings, HISPIA. Moreover, the additional tax is now imposed instead of the two thousand in property of more than two hundred and fifty thousand. In addition, at the end of 2018, we also legislated on reductions in HPAI - the ones announced by the Prime Minister at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki - which will apply to this year's EMA, 2019 and small property will be up to 30%. We discussed the issue of Kampus, Chios, with all the actors, at a meeting that we had done on your own initiative at the Ministry. We have concluded that what could facilitate the region and which I would like to bring back is the integration of the region into the objective system for determining real estate values. It can be a belt, it can become more belts. It will appreciate the local society, the municipality how the zones can be made in this area, so that from there on the value assessment is made, and the taxes are calculated accordingly, whether this is HNVIA or transfer taxes, as any integration into the objective system will also bring together all other taxes. This zone price will be reflected by accredited real estate valuers in the Ministry of Finance and will also be determined by a special six-member committee, as well as special construction conditions that will be proposed for this region, so that the real value of the property in the building is safely established, as I have said above, the property tax will be calculated so that we do not actually have this portrait today, so that it cannot build it, be unable to be a plot. And I think that in Chios you want to keep it that way too. It's one of the ornaments in the area, so have the fairest treatment. I think that in the next period, within 2020, we will solve all the difficulties that exist in HNVY, and we will be able to rationalise some things, although you, too, see how you can integrate this area into some areas according to your local need, find the fairest tax for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u58	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-08-S1-commons.u59	With the consent of the House at 19.33 the sitting is closed for Thursday 11 April 2019 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
