ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning and a good start will begin. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Preparation of the State Budget for the financial year 2020’. The speaker of the Movement of Change, Mr. Charia Kefalidou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u2	Good morning and good week to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget. The numbers are prospering. In a five-month race of speed, the new government is trying to demonstrate that last July we entered a new era, the growth rate of growth, the reduction of overtaxation, the respect of the middle-class, the strengthening of investment and the available incomes of the citizens and support for vulnerable social groups. The new government appeared with a concrete plan and strategy, ready to implement an agenda for the development and relief of the middle class, for which it was voted on. And indeed, since 7 July, people's sense of the future of the country has changed greatly, political air has also changed. The fact that the 2020 budget was closed without asterisks and without delay shows that day after day the country's credibility is restored and is not treated as the “poor and unworthy relative”. So all this is good and to some extent justifies the sense of optimism. They would, however, be of enormous importance and value for Greece, if they were in the budget too. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the most critical law, which reflects reality and proposes changes in the philosophy and perspective of the country. Unfortunately, the figures do not confirm the sense of government euphoria. You will tell me 'a pity about the numbers'. But they show something, they show that the structure, the perception, the choices, the ideas we have for our national economy has not changed. After ten years of crisis we are discussing a state budget, identical to the previous ones, without the necessary areas, with the usual figures, which do not exceed the sterile accounting balance, with the only ambition of balancing revenue and expenditure, integrating any benefits. The question is: Is it enough? Is that enough, when there's still a huge tax gap? Is that enough to escape the reproduction of the poverty of the Greek family and the Greek company? Will it be enough when the average taxpayer is still having a hard time getting out in the first fortnight of the month, will he continue to accumulate unpaid instalments of housing loan, will he continue to live the seizure nightmare, which will at best be able to push a few months ahead? Is it enough, when exogenous parameters are ignored, dictating a specific development model and therefore impose specific choices, objectives and priorities on the structure and orientation of the budget? No reason for climate change, for reclassifications in international trade, for developments in energy issues, for demographic and ageing populations, for the changing international environment - 'Brexit' is ahead of doors - for migratory flows and their consequences, all of which without any alternatives being proposed in the budget direction. Conclusion? The government has changed, economic policy is still not. I have heard the Deputy Minister, Mr. Psulakakis, who is here today, saying that we have almost zero surplus this year and that the road to policies will be opened, which will not be austerity policies. The fact is that this year is the first budget in recent years, where positive measures are forward, are triggered at the beginning of the year, in advance, depleting any financial space available. Thus, the primary surplus reaches 3.58%, which is only 0.08% above the official target of 3.5%, set by the government. But how is that ensured? We are told that there is a expectation of growth, which will come mainly from future and uncertain investments, which the government hopes to see. However, expectations are not of a measurable size. We also hope for it, and we wish it, but the budget is not made with wishes and expectations. Ladies and gentlemen, in front of us we have a combined budget, a disciplined policy and prudent management, but that follows the dilemma. It does not escape the tactics of over-estimating forecasts, within the country's commitments, in which it remains locked. A budget with uncertainties and undefinitionalities, in all its predictions. It is also certified by the Greek Financial Council, which stresses that liquidity and instability in the international environment may have a negative impact on its implementation. It is certainly not a little, after four years of opportune and foreign policy SYRIZA. Of course, it is a great change, especially in the psychology of the citizens and the feeling they have about the state and potential of the country. However, from the present government, which did not invest in "magic" solutions, we expected more, mainly, substantial areas that will change the country's way. You know, the first good impression of a government that does things is very important, gives a new impetus and changes market psychology. However, this is at risk of disappearing, due to the lack of liquidity in the banking system, because of the red loans, which unfortunately remains and is preventing credit expansion. The 'HRAKLIS' plan, which we have just voted on, is completely questionable whether it will relieve the real economy, with a banking practice strangling natural persons and small and medium-sized enterprises. It is at stake because of the inability to change Greece's image. It carries all the burdens that the "SYRIZANEL" government has passed and is therefore binding agreements and a suffocating control. Finally, because of the inability to change everyday life, with budgetary interventions, reductions in taxes and some social benefits in the middle and low incomes, which will, once again, support the achievement of the surplus of 7 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on July 12, 2019, the Prime Minister, starting his cycle of visits by the Ministry of Education, stated that education is an absolute political priority, as well as that the new government will speed up the implementation of a plan for quality public education. The statement by the Prime Minister, in order not to be understood as wish or words of air, should therefore be reflected in the relevant funds for education in the budget under discussion. On the other hand, quality in public education among others also needs funding. And for it to remain in public, its funding must come primarily and crucially from the state. At the same time, we cannot ignore the struggles of students, students and the Greek family for the future of public school and public university. Announcing fireworks every three and five, the rush to settle the status of private colleges, coupled with the substantial refusal of public dialogue through institutions such as the National Education Council and finally, the announcement recently made on the responsibilities of the new PPP for the evaluation of PDIs, a basket that the Ministry throws away the responsibility for their funding, keeps us restless, especially for regional universities. We cannot therefore fail to note that the funds provided for in the 2020 budget for education refer to a government which is aware of public education where it has been in recent years. Last and prestigious at 28 European Union expenditure, according to the official figures from EUROSTAT. Who disagrees that it needs modernisation, upgrading quality, investing in research, technology, innovation, extroversion?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u3	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u4	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, we have come out of the crisis, we are diagnosing it in all ways. We must therefore spend more. This budget, with the slight increase in expenditure on education, does not seem to have taken the task of education in the 21st century seriously, does not seem to us to understand what the future of the country is. Thank you for your understanding, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Baraliakos has the floor from New Democracy and Mr. Kokkalis, Mr. Himaras, Mr. Papastasis, will be followed by the Minister of Education, Mr. Kerameos. Mr. Baraliaco, you have the floor. And I'd be beg a lot about the consistency in time. I am not addressing you to all colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u6	I shall be consistent, Mr President, thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the first budget of the Government of New Democracy, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, marks the definitive coercion by the sterile and barren economic environment of the previous years in which we have been blocked by SYRIZA's incomplete and ideological policy. It liberates the Greek economy's development prospects and the unstable dynamics of the Greeks and places our country on tracks of irreversible optimism, without the risk of being derailed by uncertainties and omissions of fiscal intrusion. It contributes, in other words, to our great vision of the regeneration of our country with the realistic and sound management of budgetary figures. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget unequivocally seals Greece's transition to a new and hopeful era. A transition, which could have come much earlier than the previous government, with a pillar of New Democracy, if it had not been violently interrupted by the resalto that SYRIZA unleashed, ruthlessly and vengelessly destroying the enormous advances that had taken place until then. Greece would have come out in the clearing of economic growth and fiscal relief as early as 2015. The apprentice magicians of SYRIZA have consciously undermined this course and the government's "assets" then narrated the prospect of prosperity of the Greeks, adding new burdens and leading to new cuts. When growth rates in the euro area countries were flooding, we had suffered an irreparable precipitation in all economic sizes. Just before we get up to the float of growth, our Left cleaned up in chains with its ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, the climate has changed for our country. And you know why it changed? Because this government has managed within a few months to gain the confidence of all its interlocutors, both inside and outside Greece, and to speed up the reform initiatives, while at the same time respecting the budgetary objectives. Confidence, ladies and gentlemen, is hard to gain and is easily lost. And what you managed to achieve in the 4.5 years that you had the fate of the country in your hands was to tear down from the first months of your administration what the Samara government built, which undoubtedly gained recognition of the world community. You have broken it down with the dangerous narcissists who played the country in dice, smuggling their European interlocutors. Those who were pressing and prosecuting that if Greece left the euro or went bankrupt would be able to lend it. Those who took care of their eccentric statements - analogous to their dress - have the lights of publicity on them, while others felt that they would burden the duo and the markets would dance. Ladies and gentlemen, today's budget reflects the implementation of the government's election commitments. Rapidly and effectively repositions the country's path of growth, eliminating distortions and market liberalisation, while in a structured and hierarchical manner it relieves households, middle-class and vulnerable social groups with targeted interventions. The self-evident thing that has been called for in recent years is happening everywhere. Regularity is finally coming back to the country. The great proportion of the budget this year is that it is the starting point of a large financial and development framework, which is part of a wider draft national strategy. The government's targeted legislative interventions so far through the reduction of HPAI, the improvement of the 120-dollar reduction, the new tax bill, the new development bill, the Greek government's guarantee for the bank's red loans, the simplification of procedures for the protection of first homes, the total abolition of capital controls, the liberalisation of a number of important investments, the reform programme that governs the philosophy of the budget, and, at the same time, the need to restore injustices, without populist and irresponsible extremism that will jeopardise fiscal stability and adaptation. Ladies and gentlemen, all this has already begun. It's not just proclamations and wishful promises. We're not the ones of this school. Politics pays us back. Our most reliable benchmark is always civil society. We are addressing it, it is of interest and it will ultimately judge us. Already households, businesses, free professionals, farmers and young people are reaping the fruits of this policy. We don't give it from one pocket to take it from the other. We honour the truth agreement that we signed with the citizens and we are still at the beginning. But we must also stress one more thing. The importance of this year's budget is also reinforced by the fact that - despite the growing climate of tension in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean, the disarmament of Turkish provocation, the reclassifications in the western Balkans and the shocks of a Great Brexit - Greece remains a pillar of stability, regains dynamically in the economic field with the prospect of playing a wider role of regional power. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no time to lose. The budget of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the advert of the new era for our country. Indicator, for the bet of a great, powerful and radiant Greece. And that is why I call on you to vote in favour of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Vassilis Kokalis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the budget, let me make a comment on the ongoing challenges of Ankara. I think it is necessary as ever and necessary to convene the Council of Political Heads and to create a blunt front against Turkey's continuing provocative behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to vote on a budget for 2020. I am not used to speaking with judgments subjective, rather than on facts. The real facts, ladies and gentlemen, are no other than your own writings - which seem to be ignored - yours, which you have tabled and which contain. You are ignoring and conducting trials completely subjective. You will allow me to make a brief reference to some parts of the preliminary draft budget which was tabled two months ago and which are repeated in the budget itself. On page 7 it says that 2019 is the first year of implementation of economic policy outside economic adjustment programmes, since 2009. Subsequently, on page 9, it states that in relation to the progress of budgetary reforms in the European Commission's latest enhanced surveillance report in June 2019, progress is recognised in some tax reforms. We're talking about June 2019. On page 11 below, it states that the strong export performance of 2018 is expected to be mitigated in 2019. On page 12 then, it states that in 2019 the annual rate of change in all domestic deposits was accelerated, indicating an increase of 7.8% on average in the first seven months. Finally, on page 19 it states that the fiscal and economic policy pursued in 2019 (with the specificity that it concerned two governments) had as a common priority the achievement of objectives such as the protection of vulnerable social groups by implementing OPEK actions, the thirteenth pension and so on. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, you have signed it and tabled it here in the House. All of these are your texts, from which it turns out, first of all, that your claim that you received a burnt land is not correct, and all that you have said is to clear up the Greek people's vote. Secondly, from the writings you have submitted here to the House, which I mentioned and which you are exulting the course of public finances, it is clear that any tax reductions could only apply from 2019. The third and important thing is that it turns out that you had a golden opportunity, in fact, to bring the country into a fair and truly sustainable development, aiming at those who really need it and the backbone of the Greek economy. Instead, the golden opportunity is, unfortunately, turned into a lost opportunity. It is transformed into a lost opportunity for small and medium-sized free professionals, the majority of which will not see alleviations but only large businesses. You could lead to tax relief for businesses and not business, significantly reducing the advance payment of tax and depreciation, giving incentives to businesses and not to entrepreneurs, giving incentives to increase the assets of businesses, to subsidise jobs and equipment. It's a waste of opportunity, but it's also for property owners. On 9 November, Mr Stavros Paradias, who is the president of the Federation of Property Owners of Greece, addressed a question. And Mr. Paradise never belongs to SYRIZA. What does Mr Paradise say to the Minister of Finance? On which very page in the New Democracy programme is it written that you will increase taxation on property owners? That's what Mr. Paradise asks, not us. Give me the answer. However, the budget is a lost opportunity for farmers too, because with the EUR 8 500 000 tax, which reaches EUR 9,600, they are not at all illustratively affected by tax relief. Nor did we see anywhere and see agricultural oil, which you promised. Furthermore, the budget for the Ministry of Rural Development is reduced by EUR 50 million and there is no provision for the recruitment of an eighty permanent staff to the Ministry of Rural Development, which we had launched. It is a waste of opportunity for the unemployed too, because you are reducing the funds in the OAS's employment programme. Lost opportunity is also for the social state, because you are singing - with the exception of the childbirth allowance - benefits such as rent and family allowances. However, a lost opportunity is indeed for borrowers too. Is it true, in this bill which you voted on within about ten hours last week, is there even a favourable arrangement for borrowers? The answer comes from the General Confederation of Professional Craft Trades in Greece, which says that in addition to the guarantee provided by the draft law, there is nothing to say about the effects that these changes may have on borrowers. It is therefore a lost- opportunity budget for borrowers as well. This budget, apart from anti-social and anti-government, is clearly also a lost opportunity budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u9	Mr Haimaras Themistoklis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as in real life, in politics, one can find many causes of disagreement, conflict and confrontation. In this particular Chamber, and from this step, we are accustomed to criticising, over-analysis of what separates us and slightly indifferent to what unites us. Of course, this practice often leads to positive comments and makes you politically won. But who are those satisfied, ladies and gentlemen? Who are our fellow citizens, who will meet us next day on the street and congratulate us for attacking our opponents by force? Are they the ones who know their problems or possible solutions? Are they the ones who are primarily interested in the common good or those who will still ask us for a personal service? Is it not the people who think that the AACC can even be overruled today? I am thinking of all the aspects of the National Representation, and I do so, ladies and gentlemen, because I should like today not to address my close party audience. I would like to address the citizen who is concerned, who is as tired as I am of the endless controversy and disagreements that have led our country to the cliff and, of course, our economy to collapse, who, instead of me, proposes the country's tomorrow and the future of our children. This future is the challenge of the battle that we all have to fight together. In order to give this matching coordinates, we should at least agree on the basics. To agree, for example, that the economic crisis and the repatriations of recent years have hit the credibility of our country, which we are now all called upon to recover, the credibility of our citizens to politicians and third parties to the economy of our country. This is what the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has been trying since the first day that the country took over and over the last five months of its government. After a number of important and key legislation, today's budget seals in the best and most realistic way, precisely this first target. The increase in the income of the weak, the reduction in the overtaxation of the middle class and business, the rationalisation of state expenditure are the main pillars. The basis for the complete and definitive reversal of the negative economic climate that has characterised Greece in recent years is thus set. I could for the time being dwell on the components that created the economic recession in the previous period, to refer to the data that proves that in the period of previous governance, taxpayers were charged with 15.5 billion additional measures, to argue and prove, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that with the economic policy you have implemented, you have built a climate of uncertainty for every possible investor, exploding the risk of investment in our country, the country's risk, which has made Greece known worldwide as an unholy country to every investor. It is of paramount importance that we make investors trust us again. I repeat this, ladies and gentlemen, in every public position, and I will repeat it today, because I believe it. If we do not regain investors' confidence, unless we take advantage of the country's enormous potential, we cannot have a sustainable and healthy economy. I am well aware, as a free professional myself, but also from my previous position in the last five years as Vice-Regional Entrepreneur of Central Greece, that a central investment in an area that has been rationally exploited, comparatively, only benefits of the place will result in multiplier benefits. Since, therefore, the financial area is the issue of the development of each budget, this is the best way of achieving it, in conjunction with fiscal, developmental and social measures which the New Democracy Government is planning and already implementing. The implementation of specific investments is the one which has the power to relaunch the local and regional economy. I will mention again the example of my own county, Fthiotis, which has dozens of excellent medical sources, with their infrastructures - where they exist - on an absolute abandonment. Since 2011, when five real estates with medical sources came to the SWEDEN for use, the potential sprinkles of Fthiotida could already be a pillar of development through the public and private bodies partnership. However - and here is the tragic - the state itself has been a brake on the use of thermal sources, the state itself has been a brake on the use of a productive factor that can change once and for all the development prospects of a prefecture and a region. You see, we are still waiting, as we have for decades, for the completion of environmental studies, for the modification of orbital projects, for the drafting of ESADA, which will allow for the search for investors and the creation, in substance, of an economy where it does not exist. Faced with such lost opportunities, we are responding with the progress made, speeding up that we have achieved on 7 July, a course that we are now supporting even more and which can lead to jobs for all and for all, the arrest of Brain Drain and the transition to Brain Gain, to a social state with strong foundations, which a family will not be afraid to have a child at the expense of unbearable expenses and which people with special abilities will have substantial financial support, enhanced fair and important public funding, education, infrastructure and health. Since what I described to you before, ladies and gentlemen, applies to every prefecture of Greece, that is to say if we aim at the strong papers of each region and let the generalities and development days, the fruits analyses and the reports on the economy and public interest, we can first change the small and then the great image of Greece, stable, hierarchically and confidently, keep our children in the place where they were born and raised, give the opportunities and opportunities that the new generation seeks with thirst for work and creation and support it, in the new generation, the regeneration of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u11	Next speaker Nikos Papanastassis from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the practical meaning of implementing the budget should be the optimisation of the daily life of our people. And what's that everyday life? Let us see its main areas and I do not think anyone can question them, because the one who is outside the thick protective walls of the House, the range of security cameras and the guard here, that is, the one who is devastated by this people, lives every moment on his side. What are these areas? In health: underfunding of welfare facilities, subsistence, working relationships and elasticity of workers, since the exterior and unpaid hours are called upon to cover the huge gaps, hospitals and health centers with an absence of even minimums, extension of the action of business groups, and a people who put their hand deep in the pocket to cover their care instantly. Has the government heard that? In education, people's families live a Golgotha. They pay for the education of their children in each step, from primary to higher education institutions, IEKs and other training centres. In welfare, closed institutions, cut off the treatments of children in need of special treatment, downgrading of provision services due to sub-financing, checked disability benefits, reduced and all kinds of benefits. He hasn't heard that either. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you know them and you know them very well. But your policy is in line with supporting the interests of pluralism. What now comes to cover your budget, this instrument for implementing the economic policy in question? Which one of these problems solves? The answer is, absolutely none. Health expenditure is down by 4.5% compared with 2019, i.e. by EUR 182 million. Health and education are further provided. This means to the people's family that the hand goes deeper into the pocket. Reduction of total pension expenditure by EUR 92 million. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, the pro-Folish policy of the Government of New Democracy is reflected. On the other hand, a 7% reduction in taxation on enterprises, namely those who will have increased profitability. Beyond these or rather, it is commonly accepted that the domestic policy is fully linked to the respective foreign policy, as well as to the foundations of the strategic coexistence of urban parties beyond the support of the interests of the large business groups is the support of imperialist organisations, American designs. Governments may alternate. However, the main axes of their internal and foreign policy remain the same: on the one hand capitalist development and, on the other, the geostrategic upgrading of economic groups by extending their activities. The budget that we are discussing, precisely, serves. It adds new burdens to the people, strengthens the profitability of capital. But all this has already been analysed by the position of the rapporteurs of the Communist Party of Greece. But the element that tebo gives Greece's foreign policy is its deeper integration into NATO and the European Union, the deepening of relations with the US, as well as its direct and indirect involvement in their operational geostrategic plans. It is no coincidence that the Hellenic Armed Forces have come to participate today in twenty imperialist missions outside our borders, away from our border defence and sovereign rights areas, precisely those which are now directly threatened by Turkey. The element linking Greece's above-mentioned involvements with the budget under discussion lies within the frequent - thickly mentioned demands both from the US leadership and from NATO administration to the Member States. In other words, to cover the North, which was decided in 2014, the allocation of 2% of GDP to go to defence expenditure annually. Greece already overspends it. It has about 4,000,000 euros. The Minister of Defence, on Friday that passed, in the debate on the plan for the upgrading of the armed systems, proudly stated that Greece is consistent with its US obligations. It would be interesting to tell us his view of NATO's refusal to take a position on Turkey's uncovered aggression towards Greece, NATO's refusal to recognise our maritime borders in the Aegean. Of course, it is true that this money is not all available to NATO. They cover all the needs of the Armed Forces, i.e. wages, catering, clothing, exercise costs, participation in NATO actions of all kinds, etc., and a percentage of around 20% compulsory goes to new arms markets. In why, now, Trump or Stoltenberg are interested in the Greek army's jersey or armour, the answer lies in what you of the New Democracy, SYRIZA or PASOK consciously and guiltyly hide from the Greek people, that the entire Armed Forces can be placed on duty at NATO's disposal. So Trump and Stoltenberg have reason to care about these forces as a whole. The point is that the consequences of your policy on Greece's tie to the twilight alliances may be - and this is something we are abstaining from - disastrous about the possibility of defending the country's sovereign rights. Is there a solution? Of course! It is the solution of the JRC's political proposal, the proposal of the people's needs for people's prosperity, peace and above all for possession by the people of their power and wealth. It is the policy that goes against the imperialist wars and the causes that give birth to them. It is finally the policy of fighting peoples and people's movements in conflict with NATO and the European Union to develop mutually beneficial, peaceful relations in our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u13	The Minister of Education, Mr. Kerameos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the figures that have been quoted so far by the ministers and rapporteurs of the Government have made it clear that the budget that we are debating is different from those of previous years. It is a budget that clearly delineates the different path chosen by the citizens in their vote in the elections of 7 July, a budget with a clear development target that is consistently serving another policy, another ideology, the reduction of the unpleasant and irrational taxes imposed by the previous government and, at the same time, the formulation of the conditions to strengthen the country's economic and investment climate. Ladies and gentlemen, the concern of the government of yesterday was how to share a miserable pie, the narrow wallet of the Greek government, with no sense, without a plan, and instead our government would see to it how this pie will grow, how it will fill more this wallet so that more and more citizens could experience the benefits in their everyday lives. How? With tax relief, to take the real economy forward, with incentives for growth and investment, domestic and external investment, with new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to all the critical areas of politics with steady and decisive steps and turning a page. And education. First of all, I am very pleased to announce that the budget of the Ministry of Education for 2020 is increased by EUR 102,000. The 2019 payment estimates for education are EUR 4,851,000, while the 2020 budget provides for EUR 4,953,000. And to prevent those who will want to resort once again to creative accounting, I stress that comparison with the 2019 budget estimates is also positive, as there the forecasts included the budget of the General Secretariat for Research and Technology of EUR 120,000, which was fully transferred to the Ministry of Development by the Law on the Final State, as well as the budget of the National Research and Technology Network and the National Documentation Centre. So, in any case, whatever elements one can use, those of actual 2019 payments or those of the 2019 budget, there is a significant increase in the funds for education. And the increase in substance is greater. The increase is, in fact, 113,000 euros, if one takes into account the new special reserve established by our Government to serve the costs of certain sensitive sectors, particularly education, health, social welfare, defence and security. In this special reserve, there is an amount relating, in particular, to the needs of the Ministry of Education. And because others are announcing and actually implementing, I stress that the 2020 budget includes the appointments of four and a half thousand permanent teachers, special educational staff, special assistants in primary and secondary special education and education, as well as the appointments of five thousand two hundred and fifty permanent teachers in general education. This is referred to in the major category 21, employee benefits. I would now like to focus, ladies and gentlemen, on the actions we have taken or are planning to review the Ministry of Education's expenditure. And when I say "summary of expenditure", I mean the famous spending review, which in our eyes is very important. So what has happened in these five months when we have the responsibility of the Ministry of Education? Firstly, we are planning the supplies and work of the Ministry's services on an annual basis, in the context of efficient and sound financial management of the budget appropriations of the Ministry for the financial year 2020 in accordance with the case-law of the Court of Auditors. Secondly, rationalisation of costs, procurement of scientific writings for students. A working group has already been set up to rationalise these expenditures. Thirdly, we are planning to intensify and further improve existing actions, such as energy upgrading of buildings and facilities. In addition, we are planning the evaluation to streamline the electricity costs of the Ministry's supervised entities, reduce electricity costs by providing a discount due to the early repayment of PPC's accounts and more efficiently manage the Ministry's budget appropriations for the purpose of making appropriations available to productive activities. For example, consumer spending appropriations worth EUR 4.5 million were considered to be used in more productive actions and these 4.5 million were transferred in the form of the grant to the highest institutions in the country. Fifthly, we have made a significant reduction in daily hospitality expenditure, for the needs of the offices of the political leadership. What else have we achieved? We have supported the universities from the Ministry's own resources - I stress, from own resources - because, while the previous government had announced grants, it had not identified these funds, it had not guaranteed these funds. We have an exceptional grant of almost EUR 22 million, in addition to regular funding. It is worth noting, therefore, that these sums given to universities were not hidden elsewhere, nor did anyone leave them as a gift. These amounts emerged in the context of rational and efficient management of current budget appropriations, which is an exclusive competence of the authorizing minister. I would also like to focus on the fact that we have already introduced objective criteria for funding, for example, higher institutions. In the past, the previous leadership decided to allocate funding to institutions at the appropriate level. We bring law on the introduction of objective and quality criteria, with regard to the state funding of universities. Already, ladies and gentlemen, before the law was passed, the last exceptional grant to universities was made on the basis of objective criteria and not as the Minister wants on the basis of the number of students. So, unlike yesterday's practices, we are now doing another culture that respects and exploits Greek taxpayers' money objectively and with merit. In the current financial year 2019, we paid the largest amount of the last six years from the Ministry's regular budget. By the end of the financial year, more than EUR 590 million is expected, i.e. about 20% more than the years 2015, 2016, 2017. We shall proceed to streamline the register of commitments. In other words, we house our debts inherited from the outgoing government. I'll give you one example: university writings. In 2017, the previous government paid EUR 33 million of the approximately 60 million due, leaving a remnant of approximately EUR 27 million. We also secured EUR 58 million for the repayment of debts in previous years. Our aim is as soon as all obligations are met, respecting the Ministry's suppliers and associates, as any major manager would have done. We will house the Ministry of Education's finances, ladies and gentlemen, step by step, because there is will and knowledge. We proceeded with the payment of the grant to universities to cover educational upkeep costs under the MS 407 scheme for the first time, earlier than any other financial year, covering approximately twice as much expenditure as the previous financial years. Ladies and gentlemen, we've done a lot in a short space and a heavyly drugged field. However, we are still at the beginning. Looking at the future with optimism, we know that it is necessary to jump, not just steps to act our vision. Our country needs, not only from good policies that respect and serve all citizens and take us forward, our country needs a change of attitude. And education is the greatest vehicle for a self-powered, more creative Greece that respects itself and works differently. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. Our goal is an educational system that frees the potential of the Greeks, an educational system that trusts teachers, evaluates them, supports them, trains them, a school that is free and modern and provides genuine supplies to its students. Our aim is a university that is liberated and innovative, self-powered and extroverted, which forms young people together to be able to stand as equal citizens in an environment that changes at a very fast pace. Apparently, there are no magical recipes. Our task is to work hard and collectively to make our vision work and always at the heart of the recipients of this effort, namely, students, that is, students, from wherever they come, whatever their dreams and aspirations are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and students and three attendants of teachers from the 62nd High Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ioannis Tragakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the 2020 state budget, the first budget of the New Democracy Government with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis marks the beginning of a new era for the country and sends the message that the Greek economy is entering a new period. The recovery signs, as recorded by the data announced by ELSTAT, but also by the Bank of Greece, are clear. Processing and tourism are the elements, along with exports, that will run our economy at high speed. At the same time, building activity has been constantly rising since the beginning of the year. The September figures announced are impressive. And it is no accident that the statement by Christine Lagard, the new head of the European Central Bank, who has congratulated Greece, highlighting that he sees the progress and recovery of the economy as it is not by chance and its aversion to the issue of primary surpluses. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget reflects the prospects that today create a number of policies announced in the run-up to the elections, they have been voted in favour of the Greek people and are now being implemented. It reflects an economic policy based on philosophy completely different from that prevailing in the past four years. The main idea of this economic policy is that prosperity will return to the country when domestic and foreign investment is mobilised, which will create new jobs. However, this economic perception and the need to extend a protection net for the vulnerable to the risk of poverty, as well as the need to reduce the tax burden on natural persons. The 2020 budget lays the foundations for addressing the great problem of the Greek economy in recent years, namely the growth and investment public that has been maintaining Greece in the last place between the countries of the European Union, in terms of investment and in terms of unemployment rates. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like your attention. It doesn't sound like the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u17	Please, just quiet down from the Ministerial Chairs. Colleague, continue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u18	The objective of the primary surplus is achieved by reducing the tax burden on natural persons and businesses, while at the same time reducing costs in no policy area. These objectives are achieved: First, by strengthening the development prospects, the tax rates in question yield more revenue. Secondly, the tax base is expanded, mainly through electronic transactions. Thirdly, the individual budgets of the general government are streamlined by removing fictitious expenditure limits and thus ending the creation of unnecessary surpluses. The Public Investment Programme finances the country's development policy through actions contributing to the growth of the private and public capital of the economy and supporting the development process and the country's modernisation on a long-term basis. The 2020 Public Investment Programme, totalling EUR 6750.000, is aimed at implementing a wide range of actions that upgrade public infrastructure, health and education, transport and communications, energy and the environment by modernising public services, prioritising the digital transformation of public administration, while supporting the necessary structures of social cohesion and solidarity. Of the above amount, which represents 3.4% of the country's forecast GDP of EUR 6,750,000, EUR 6 billion is for co-financed projects. A section of EUR 750 million relates to projects which will be financed exclusively from national resources. In other words, a transfer of EUR 250 million from the national part to the co-financed, strengthening the expected development benefits, due to the highest multiplier of the co-financed part, will create a financial benefit of EUR 175 million. Ladies and gentlemen, a serious change in the Public Investment Programme, which has been systematically under way in recent years, is a change in its targeting during the year. For example, instead of targeting the implementation of 40% of the programme in December, as the previous government had targeted, only 16.4% of the programme will be implemented in December 2020, which, of course, helps to implement it much more correctly than this government. Ladies and gentlemen, let me particularly focus on the very important development and social budget interventions for family and infertility: the grant of a EUR 2 billion allowance for every child born as of 1 January 2020, with extremely extensive income criteria covering at least 90% of families, migrating to the low VAT rate of 13% of infants and safety helmets. For natural persons, a reduction in the income tax rate to 9% and an increase in the tax rate for each child. Reduction of full-time insurance contributions by about one basis unit for enterprises. Reduction of legal income tax from 28% to 24% even from 2019 use. Reduction of dividend tax in 2020 from 10% to 5%. For the construction activity, the suspension of VAT on new buildings for three years and the real estate tax. Reimbursement of part of the expenditure on energy renovation. Ladies and gentlemen, the elements of the budget mark the return to normality, while cultivating the ground for the entry of the economy into a new era. The end to the surpluses of the past, the measures and tax reductions of EUR 1,18 billion, and the targets such as increasing investment at a rate of 13.4% and revenue from privatizations of around EUR 2.44 billion will bring growth of 2.8% and reduce the debt as a percentage of GDP by 6.3 points lower. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget strengthens the country's credibility, reduces the cost of borrowing, improves the sustainability of public debt and further strengthens the confidence of international markets. The budget gives rise to optimism, but also realism. It balances growth with social justice, puts an end to the vicious cycle of overtaxation and creates the conditions for strong growth of the economy. For all these reasons, I ask you to vote in favour of the State Budget for 2020. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and two attendants of teachers from the Primary School of Education, Argyri - Lamou. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ioannis Pappas has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, over time, the tabling of the budget and its vote by the National Representation is one of the top parliamentary procedures. If for the Greek state the Constitution is the road map and for the government it is the government program, it is the budget. In a few months' time we have proved that we are fully respecting the Constitution and what the government programme that we put into the crisis of the Greek people last July was anticipated. Based on this government program, the Greek people gave themselves to New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis to transform words into actions and this does with seriousness, consistency and absolute respect to Greek citizens after almost ten years of crisis. The budget we have to vote on is the first budget for the New Democracy Government and the first budget for Mr Mitsotakis. He is the first to talk about growth while reducing taxation. It is a historic opportunity for Greece and the Greek economy to do, as the Aegean poet, Odysseus Elytis, "A jump faster than wear". In a global environment that economies seem unstable and reflect a new recession, Greece shows itself capable of being a bright exception. Improving the economic climate, upgrading the rating houses and the interest rate of 1.5% for the ten-year bond last October show us the way. This is a road to the Greek economy, far from ideological obsessions, calls and strangles, such as the overtaxation of the middle class, the fetish of overcrowding and social automation policies and economic policy. Over the last four years' policies, the budget - in addition - triggers a valuable instrument for economic development, the Public Investment Programme, which in recent years has been moving between deterioration and incorporation. The total amount of the Public Investment Programme amounts to EUR 6.75 billion in the direction of only development, growth, which can turn to the region, growth that can also turn to my county, the Dodecanese. It is money that will be made available to projects that will also be financed from the European Union's EUR 6 billion, but also from national funds of EUR 750 million. We are therefore relaunching the Greek economy, having implemented a forward programme since the first month of the country's governance. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, the government has fully covered the EUR 396 million gap and created a surplus of EUR 436 million, as reflected in the budget. It cannot be seen as accidental that the growth in GDP investment is estimated to reach around 13.1% in 2020. For example, I mention decisions such as the complete lifting, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the capitals control and the further reduction of HNVIA, the improvement of the one hundred twenty-dollar regulation, the suspension of profit tax on real estate sales for three years, the suspension of VAT on building activities for three years, the introduction of an import tax rate for natural persons from 22% to 9% for incomes up to EUR 10,000 without a reduction in tax, the creation of a new progressive tax scale with a lower maximum tax rate and the gradual abolition of the special solidarity levy. It is only some of the reforms made by the Mitsotakis Government to rectify the economy, defend social cohesion and restore injustices, and that is just the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of the Dodecanese Parliament I have to raise a point here in our National Representation and a major issue for our locusts, an issue with which economic and social actors in the Dodecanese are engaged and raised every day. This is no more than the reduced rates of VAT on our islands, Minister. For those with short memory, I would remind you that these rates were abolished in the first half of the year by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The first half of you to forget - ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and ladies and gentlemen of the ANELs, who were transferred to SYRIZA, but also you from Merra25 - that Mr Varoufakis was then the Minister of Finance and was the gentleman who handed it over. Why, recently, you have tabled an amendment calling for the reduced rates to come back and forget that it was your leader who gave them up. So let me say, Mr President, that the Greek people paid far more expensively than the inhabitants of our islands. You received from the government of Antonis Samaras reduced tax rates by 30% in the Dodecanese. And at this moment, I should like to express my thanks to the then Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and his colleagues for listening to this request from all of us. We fought those days hard to keep them down. At the same time, I should also like to thank the people of tourism, the President of the Association of Hoteliers Rhodes, Antonis Kamourakis, who is now mayor, the President of the Association of Hoteliers Kos at the time, Mr Hatzimikali Minas and Vice-President Savylos Konstantinas, and also the Vice-President of the EIC at the time, Mr Constantinidis Kostas, who, in consultation with them, gave their rights and positions to save the tax rates on our islands. So it is time to open this great debate on the restoration of this mistake, mistake made by others, but we as government have a duty to correct. Ladies and gentlemen, those who have visited our beautiful islands have seen why they are the engine of Greek tourism. And those who have not visited you are very happy and loving to come and visit them. Every year our islands break the records in the arrivals and previous records that are broken are ours too. They are residents and entrepreneurs of the Dodecanese who contribute to the Greek economy, to Greek GDP. It is no coincidence that the southern Aegean is in second place at gross value-added after Attica. We are talking about the same people who have to compete on the Turkish coast with the underestimated Turkish lyre, with flexible taxation and with the almost zero wages on their workers. We are talking about the inhabitants of the islands asking for development projects in every way, hospitals, schools, bridges, ports, roads, infrastructure. I would remind you that my island, Rhodes, is in emergency, because it collapsed one of the largest bridges and has cut the island in half, so we are struggling to see how we will improve the situation because the tourist season begins in a few days. The most important thing, however, is that we must motivate the human resources to man age schools, hospitals and public services on our islands in the Dodecanese. We are obliged to correct another mistake that SYRIZA made before leaving power, really leading to abandonment of our islands with the laws that have passed over the past six months. Just think of one thing and you will understand the necessity of what I'm describing. Minister of Education, you too are here to hear it. A kid who goes to school in Astypalea had the honor of meeting his teacher on Thursday who taught him and Friday, but on Monday the professor didn't go to school. He left because he didn't like to live there. This is what you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, did with the changes of legislation, cutting double molecules on the remote islands and on the border and abolishing malus in the tables. So, a child, this and all the children on our island, how do they feel, ladies and gentlemen? That's what I want you to think about. We have a huge responsibility towards these children because tomorrow we have to look into them in the eye. To the inhabitants of our islands, therefore, we owe a great deal of thanks and a minimal return to what they offer in the Greek economy, to what they offer Greece at geopolitical level. The normality that returns to the whole spectrum of society and the economy must reach the Dodecanese. We owe them that in our history, we owe it to the people we serve. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of the first budget of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. A budget that is realistic and reasonable. A budget of regularity that will take us a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u21	Mrs Theanos Fotou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget is neither development nor social, and this is demonstrated by the welfare budget. Because welfare is reduced by 400 million for the first time after four and a half years that have been growing every year. We received it in 2015 from New Democracy and PASOK at 789 million, which is 0.4% of GDP when the European average was 4%, ten times below. That is, we did not exist on the social map in 2015 as Greece. Within four and a half very difficult years we reached 2% of GDP, i.e. 3.5 billion. This year it is reduced for 400 million exclusively for medium-sized strata. That is, first, a reduction of 139 million in the child's allowance. From there save 123 million for the thousand for the newborns. But that's where you're lying. It's not all newborns. Three out of ten newborns won't take it. Do the deeds, Mrs. Michaelidou. You also said that the government obtained universal access to all children in nursery schools. That's what SYRIZA did. One hundred and fifty - five thousand children entered all kinds of nurseries this year. But to get in, we put 100 million in the budget. I do not see a single euro, Mrs Michailidou, in the budget for nurseries. Babysitting is mostly about demographics. For school meals we gave 75 million for two thousand primary school children. I see 44 million missing 30. Will they only get a hundred thousand children in 2020? We had a budget to give all children, six hundred thousand school meals in 2021. It's mostly about demographics, it's mostly against obesity, it's mostly about the family and every mother. You say you give 1000 euros tax exemption for every child. Good, very good. The first child, however, does not give a tax exemption of EUR 1000, but EUR 375. Why? It's very simple why one parent families are more. What a tiny political arithmetic you're making! The policies for the child are a serious matter. It's the country's great investment for the future. This is the investment, not what you imagine. It cannot withstand lies, smuggling, communal Zapian pharmacies, where it is announced that the law on the assumption and adoption of SYRIZA of 2018 and the innovative electronic platform that operates since 2019 and reduces the waiting time to eight to twelve months, was inspired and captured by Ms. Kerameos in 2016. Mercy! Mr. Mitsotakis was Minister in 2014 until 2015 when the parents waited from four to six years. The disability benefits relate to all social strata. Reduction by 173 million. And, unfortunately, there are so many of them. Because, as Mrs Michaelidou may be missing, this is 73 million per month, and in this code there are the benefits of the homogenous, residential support of over-aged and mountainous areas. Do the deeds, Mrs. Michaelidou. Thirdly, you reduce by 53 million the rental allowance that SYRIZA gave for the first time in 2015 and enlarged in 2019 by putting 366 million for six hundred thousand of our fellow citizens. But you have already given EUR 150 million to those who own more than EUR 500,000 from ENPIA. These are the 400m euros that you are cutting out of the middle layers. What are you up to? The only poverty benefit, the CRL that you change its name and you call it a minimum guaranteed income. Weren't you against poverty benefits? You are therefore cutting EUR 400 million from the middle layers to give the only allowance for poverty, EUR 170 million more. The New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, acts as if it landed on the 7th of July in 'Eleftherios Venizelos' and found astonishing that unemployment was the highest in Europe. 16%, listen up! Really? Wasn't the New Democracy that ruled by 2015 and the figure reached 27%? Wasn't Mr. Mitsotakis a minister when he fired the cleaners, school advisors and university employees? Wasn't Mr. Mitsotakis Minister when one out of five of our middle-class fellow citizens moved to the poor layers based on ELSTAT? Read it. Was it not the Mitsotakis Minister until 2015 when 36% of the population were at risk of poverty and social exclusion and 26% of children were in child poverty? Do you know where the numbers are today? Count them. It's before 2008. That is what we have done before the crisis. That is why the beneficiaries of the CRL were reduced from seven hundred thousand in 2017 to fifty thousand in 2019 and the budget from 850 million euro to 680 million euro. Because you're putting the 170 million extra you know. Will you increase poverty? However, the EUR 1 billion said by Mitsotakis did not run it, even though you continue to repeat it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. These days we are experiencing an absurdity here. All Members of the New Democracy explain to us why the budget ends the SYRIZA's 'driving' pay policy in the middle class. You're all saying that. But Mrs Michaelidou yesterday - read the Minutes - assured us that, as the Prime Minister said, no aid policy - I judge it - is not being cut off, but is being extended instead. What's the matter with you? The scotch you were given to repeat or what the State Secretary says? We understand that you are not interested in the social and income inequalities that your budget is increasing as few of the upper layers benefit and many of the middle people lose. Inequality is a natural situation - Mitsotakis said so - and therefore the welfare of the citizens will be provided by the charity of the state rather than by the state and assigning the unaccompanied minors to volunteering and Mrs Iloydakis. But that is not a European rule of law. They are not a European welfare and social solidarity state.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u23	Mrs. Fotio, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u24	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we have seen these days your perception of the dividend. You have excluded three million fellow citizens and no word has been heard from the channels. You separated the disabled under and over the twenty-four years to get the allowance and when the outcry of society reached the prime ministers, Mr. Mitsotakis as a new ruler abolished the separation of twenty-four years. The new bonaparism in the role of social welfare. Is this Greece 2020? That's too bad! I am voting against the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of ENIZELOS and informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, fifty-one students and students and four school attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Sweet Waters. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Happily Lazarides from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, returning to normality from overtaxation on tax evasion, from disinvestment in attracting investment, from recession to growth, from dynamism to dynamism. I could choose a lot of titles to start my speech. The essence is, of course, one: not words and promises, just actions. We will all agree that a budget gives the mark of each government's policy, it is its political and economic identity and seal, it is the new scene in the country's economic life in and beyond our borders, but also in society, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, workers, pensioners, farmers. And our contribution is this. Today we close parentheses, complete the cases, add a positive mark to everyday life. At the same time, it opens a new page for the creative expression of all the productive forces of the place, those who for over ten years have been looking for the opportunity, the opportunity to offer hope and perspective at the place. And it is clear that a budget speech cannot be made vacant. It's always in relation to the previous one, but also to the next one. And I think this year's budget is a budget that unravels the previous government. Apart from the ideological attitude that existed, it also reveals the amateurism of the previous situation - amateurism and turmoil. In this sense it is indeed a shocking difference in what the SYRIZA government said last year and what the government of Mr Mitsotakis is saying this year. Last year we had a reduction in the tax-free, ESS towel, an increase in health contributions to main and supplementary pensions, an imposition of twenty-nine new taxes, mainly indirect taxes, which are also socially more unfair. This year after a period of prolonged crisis, with a fragile banking system, in disinvestment and a significant productive gap, the budget for the first time inspires optimism. This year after the political change of July, we have the first budget of the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis with which a new account of our economic policy is unfolding, a record based on a philosophy quite different from that which has prevailed over the last four years. How about this change? Let me explain it to you to understand. Things are not optimistic this year because we have turned the switch and everything is now hopefully gone. First of all, because in recent years the blood sacrifices of the Greek people have kept the country standing, and that is something that always needs to be recognised. It is also because we know well that our results are a result of hard work, realistic planning and a sound economic policy mix. Ladies and gentlemen, the targeting of the budget is condensed in a proposal: we are achieving the objective of the primary surplus, while reducing the tax burden on natural persons and businesses, without actually reducing expenditure in any policy area. How does that work? Firstly, by strengthening the country's development prospects and the tax relief that brings more revenue. Secondly, the broadening of the tax base mainly through electronic transactions. Thirdly, by rationalising the budgets of the General Government's bodies, by abolishing pragmatic expenditure limits and thus ending the creation of unnecessary surpluses. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget creates the necessary financial space to enable the strong development of our national economy for the coming years. The main idea of this policy is that prosperity will have a stronger foundation when investment, both domestic and foreign, is mobilised, which will create new and well-paid jobs. The budget is structured on an estimate of GDP growth by 2.8%, an estimate slightly more optimistic than the European Commission's last estimate, which provides for an increase of 2.3% for 2020. Why would that optimism tell me? The optimism in our predictions is not due to ideological expectation, it is not wishful thinking. After all, we have proved - and we have proved it within a minimum period of time - that there can be much more to do in this country than we want. Our work so far, hard work seems to be fruitful with the establishment of the state, with the new development law, with the responses that will continue next year, with the support of our financial system, but also with the rescue of PPC and of course the strengthening of digital governance. Our structural change is that we base our vision on practical evidence. Our vision has a safety cocoon and a guarantee contract and this is described by two words: design and effectiveness. That's how we shield our political vision. And it is particularly pleasant that, along with its development orientation, the budget does not overlook the need to extend a protection net for the weakest in the face of the risk of poverty, but also the need to alleviate the tax burden on natural persons. In the section of the social budget including the accounts for the insurance funds, the fight against unemployment, health and welfare, the financial result for 2020 is projected to be a positive amount of EUR 1.8 billion, increased by EUR 178 million compared to 2019. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us take a time leap. Budget 2021: The optimism that begins to rise this year will shine with a budget free, with more and more paid jobs, with a fully stabilised economic system with further tax relief, with dynamic investment, with a more social economic policy. This is because it is now clear that there is a government that operates, designs and implements policies for the benefit of not the few or the “masters”, but of all Greeks and all Greeks. And this is the Government of New Democracy, it is the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, whose budget we are voting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u27	Mr Ioannis Burnus has the floor from SYRIZA, which concludes the seventh cycle of speakers. Here, Mr Burnus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft budget of the Mitsotakis Government, a government that took over the country and the national economy free from the memorials and commissions of the troika, a government which received funds from the SYRIZA, 37 billion reserves, rationalized budgets, positive growth and ultimately an appropriate ground for a fair and effective economic and social policy with immediate benefits for the Greek citizen, who has supported with heavy sacrifices the country's economic recovery for many years. Instead, the government believes in its neoliberal idea of depositing it today with a budget that gives a lot to the few and a few, a budget which the allocation of resources reminds us of budgets that led us to bankruptcy. The government's budget planning does not only tackle income inequalities, but is also increasing them. The degradation of SYRIZA's policy continues, which in conditions of economic suffocation has managed to minimize these inequalities. The middle class that New Democracy has so much used in electoral terms by sharing promises and cultivating hopes, in its affectionate tactics, is not only strengthened, but is even more affected. With horizontal policies, you are once again providing rich tax relief to the economic elite, and on the contrary your generosity seems to be lost in terms of low and medium incomes. The vast majority of employees and pensioners will see no improvement on the substance. The social state is missing. The country needs a modern social state and has worked in this direction and has achieved a great deal. The trend towards a European average in education and health with this budget is completely reversed. As far as I am concerned, sport is concerned, you are bringing in a budget indicative of how you understand its importance: reduced, reduced from last year, while the country's budgetary situation is even better. Perhaps your priorities are other. From your first actions, after all, it was to disguise an agreement between ERT on television rights by speaking of overriding costs and allegedly a gift of money to sports anonymous companies, with the intention of disclosing that a very large proportion of these amounts were going back to the public, whether through direct or indirect taxation. You also concealed the reciprocity of this agreement for the citizen, who was free to enjoy the struggles of all the people's sports, while, at the same time, amateur sport was also strengthened by a certain percentage in the agreement. Of course, your sensitivity to the Greek taxpayer's money seemed retrospectively, when you very recently reduced taxes on the contracts of players of sports limited companies on the pretext of increasing competitiveness in professional sport. So you're giving money to the OEMs and the OEMs - you still didn't tell us how much - without any reward for the people. You're barely pushing him to get help on the private platform of your party sponsor. Government's gentlemen, 2020 is an Olympic year and all the federations that cultivate Olympic sports are in the final straight ahead of their athletes' preparation for Tokyo. This means that their financial requirements will be increased in relation to last year and last year, where despite difficult economic conditions, the SYRIZA government has ensured an annual increase of 10% to facilitate their work. Seeing the reduced transfer costs, I am very afraid that Olympic preparation is being put forward, I doubtless, with unknown results for our athletes. Furthermore, I am not at all optimistic about the benefits to young athletes. Nowadays, a programme of scholarships for young athletes and young athletes has been established and implemented with a high performance of up to twenty-two years. Are you going to carry on? Have you anticipated this in your budget? As far as the Public Investment Programme is concerned, there is also a reduction of EUR 9 million, which is also financed by sports infrastructure. This further reduction, coupled with the undermining of the "PHILOPOS II" programme, jeopardises all the efforts that have been made in recent years to restore the existing infrastructure, which the governments of the past had left in their luck, as well as the creation of new infrastructures throughout the territory. This budget leaves no room for optimism for the development of amateur sport, while jeopardising the work of the SYRIZA Government in this area too. At the same time as New Democracy gives millions of euros, therefore, to anonymous sports companies through the reduction of more than 50% in the taxation of players' contracts, the government does not show the same generosity through the budget drawn up in actions such as the swimming lesson in primary education, the introduction of physical education in prisons, support for young athletes with scholarships and the overall facilitation of development with infrastructure projects. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of Mr Mitsotakis presents a budget mirror of neoliberal dogmatism, which has come to the point of reminding religious fundamentalism as if it had never passed one day since the 2008 global crisis, as if there were never the monastery deficits of Karamanlis - Horsescouf, as if there were never the economic and social collapse in Samara - Venizelos. After all this, you are no longer apprentice magicians. You are apprentices 'Macri' and will sooner or later have his fortune, I hope not too late for the Greek economy and the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that they are attending our meeting from the top Western theatres, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and schoolchildren and four educational attendants from the 3rd Tochiceio Municipal School of Eklis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are now entering the eighth circle of speakers, with the first speaker, Mr Savva Snowides, from New Democracy. Before taking the floor, Mr Snowides will follow Mrs Karasarlidou, Mr Kedicoglou, Mrs Giannakopoulos and Mr Georgiodakis, the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance. Mr. Snowides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here at one of Parliament's top moments to discuss the issue of the budget, which, in fact, reflects policies in figures. It's a numerical illusion of politicians. That's the big one. The major issue is that policies were expressed before the elections, the policies were expressed through the series of laws which passed over the past few months, and that gives the expectation that we will certainly and time-limited progress in this programme, for which the Greek people have given us a mandate. What we see in this budget is the imprint of all the policies that the Greeks were expecting, and we believe that all it does is build the credibility, the credibility of the political system in general - and I address all the wings - a credibility, a word incriminated, which has an interest in all of us, to retrust the world to politics and political staff. This policy of credibility also helps psychology, which accounts for more than 50% of its share in growth, economic prosperity and social cohesion. On the other hand, we also heard thoughts, perhaps reasonable, in detail, whether this amount is less or more. For all this, answers have been given, I won't be used in this part. But we - to God - neither Kyriakos Mitsotakis, nor his Government, nor New Democracy said that we have magic solutions and with a law we will abolish the strict surveillance that they imposed and which is still running in the country. We never said it because there are no magical solutions. I heard something about "training magicians". Let's not get to that. And as I said in my tax position, I am sure that, after years, none of us are going to say that we were not ready to govern. This proves and proves to be a step-by-step thing. I want to ask a deep question. Is something in this budget or throughout the course of the legislative work, which is not in direct relevance and consistent with what we have proposed, with what we have committed ourselves to? Are there any interim crises, where can we say that economic policy, these announcements, which the Minister of Finance has read, have been implemented? Thirteen announcements. All thirteen of us are consistent. So we can say, with certainty, that yes, we believe in increasing private consumption to 1.8%, yes, we believe there will be an increase to 2.8%, yes, we believe, because we saw the early application, 28 how it was 24. Of course, today, if I am not mistaken, Minister, the results of the November development are also coming out. We can see more positive surprises I'm likely to. So we see that we are implementing a programme, which is really a programme of substance, but most importantly it is a programme of credibility. Step by step we were judged - not in elections - in our programme statements and it turned out that we were right. This gives us all the opportunity to believe that what we are saying continues to be credible and, of course, we are not only saying it, the whole world says it, the citizens of Greece, through polls, that they have confidence in this government and are starting to gain confidence in the political system. But it is said by others, much tougher, who put their money on to lend the Greek State at negative interest rates, even if one tells me that there is a time when there are low interest rates today. Since they are low interest rates, why do we have better interest rates than the Italian Republic takes, a strong democracy? Of course, in all of this, we need to see the social dimension and the social dimension is what matters. It is logical, another logic, yes to the benefits of the poor, yes to health issues, to day-care stations, but above all to give people jobs, good jobs, improved jobs. And let us see in this budget, and with all perspectives of the legislative work - what has happened and what will happen - if there is even a Greek, a Greek woman, who will get something less. Everybody gets more than that. Of course, if we were talking about witches and magical solutions, it is certain that we should win, make a 100% reduction in the tax advance. It's easy to say, but thankfully, we don't have a magic Prime Minister, we don't have trained magic ministers, we don't have a space that has learned to lie, to say five times that he's going to abolish capital control and not abolish it. In conclusion, I should like to refer to some of the thoughts and suggestions. The first concerns the following. We all know that there is the public economy and the private economy. I have to talk about the social economy, which, on the average of Europe, represents 6% of GDP and 8% of jobs. So I ask, dear fellow Members, New Democracy agreed in 2016 to amend the law. Three years has something been done about the social economy? Zero. EUR 127 million from the ESRB is urgent. Minister, Mr Minister, it is an opportunity for the social economy, Mr Minister for Agriculture, to move on to the question of 'cooperative' with the law, as well as to give another dimension. The social economy is something that helps Greece. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In conclusion, I will say this: today we have heard that there is the fourth industrial revolution. Greece signed the European Union in October 2018 that it will be one of those who will participate in the distributed universal technologies. In the sense of distributed universality, we mean 'blockchain', we are talking about artificial intelligence, we are talking about the Internet of things. So here comes a Prime Minister and commits itself, a few days ago, to the conference held by the relevant Ministry on Transparency.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u31	Finish, Mr. Snowsides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u32	Yes, Mr. President. I'll be done in a minute. Will you tell me what the "blockchain" has to do with the country's economic development? Investment and digital transformation are perhaps the most effective form of reform and improvement of productivity. That is the big question, that will help the economy, that is what our Ministries are working in the direction of Mr Mitsotakis. For the first time, it sounds like the Prime Minister is talking about technologies, which are here and where we ought to be dynamically in the chains of arrays, so-called 'blockchain'. And that will help our country. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance, even though I know you are always very strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u33	Because of self-government, Mr. Snowides. We shall proceed with my colleague Mrs Karasardou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the 2020 budget, I will, in particular, be placed on the basis of my experiential experience, from the professional craftsmen and trade and as a representative of my prefecture, the Imathia Prefecture, having as a reference the problems and demands of workers, farmers, middle-class and socially and economically vulnerable groups. The 2020 budget could and should be a budget that would mark the country's exit from the memoranda, as it was in 2019. On the contrary, it is characterised by the return to memoranda of reasonable and practical practices, of course, indicating that many of the memorial and anti-grass measures were not a requirement for lenders, but were a requirement of BSE and of course other local interests. As is the increase in the cancellation of the minimum wage by 11% and the abolition of national and sectoral employment contracts which will reintroduce private sector workers to deeper poverty and job insecurity. As for the middle-class that has become the multi-substantiated bride and especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, whose large volume of cigarettes is on the domestic market, and their consumers are medium-sized and popular layers, by removing from all of them the least available, you are actually removing the breaths, the oxygen that these enterprises expected to take, the businesses that managed to stay alive after ten hard-to-meaning years. Remove them by increasing insurance contributions by 20% to 80% of the free trade, by increasing electricity at 15%, by increasing the objective values of the real estate, by removing 400 million from social costs, by abolishing the thirteenth pension, by reducing public investment, by 22% hidden taxation for those who cannot cover the 3 % required by electronic proof, by 20% reduction in the OAED's employment programmes for the unemployed. At the same time, however, you are canceling the advance payment tax payment by 50%, canceling the solidarity levy for incomes up to EUR 20,000, canceling the trade fee, all that was launched by the SYRIZA government. In other words, the sum of your measures shows that you also give 17 euros to the middle-class, but you remove all this from the market, more than EUR 600 million. In addition, you will increase by EUR 563 million the revenues from VAT and excise duty and increase the proportion of indirect taxes paid by the middle-class and low-income sectors, despite your promises of not imposing new taxes. In the same memorial policy, of course, it is your policy for farmers, where the order of the farmers is the largest production class, at least in Imathia. The reduction of the tax rate to 9% for farmers and 10% for cooperatives is of minimal or zero importance, because, anyway, farmers have tax-free income from EUR 8 000 to EUR 9 500 000, unless it is not even EUR 12 000 000 for subsidies. And while SYRIZA had planned to reduce the tax rate to 10% for both cooperative farmers and to hit the black market, you do not, as well, reduce the tax advance to 50%. On the contrary, you are increasing the insurance contributions from EUR 114 to EUR 220, gradually until 2022. You remove them from the thirteenth pension and, of course, the increase in PPC also applies to farmers and also does not reduce the excise duty on oil. Also, in Imathia and Pella, peach producers are still waiting for the decisions of the New Democracy Government on compensation in the form of de minimis for their very great loss of income. For 2018, the government of SYRIZA gave 13.2 million euros and then New Democracy called them crumbs. So today, where this government has a better budgetary capacity and there are repeated and greater income losses, how will it give them? That's the question. That is the topical question that is currently in my prefecture. Of course, contrary to what you promised and what the agricultural world expected from the government, you are conducting private insurance in agricultural production. For the recognition of interbranch organisations, you are reducing the participation of those involved from 30% to 15%, serving the requirements of existing administrations. Also, instead of motivating farmers to register in the cooperatives, you are giving their cooperatives a gift, with the participation of 15% in their administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, because I saw some Members of the New Democracy before being sanitary at the time Mrs Fotio was speaking, I would like to say that the SYRIZA Government had done an excellent job in the welfare sector as well. And that is not what we Syrians say, the European Commission's report confirms this, just now in November 2019. The government, in 2015, received the welfare budget of 789 million, namely 0.4 million of GDP, with a European average of 4% and reached 3.5 billion. I will, however, go beyond that because Mrs Fotio has said enough, and I should like to close by and mention what you are doing to health. Health is the most important social asset. We in 2015 received the ESS in collapse and in the period from 2015 to 2019 we proclaimed and hired three thousand three hundred permanent doctors and so many other assistants, while in 2015 we served only five hundred. More than five thousand were recruited in nursing and other personnel. Another two thousand three hundred and a thousand others with a programme of the OAED concerning the recovery of Brain Drain. We have brought a new model to primary health care, the TMGs, for which we have also ensured funding and sustainability from European resources. The New Democracy Government now, starting only one of the hospital governors, makes an absolutely unavailable choice for people who have as a key element the party identity and dependency of the New Democracy, because its own concern is that it will serve its customer system. We have once again set up, as I said, the ESS, we have strengthened public health, we have secured access to cover for two and a half million uninsured people within very narrow budgetary frameworks, because for us this has been an excellent priority that ensured equality, equality and social justice. You, on the contrary, discuss the assignment of public care fillets to health entrepreneurs and the change in the working relationships of doctors, which will lead to the complete degradation of the ESS. You take us far behind, behind the 1980s when the ESS was built, thus widening the inequalities in health that is the supreme good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u35	MEP George Kotsiras requests permission from his absence abroad from 26 December 2019 until 30 December 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u36	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member, Mr Antonios Mylonakis, also asks for permission from his absence abroad from 29 December 2019 until 4 January 2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u37	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Greek Parliament "The one-way stations of almost two hundred years", fourteen students and students and two teachers of the Xenopoulos School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall proceed with our colleague, Evia MP, Mr Kedicoglou Simeon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. By definition, the state budget is the government's roadmap for the direction it wants to take with economic and social progress. The 2020 budget is the confirmation, but also the consolidation of Greece's change of course that marked the citizens' vote in this year's elections. Even before the elections were completed six months ago, the change of course has been clearly recorded and with impressive results. Now an unblemished witness is the course of Greek bonds and occupants. We have reached the point that the American Trade Minister declares that Greece is borrowing cheaper than the United States. The numbers begin to prosper. However, our priority remains the well-being of the citizens, the well-being of all. There are, already, tangible results from the speedy implementation of our programme commitments even earlier than we had announced in the election. The examples are many. The brave and permanent reduction of HPAI, the reduction of taxation in particular on low incomes, the reduction of insurance contributions, the significant reinforcement of weaker groups, the wide-ranging regulation of debts form a new scene. The Greek economy is experiencing a beneficial shock in the first months of the Mitsotakis government and this process must be strengthened and accelerated, in order to meet our commitments, to meet the needs of the citizens. There is no need for polls to find out that the most important problems for Greeks, apart from the immigration that is not exactly a matter of budgets, are unemployment, taxes, economics, health and education. These are exactly the priorities of our Government. These are the budgetary priorities. We must start with unemployment and taxes, because in a free economy these two are linked. In order to combat unemployment, it is necessary to create jobs, normal work, and not to support and social benefit programmes, which are well suited to alleviating the problem, but which do not solve the problem. Mass job creation is not being ordered, it is being launched. It is being carried out by creating an attractive framework for investment and business. It is carried out when you understand that the worker's right is right, but a condition for the worker's existence is the existence of an employer. By reducing taxes and levies we facilitate recruitment, but we also strengthen the income of employees and pensioners. The state cannot be an employer of everything. The State must be a regulator, monitor and verifier. Unemployment is being fought in the private sector, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises. This is the target of the budget that provides for the best use of the most important financing instrument in the state, of public investment, with the best multiplier through the co-financed programmes. At this point I would like to remind the Minister for Infrastructure that we must finally lift the great injustice to the detriment of my special homeland, Evia, that is to say, its exclusion from the Community's financing of road projects by a decision of the Government of Simitis in 2000. In the government of Samaras we succeeded in removing the exception and the first major project in Evia, the district of Chalkida, joined the NSRF and was ready to be auctioned. But the Tsipras government came along and ended it. Many are injustices against Evia. Finally, the second largest island in Greece must begin to acquire a modern road network. The Chalkida district file is ready and complete and the project is mature to be implemented. In health the budget provides for the greatest possible support under the present conditions and we believe that the possibilities will be more. The enemy of good is the best. It is also happening in education, where we welcome the reforms that have been promoted in higher education, but we need to see what happens with secondary education. We are not honoured to be Greek students of the urgoons in the OECD. I would like to reiterate our rapporteur's call for the good tradition that he wanted them to be voted on across the board. The times are wicked and a message of unanimity and unity of the political forces I think is necessary. Speaking, of course, of threats, let us not forget that our population is in danger of losing more than double what in World War II by 2050, up to five times. Up to two and a half million may be reduced by Greece's population. Demographic is the biggest threat to our society and, of course, we welcome measures to support families and encourage births. I hope, however, that we will soon be able to do more. I'm closing up with a report on the last polls. The most impressive development is not the expansion of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It's not a surprise. The citizens have approved our election programme overwhelmingly, and now they are even more applauding its speedy implementation. The most important development is that hope for the first time surpassed the anger and fear that prevailed in the years of the crisis. The Greeks hope again. Hope reborn in Greece. So I urge you to vote on the budget of hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Kedicoglou, for respect for time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that from the top Western theories we attend our meeting of thirty students and students and two of their educational attendants from the 15th Gymnasium of Peristeri (first section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Constantina Giannakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u40	"Constantina (Nandi) Giannakopoulou", Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u41	Uh, yeah, now here I have to say it as it is written. Otherwise, I like the other one more. We agree. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we are talking about the new 2020 budget and we are not talking about political, social or national gaps, but about specific circumstances that bring us before new challenges and possibilities, but also about new risks. You know, I watched the news of these days. Perhaps this is the first time that, while the budget is being discussed, the lights of time are not on the economy, they have nothing to do with economic issues. The main concern of the citizens is centred elsewhere. In people's minds there are other issues that have arisen. That could be good. First of all, it could be gratifying to see economic progress, by improving the standard of living of the average household, by a new confidence and optimism. I am sorry, Minister, but unfortunately this is not one of them. Investment and growth are yet another expectation, one thing. Unemployment is maintained at a high level. Any marginal reductions in taxes and contributions and any allowances you have complained about and now, in other words, you do what you have been accused of, do not improve the position of those who have accepted the unprecedented tax raid of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. I am referring to the middle-class which, of course, every time and by each government is defined differently. Even the government's positive demographic picture of economic issues is more due to hope than to tangible policies with concrete results. The problem today, more than ever, is to see, in general, the country's progress towards where we want to go, where we want to move. So let us see some basic points. Firstly, we have a country that has been stirring up ten years with the crisis and has still not stabilised a development path which guarantees its strength, improving people's lives. There is no strategic plan, while over-optimism with predictions of 2.8% growth at the same time and when the forecasts of all international organisations are much more restrained and everything can be reversed by the slowdown of the international economy and by the escalation of geopolitical tension. The country is heavy on primary surpluses of 3.5% to 2022 and 2.4% later, with which the previous government has committed the country and the current one has not yet entered the process of negotiation, despite what is said in your election period. It is burdened by the mortgage on all public property in the superstate for almost a century, which no Memorandum Government dared to sign until the SYRIZA - ANEL government appeared. I feel that all this is being overlooked, Minister, and we are simply moving on with the tactics'seeing and doing'. There's steam even falling. Secondly, all modern societies and economies face two very great, basic challenges. Climate change, which threatens modern culture, as we know it, which, of course, gives rise to risks and opportunities, and the 4th Industrial Revolution, which can make the gap between developed and developing countries definitively vultured. These two words, Minister, do not even exist in the draft budget report, let alone as areas of broader policy. Furthermore, our country is facing a huge challenge as a country of first entry of an increased refugee and migration flow and a strong demographic problem. We would expect from the otherwise, it is assumed, that a new government is ready, particularly at this stage that the country is going through, to appear in a radical mood, for a genuinely structural change in the logic itself, the substance of the budget, on these new axes. Instead, the contractual objectives are repeated - we have heard them too many times - for growth, with over-optimistic forecasts for macroeconomics, with a great deal of uncertainty and undeterminedness. Your only concern is how to achieve the excesses by integrating the benefits. Thirdly, we have been faced with dangers with the growing Turkish aggressive policy, with its provocative initiatives, which objectively create concern in the whole of Greek society. Its diplomatic isolation is certainly a significant development. It is a conquest and, of course, it creates pressure on the neighbouring country. However, at the moment, it is absolutely essential and imperative to rejoice with our policy, to see our overall tactics and with a view to promoting initiatives that will demonstrate our determination and that we are not afraid of why we are right on our part. And then, at the same time as the creation of a Greece with a voice, with prestige in the international forums, of a strong development Greece, we have time, ladies and gentlemen, we have the duty to see the defensive armour of the country, the creation of confidence, above all, to the Greeks and the Greeks, that Greece really has nothing to fear and in any event. We have a duty to see the national defence industry, which unfortunately has become an old ECJ. That is our duty. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And that is why it is imperative that we insisted on a change movement and continue to insist on the need to hold a meeting of political leaders. It is a mistake that holding such a meeting is linked to the risk of a situation being dramatically affected. Such meetings should also take place on critical issues, not only for national issues, but for issues that we need to find consensus and understanding, such as education. Fourthly - and I am closing with this - we are a country that is declining in populations over the next few years, as all the research shows, we will reach the eight million people. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we all know very well that more than half a million Greeks, young children, the best minds in our country, have left abroad. All these issues do not seem to concern the government, it does not seem to be working on the budget, while the measures you have announced are fragmentary, it is inadequate. You cannot end up with the issue of sexuality simply with an allowance of 2 000 euros. You can understand that this does not solve the issue. Nor, of course, will you convince a young man who has left to work, to come back with the measure you have announced. These problems require an integrated approach, which is quite simply - and I am sorry to say so - does not exist in your budget. It presupposes a change of conception, absolute sovereignty of sovereignty, Minister, not a war of the days. It needs a model for innovation, for extroversion, for evaluation of everything and everywhere. It requires a justice that will cleanse itself and can show that the weakest can trust her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u43	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u44	I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to be much more optimistic. The budget, however, which has been tabled, unfortunately, does not allow me to do so. We are far from being able to convince ourselves that the future for the country and for the people will really be what they deserve. That is why we are voting against this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u45	The State Secretary for Digital Governance now has the floor, Mr Georgiodas. The following will be followed by the following speakers: Mr Mandakis, Mr Vernardakis, Mr Tsigligir, Mr Andrianos and Mr Triantafyllidis. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I never imagined that it would be necessary in the debate on a budget for the Members of Parliament and the Ministries of Liberation not to come in that apologetic way that we have often seen in such discussions for ministers who have been forced to justify difficult measures which conflict with what a government had previously committed. We are in the unprecedented and very pleasant state of affairs to come today and to analyse a budget that actually comes to implement the announcements of the newly elected government, which, in a clear and detailed way, were referred to in an election and voted in favour of the Greek people. Let the Vice-Presidents understand that. The New Democracy implements everything that it promised the Greek people in an election. This budget incorporates the plan for any reforms we have already made in previous months, but it also shows the roadmap to be followed in whatever others we have promised and must be done. It is therefore a sideline from an anti-population colleague just now when he refers to alleged cancellations of positive measures by the previous government. Anyone who claims that this government annuls any institutionalised, legislative measure in previous years is lying. We are not only coming to implement more than we have promised, more than we have told the Greek people that we can do, but we are not canceling any of the instruments with a positive sign of relief for the Greek citizens, which were usually voted in favour of the previous period by us. We must not confuse the announcements of today's Opposition with institutional measures, because in fact there have been many announcements. For example, there was an announcement of ten thousand recruits of permanent staff in education, in general education, but all that was in the file was the press release, one page of ten series. Nothing else. If this announcement, which is in a bad way made public, are regarded as a piece of legislation of the previous government, then I think they are worthy of the criticism I have had to make at the moment. In relation to the budget, ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that all Greek society is now aware of this, that the most important lever of the development of a country's economy is credibility. It is the credibility of the political staff, the credibility of the government, which is called upon to create the conditions necessary to enable and produce anyone who wants to produce in Greece, whether a professional or an investor, but also to define those measures, which will help our weak fellow citizens, to be able to cope with the difficult conditions they live in. So this government puts as its first priority precisely the creation of that pro-investment climate that is all over the world necessary, so that it can increase a country's wealth. When the wealth of this country grows, there can be through investment, through the new jobs that will be done and that surplus that will enable us to help our weak fellow citizens. Of course, all of this must not be forgotten that it is done within a framework characterised by two things that were the achievement of the previous government. One is the primary surpluses that we are obliged to keep until 2060 - you must not forget that, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition - and the other is the freezing of the property for a hundred years by the GOI. In this context, which is due to your own policy, we - and we will do so - must raise the Greek economy. I have to say two things in relation to the budget for the Ministry of Digital Governance. Tomorrow, the Minister will report in detail. The country's digital transformation is not a technical approach to the whole issue. It is a political approach. It is a one-way political path for all countries. Any country that fails to monitor the requirements of the fourth industrial revolution will not just be able to stay behind and watch the development train move away, but this will unfortunately not be able to restore itself, since the very high speeds at which economic and technological conditions change will not allow recovery. So it's our chance. Now we have to do this. The country's digital transformation is the priority of this government, the priority of Mr.Mitsotakis. Our Ministry, which has indeed brought together many responsibilities in relation to any previous attempt, has now made the legislative instruments and the possibility of financial resources, in order to move on to those interventions in the public administration, which are necessary in order to improve the lives of our fellow citizens, to create a framework that is open to investment, will enable our fellow citizens to earn time, money and transparency in transactions with the public authorities, so that we can attract those investments from abroad and create that image of the country, which will enable us to really monitor the developments that are currently taking place in Europe. I have the honour to serve in this ministry at a very key moment, a ministry for which Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in assessing his judgment, has described as the Minister of State, the relevant Minister of State. Those legislative instruments have been provided that are necessary and that is the money in particular from the NSRF, with which we have been specifically managed. And here I must note that, unfortunately, in the years that have passed, the previous government, outside any other incapacity, has also shown a great shortage of money absorbing the NRP. We cannot today, four years before the end of the programme concerned, have only 25% absorption. Finally, it's not just what you announce, what you're planning. It's what you can perform. The previous government, therefore, and in this area too, the implementation of these very important funds needed for the development of the country has shown the lowest score, 25% absorption. I call on the Members of all the political parties not to stick to the great effort that concerns all Greeks in the overall uprooting of our country. We may all have our differences, the different political approaches, but in a budget that only gives Greek society a positive sign, and at the same time creates the conditions for the country's overall development, I think we should all be present and say 'yes'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u47	Me too, Mr. Georgioda. As always, you have been consistent in time. We shall now proceed in the order given by our colleagues. Mr Pericles Mantas, Member of the Messinia, of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, last July, before the elections, Mr Mitsotakis, Mr New Democracy, and therefore all of us, committed ourselves to the Greek people, to a social contract based on an agreement. The main features of this agreement were, on the one hand, the principles and values of our prolongation, but, on the other hand, the main feature of it was the truth that has been so absent from the political system in recent years. So we agreed with the Greek citizens to make Greece a leading player in the European family and the first day that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis took office throughout the planet to regain our country on its feet. And this result has recently been seen in the diplomatic crisis that we are currently experiencing in Turkey, which the global community is supporting our country, which supports the Greek Government more than ever. We agreed with the Greek citizens to decriminate entrepreneurship and motivate investors and workers to work, create their own opportunities because they will produce wealth for them and their families and not because the tax will take them away. And very quickly we have reduced income tax by four percentage points, reduced dividends by five percentage points, and implemented with great success a regulation for all the indebted entrepreneurs and natural persons with whom we have given them a breath to be able to keep and stand up in this crisis that has experienced over the last ten years. We agreed with the citizens to support the weak, low-paid employees, pensioners, farmers and we have legislated to reduce the import tax rate to 9%, at the same time as the reduction of HPAI by 22%, so that we can make it possible for these people who were in real need and who had been overtaxed all these years, to be able to step back and step again. We agreed to motivate young people to stay in our country, to create and act their dreams here with us and all these young children who have left, to want and to be able to come back. If you look around, a son, a daughter, a nephew, a friend is currently on the outside, he has left in recent years to build his life, make a better life for himself and his family. And recently, the Ministry of Labour announced a very hopeful program of repatriation of the young outside, so that together with the new investment climate that is being shaped we can create the conditions for many of these children to come back. We agreed to make our country safe again for its citizens, with solidarity and humanism for the migration-refugee problem, but with priority and aiming at the needs of the Greeks, without any ideals and cultures. We have put in place a law by which we in fact put rules that were not there. We separated refugees from immigrants and created the conditions so that this problem can be dealt with. We agreed with the citizens to curb the shrinking of our population, to try at least. They're getting fewer and fewer in our homeland, so that more and more can be conserved. This mathematics will lead us to a dead end. We have therefore introduced a 2,000 euro allowance for every child born since the first of the year. And there must be self-government here too. I already read that some municipality started. Self-government should also enter and support this measure with extra money because - badly lies - these EUR 2 000 is not an attractive amount. It's a help, but it's not the point. We agreed with the citizens that universities should be open and that students, the academic community, can enter the universities and take advantage of exactly what universities in our country can give to Greek society. We have put in place a law, so that we can intervene in the essence of the free movement of ideas of our educational institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from a very special and unique prefecture, the Messinia Prefecture. In the Messinia Prefecture, the pillars of my region are two: tourism and the primary sector. And with regard to tourism, it is said that in recent years huge investments have been made, to which they have placed Messinia on the global tourism map. The State should follow the establishment and development of the respective infrastructures. We have the Kalamata airport, which is the fastest growing airport at the moment in Europe and is linked to thirty international destinations. Certainly, it needs a huge help in upgrading equipment, upgrading building infrastructure, developing parking space. It should be included in the plans of the new government for 2020. We also need to complete the roads. It is not possible to come from Kalamata to Corinth in an hour and ten minutes and to need from Kalamata to go to Koroni or Pylos at a corresponding time. Finally, the Kalamata, Pylos, Methoni and Tsakona road, good Water must be completed and must be launched by our Government and within the framework of the financial space to be supported by the relevant ministries. The same must be done with the primary sector. Olive oil, our basic product, is under terrible pressure. Last year, because of poor quality, the Messiah lost about 100m euros. This year, because of low price, he will lose another 100 million euros. This money is money missing from a local economy. They're missing from one pavilion to the biggest operation. They are missing from producers, from farmers who are trying to survive in this difficult situation. We should all, together, producers, traders, printers, state, Ministry, MPs, self-government, sit down and find a way to secure this income in Messinia, which is really very strong and very important. So, ladies and gentlemen, if all we have done, what we are doing, what we are planning to do with the budget is enough to turn our country into a normality, but also to inspire the sense of security of citizens, the sense of security for education, for the economy, for health, for the daily life, the answer is that they are a very important and a great step to re-establish Greece of innovation, production, creation and prosperity and, ultimately, we can all rebuild Greece that we dream of.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u49	Mr Christoforos Vernardakis, Member of the Athens Parliament of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. The 2020 budget is characterised by two specific elements. The first element is that, although there are no suffocating restrictions on budgetary and general economic policy, it is basically anti-developmental, i.e. it lacks an expansionist spirit in the areas of growth multipliers. It is a high-risk budget because it reduces margins, for example, in allocation appropriations. It therefore increases its chances of derailing. It strengthens economic activities such as tourism, building and certain services, but in no case can they be considered as a motor in the economy, especially today when the development framework should be serious about the fourth industrial revolution. The second element is the imprinting of neoliberal obsessions. It is reflected in this recruitment freeze in critical areas of health and education - I will return to it - the reduction of expenditure on social policies, austerity and the occupation of public structures. Basically, we have a framework, a peculiar new Memorandum of Understanding with a coordinated attack on what it means as a public space for the benefit of private interests. These are, in particular, the areas of education for which I shall refer a little more detail. Despite the memorial asphyxiation since 2015, a patient is recorded, although continuous, and an increase in public funding for education and research. Since July 2019, after the change of government, we have another, first and foremost political framework. It is well known that the suspension of the thirty-seven departments in universities, the abolition of the two-year programmes of the universities for the graduates of the ESDP, the annulment of the establishment of a School of Law in Patras, the cancellation or postponement - all by question, we do not understand exactly what is going on - of the ten thousand five hundred permanent appointments in general education. This political outline for the area of education is now being attempted to obtain a numerical, quantitative and economic dimension with the budget that we have before us. Cash total for education is EUR 64 million less than that of 2019, although the Memorandum works do not exist. The largest difference lies in the Public Investment Programme, i.e. investment in education. The difference is of enormous importance because it records intentions, but intentions that have a clear social, class and anti-development mark. If the Public Investment Programme is removed and the annual budget for 2020 is calculated, in relation to that for 2019, it appears to be increased, in fact, by 2.36%. The Minister responsible was also here a moment ago and spoke about 102 million euros. If we look at it a little more carefully, though, on the one hand, the vast majority of the difference comes from the compulsory wage increases, in fact, given that 30% of public sector employees are working in the field of education and, on the other, that 2.36% is completely anemic if compared to the average increase in expenditure for the three years 2017-2019, which was 4.93% higher than that in 2019, which reached 6.17%. In particular, in all the categories of expenditure, apart from the fixed markets where there is a difference in the current budget of EUR 153 000, the 2020 ordinary budget is less than 2019, in the markets for goods and services, by EUR 14 million in transfers, by about EUR 1.5 million in allocation appropriations and by various smaller amounts in social benefits. What is of particular importance and gravity is the reduction of transfer costs, which reflect operating costs and grants and the reduction of these costs adversely affect the operational level of education. A more detailed look, in other words, shows that the increase of EUR 102 million in the 2020 budget for education is mainly at the expense of transfer costs, which of course have collapsed from almost EUR 872 million in 2011. In relation to 2019, they are showing a fall of around EUR 118 million. In addition, the 2020 regular budget is also lower in the area of research than in 2019. The expenditure appropriations of the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology, which are known to have gone to the Ministry of Development, are reduced by approximately EUR 2.5 million. If the increased costs included in the expenditure forecast for the observatory and the National Atomic Energy Commission are taken into account, the reduction is about EUR 5 million. The lack of a clear commitment to the draft budget for the implementation of rule one on the departures and recruitment of the public. There is no provision for recruitment and no Ministry. This means that any recruitment will be the subject of political decisions and by reopening the process already under way. It is precisely here that the reintroduction and perpetuation of customer relations and political choices, which must obviously be placed in the microscope of their purposes. The annulment of the ten thousand five hundred permanent appointments in the general proceedings therefore appears to be in direct consolidation. But that's not all. In addition, there is no provision in the rapporteur's report for the appropriations of four and a half thousand appointments in special education, but reference is made to the new special reserve through which, if necessary, appropriations for appointments can be found. In contrast, of course, to remind us that the recruitment of alternates reach thirty-seven thousand this year. To sum up, especially in the field of education, we must see that the budget despises the social needs of the people's classes and is dissuasive - if not hostile - in public-sector policies in education, it does not take advantage of the opportunities to exploit and develop the financial area, which were conquered by the SYRIZA government. On the contrary, the budget seems to be moving towards an appeal to the government's trace of the previous period, which, if one judges one of policies in all areas of government work, is a central priority of the government. Technically and at the level of documentation it is preferable that political choices should appear vague and general, without commitments and specific appropriations. And, of course, it comes up with a more general policy with multi-speed institutions, a redefinition of professional rights, and above all - and this is the most important one - limiting the social mobility and extending the blockade of access to the cultural asset. I should also like to make an assessment, because this last one I think is the most important one to deal with in the coming months: this policy in the field of education will lead to a social explosion in the next few months, because it will, and already, affect the core of the social contracts of the post-war and post-government period. This will not be a sudden event, nor a surprise. It will be a natural result of the policy pursued in the field of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u51	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of twenty-six students and schoolchildren and two of their educational attendants from the 15th Gymnasium of Peristeri (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall now proceed with Mr Spyridon Tsiligiris, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the first budget of the Government of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis serves specific objectives, so that the country returns to its position through the strengthening of the Greek economy, always taking into account the ideological and political framework of the New Democracy. By remaining faithful to its electoral and programme commitments, the government, with this budget, gives a clear signal to the citizens. The message is that class policies are a past. The policies designed and implemented are now policies aimed at and benefiting all Greeks, without punishing the middle-class, without being unfair to those who really need it, that is, our weak fellow citizens, and without targeting entrepreneurship. With optimism, but always with realism, the aim is to make the economy stronger and more competitive in an environment of enhanced supervision by the European Union and an uncertain global economic environment, which under no circumstances should be overlooked. With policies that integrate support initiatives both from supply and from demand into the economy, with policies that strike a balance between economic efficiency and social justice, but above all with policies that are geared to assisting the development process, our economy will come back dynamically after the multiannual crisis it has faced. The 2020 budget is the first aim of dealing with the growth and investment gap that Greece has maintained in recent years, consistently in the last place between the countries of the European Union in terms of investment and in the first place in terms of the unemployment rate. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis with this budget seeks to overthrow the situation that has taken place through the dynamic growth of investment in the Greek economy. The medium-term objective of the new policy of targeting is investment, as a percentage of GDP, in gradually catching the levels of the pre-crisis period, close to 20%, in other words close to the averages of the European Union. It is a central concept of the government's economic policy that prosperity will return to the country when the investments that will create new jobs are mobilised. That is why it is imperative to quickly improve the business climate in all the key criteria of the international competitiveness indicators, such as the indicator for business convenience, but also the indicator of global competitiveness and to take direct initiatives that will make Greece more friendly in terms of business. The 2020 budget provides for a significant increase in the growth rate from 1.5% observed in the first half of 2019 to 2.8%. This is mainly the result of increased investment. Both the new development law and the tax bill, as well as the reforms implemented on multiple fronts, aim precisely at this. The government is always committed to completing structural reforms, which will further improve the economic climate and increase investors' confidence in our country. The economic perception of the present government in no way overlooks the need to protect our weakest fellow citizens and the need to reduce the tax burden on natural persons and businesses. That is why with the budget our Government is launching the lifting of the surplus policy and is seeking as close as possible to achieving the surplus target in order to avoid unexplained and inexplainable excesses observed between 2016 and 2018. It was an overrun that took away money from society and from the market. Particular attention is needed to stop the economic bleeding of Greece for the sake of allowances and dividends. Failures to provide dividends not only to the objective beneficiaries but also to the recipients who wished to create a new category of unemployed, the option of the unemployed, seriously affecting the job offer. Thus, we are seeing a phenomenon, particularly in my prefecture, in Xanthi, reduced labour supply for seasonal work in the agricultural sector, in the processing sector, in focusing on other sectors, since the subsidy policy was more beneficial than seasonal work. Overcrowding, over-taxation and benefits cannot be a basic government policy. This is why the present Government puts an end to the overtaxation of natural and legal persons and takes measures to widen the tax base by strengthening electronic transactions and adjusting the objective values on the basis of the previous values. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be understood that only by attracting investment, both our country and our citizens will be supported. Investment growth will strengthen the State as a whole, improve the health, education and defence sectors, providing more quality services to all citizens and an increased sense of security. This policy is implemented by the present government. The aim of the country's full commitment to the European and world stage imposes economic and political shocks and a national plan. The budget shows that the country's economy has positive dynamics and all prospects for improvement, stabilisation and capitalisation. As long as the Greek economy progresses with constant pedalism, taking into account the lessons of the long-term adventure it has faced. Only in this way will we be able to shape the new, modern, sustainable, domestically holistic model, which will push the economy and society into a virtuous cycle of prosperity for all citizens in a strong and internationally decent Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Ioannis Giokas is not speaking because he represents his party at the intergroup meeting under Mr Petsa. He'll talk later. Mr Alexandros Triantafylides is called in Stepma. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Andrianos will speak and the eighth cycle will be closed with Mr. Georgios Kotsira, Member of the New Democracy, and Mr. Dimitris Vitsa from SYRIZA Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already counted six months of the New Democracy government's mandate by voting for 40% of Greek citizens and an absolute one-party majority of fifty-eight seats. Because Greek history does not start in January 2015, and New Democracy is not "freshy" as it desperately wants to convince us, I am addressing these citizens who joined the trend, "Go SYRIZA, leave Tsipras", to crucify five stars of words and arguments and not to crucify each other. Reason for unity of the necessary introductory statement. First of all, if the homeland and the sense of patriotic responsibility which will find us all on sluggish national fronts, national consensus, palliative unity and the integrity of the Armed Forces to the highest degree of vigilance and vigilance. Anyone who dares to challenge our national sovereign rights on land, air and sea will regret it. Send a message from the Step of the Greek Parliament to the men and women of the Armed Forces: "We are noble near you. We're right next to you. For her country and her defence, we are all one." However, the citizens who are listening to you - they hear the generals of the government triumph - wonder and wonder why you celebrate. Because you have broken the social dividend from 780 million in 2018 to 175 million euros this year? And from three million seven hundred thousand beneficiaries in 2018 to just two hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries this year? Is that why you triumph? Because you cut the thirteenth pension for retired people, you're the ones who told them you'd bring the CSCE back? Because you are reducing the social budget, are you reducing the housing allowance for the most deprived, the unemployed, the homeless, the fired, even for the disabled? So much analgesia? When Tsipras announced the creation of the trusted account, the guarantee money of 5 billion against the lenders, in order to reduce, respectively, from 3.5% to 2% by 2022, the primary surplus and save the 2 billion to fall into the economy and not to deprive the society of it, then you and your beggars, your strong television platforms, the empire of medium-sized interchange, which, without it, could not stand in power nor day after day, then you were fighting. What have we had these six months? What was Mr. Mitsotakis' election front? Invasion, division in Macedonian. Cordial poverty of the middle class. Analgesia, cynicism toward young people. Instead of new jobs - you remember the videos, Mr Mitsotakis, new jobs - only in October you left a hundred and six thousand new jobs. Diagnostic and Father made the emblematic faces of the fresh Mitsotian air like air loans. Do you remember them? Your MPs in Thessaloniki had election appointments in Metro, but Mitsotakis was licensed to announce that the Metro of Thessaloniki would be ready in 2025. This is how they provided the ruffles to OSTH with the re-establishment of the liberal business regime as a breeder of the local party client. Remoula, scandals, pimps and, on the other hand, poor of us Thessalonians to wait at the stops for Mitsotakis to bring us buses. An exemplary model of what you mean by investment. Profit will be distributed to the shareholders and losses will be paid by the Greek State, i.e. the well-known sucklers, all of us of Greek citizens who will pay double the tax and tax. Thessaloniki now knows well, it has realised that only with Tsipras Prime Minister and SYRIZA in the government can see its metro running and modernise. As always, Gallaghers, with their bank accounts released and the immunity of bankers, are being placed in court. After all, we also have the loans of 500 million to eradicate. But tight in the middle class and in the professionals by increasing the price of electricity, increasing insurance contributions for 85% of insured persons. Where is the further reduction of VAT on the focus from 13% to 11% that you promised? In June 2019, when VAT in the focus of SYRIZA was already leaving 24% to go to 13%, Mr. Mitsotakis with his interview on "KRIZA TV" said for word: "I did not say that in 2020 I will decrease in VAT. I will reduce VAT only on the focus." Do you remember that, Mr. Mitsotakis? Because restaurants and caterers remember it very well. They ask traders, professionals, crafters, the people of the market and the real economy, those who have believed false words, where is the abolition of the twenty-nine taxes of SYRIZA, Mr Mitsotakis, where is the abolition of the advance payment of the tax, where is the abolition of the solidarity levy? Any shame, no shame? Only settling ruffles for blue children in the feminine state, bishops, hates and remorse in the state-owned blue donor economy. We are watching the remake of the same project, the one that led us to bankruptcy and the memos. At least naive anyone who expects the repetition of the same course of work to be able to result in different results. And I'm coming to the Macedonian now. From the "supply, sell" against all of us, the extrajudicial to the most recent betrayal of the pacacedonians, with whom you were going with some bracelets at the rallys, molotovs, threats and bullets in the windows of the SYRIZA MPs' offices, you have now turned it over to the kalmatian. 'All Members are patriots'. Yeah, since when? Aren't they betrayed, sold, Mr. Nikos Dendias, as your fellow Members of the New Democracy in the previous House told us? "The New Democracy has turned its back on patriocardialism and Balkan provincialism." Yes, since when, Mr. Teddy? Since Mr. Mitsotakis has been saying this step by step, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, "Look at how you're going to go up to ID" urging virtually the extremist elements to do the right thing? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We will fully respect it and honour it: 'Full allocation Prespa Agreement is crucial', that is to say, the full implementation of the Prespecies Agreement is crucial and vital. Who said it, who wrote it, who signed it? Who sent what you just heard? Your Deputy Minister Miltiadis Varvitsiotis in an official letter to Mr Osmani, his North-Macedonian counterpart, as he was named after him. Not only will they implement it completely, but they will also honour it. Who? The destiny and treachery of the Ambassadors? In the Minutes, I put the English text of the letter'sincerely yours', 'truly yours, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And this one hundred and fifty-eight photocopies to share to get the New Democracy MPs to share in the villages where they said "did you betray, you sold" to tell them to "did you betray, you sold" that they would implement the policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u55	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u56	I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have no idea what you are going to vote on. By voting in favour of the budget, therefore by giving a vote of confidence in the entire government policy, you also have a vote of confidence in the main foreign policy positions of the Mitsotakis Government. One of the main positions of foreign policy, as analysed by a Step of Parliament by the responsible Minister of Foreign Affairs Nikolaos Treasury, is the full implementation of the Prespecies Agreement. These positions, like the positions of any other Minister of Government, ladies and gentlemen, are in a position to explain the law on the budget for 2020. Can I make it a coin to understand it? By voting for the budget and by giving a vote of confidence in the entire government policy being pursued, you are voting for the Ambassadors' Agreement even in a second year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u57	And that's it, Mr. Triantafylides. Colleagues know what they're voting for.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u58	The agreement reached by the Government by the oral Nicholas Nodes makes it a key priority for its policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Triantafylides, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u60	Please, one word, one phrase. What's that axis? The full implementation of the Prespecies Agreement. Thank you and welcome you to the front of defending national interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u61	Turn off the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Simopoulos, sit down. I saw your hand. Mr Andrianos has just spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, on personal occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u66	Do you understand what I told you? Your colleague has been consulted. Sit down and then I'll give you the floor on staff. It is good to read the Rules of Procedure of the House. Mr. Andrianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to follow the reluctance of the fellow Member who has really used a splittling speech. Of course, I would just remind you of this: he said that by law of SYRIZA the tax on focus was reduced from 24% to 13%. Under SYRIZA's law, Mr. and Mr. SYRIZA's colleagues, this tax from 13% went to 24%. To remind the Greek people what exactly happened. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you came a few days before the July elections to reduce him. This is a mockery, ladies and gentlemen. So these days we are discussing the first budget of the New Democracy government with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. And we know very well what we are voting on when we vote on this budget, Mr President. Because this budget underlines in the most inconsistent way the decisive change of course that has taken place since the national elections in July. A budget which proves in the most undeniable way that everything that we have committed in the run-up to elections is being acted on. In the face of Greeks and Greeks, therefore, we committed ourselves to a substantial reduction in the burden of taxes and contributions to households and businesses, to boost growth mainly through the encouragement of new investments to create new real and well-paid jobs. We have therefore promised to restore normality in the country, guaranteeing the positive prospects they require, deserve and deserve. Not only are we fully honouring the commitments we have made, but we are moving even faster towards their implementation, as demonstrated by the reduction in the ENPIA, and also, as announced, the reduction in the contribution of solidarity by 50% in 2020, which will be abolished by the end of the four-year period. This is because the change of the July page with the citizens' self-powered mandate, the abandonment of the deadlocked policy of overtaxation and the bloody surpluses, the conscious targeting of the middle class, the hostage of the benefits and the suppression of the creative forces of the Greeks have yielded very positive results, which have been reflected in the economic climate, the loan interest rates of the country, the assessments of the Greek economy and the assessments of its prospects by partners, lenders, investors and rating houses. It is this radical change of policy that allowed the government not only to cover the budget gap of EUR 396 million that we inherited from the SYRIZA, but also to create room for speeding up positive relief and development measures in 2019. So this counter-dialogue policy allows us, today, to draw up a budget at the same time optimistic and realistic, which combines the two major objectives of stimulus to growth and social justice, which reduces the burden of taxation, while at the same time increasing the real costs in the critical areas of health, education, social security and national defence. I would remind you that in the past few days we have voted for the tax bill which, among other things, reduces the tax rate from 22% to 9% by EUR 10,000, reduces taxation for legal persons, provides for favourable tax rates for agricultural cooperatives, reduces VAT on medicines and infants, relieves families with a disability rate of over 80%, but also support for 700 euros for our fellow citizens who need, such as all families with disabilities and, indeed, it is very positive that this is given without an age limit. Here I would also like to stress the decisive treatment of the under-implementation of the Public Investment Programme that was effectively abandoned in its fate by the previous government and will enable the dynamics to be promoted in the implementation of innovation projects for the whole of Greece, as well as the measures necessary to strengthen agricultural production and the income of farmers through actions to reduce production costs and a national strategy for the effective promotion, certification and exploitation of the high quality of our products. For example, in olive oil, in one of our national products, at a price of EUR 2 per kilo, there is a risk of abandoning olive cultivation because producers are not even spending these prices, they cannot live in their families, and, of course, this fact has economic repercussions throughout the chain of local economies. Ladies and gentlemen, farmers, free professionals, employees, small and medium-sized businessmen are asking for the breath to allow them to make safe plans for their future and families again. This year's budget gives such breath and the more the results of the new economic policy are becoming more and more visible, the more these breaths will become more and deeper. With this budget, with its profound changes in the state and its relationship with the citizen, with the introduction of quality and efficiency in every aspect of public life, we open up the new roads worthy of our country, the paths of creation and the advancement for the Greeks and Greeks affected by the crisis, the paths of return for the hundreds of thousands of young people who have left the country in the last decade, the roads that lead to the future that is appropriate to Greece. Development, employment, social cohesion. Day after day we do everything we committed to our compatriots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u68	What do you want, Mr. Simopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u69	SYRIZA's colleague, Mr President, has referred very carefully to Members of the House, Mr President. I'm the only one at the Thessaloniki MP's Hall.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u70	Stop here, Mr. Simopoulos. I read paragraph 1 of Article 68 to you what a personal subject means: 'Personal matter is considered to be the reproach that contains abusive manifestation individually and personally against a Member'. On the basis of the broad interpretation you have given, I think it was worse to take note of what you will be voting on, and all the New Democracy colleagues should consider it to be a personal matter and to interrupt the sitting and now discuss personal matters by the afternoon. After all, I covered you with the limit, so my intervention at the time Mr Triantafylides spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u71	Can't I have a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u72	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u73	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u74	No, so we don't open this conversation. Next speech you're going to make...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u75	No MEP from Thessaloniki or New Democracy behaves like this. We may not call it, but we are not talking about MPs in a particular region.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Simopoulos, I'm not talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u77	Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u78	I'm old, I know these things. That's a cut-off.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u79	They'll tell us about the subway...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u80	Good, when you make a next speech, you can answer your colleague politically in any way you want. I do not allow them in the budget such a holiday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u81	That's unfair.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u82	Good, Mr. Simopoulos. So, as I said, with the last two colleagues, Mr Kotsira Georgios Kotsira Georgios, Member of the New Democracy, is closing the eighth cycle with SYRIZA Vice-President and MEP Mr Dimitrios Vitsa. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Undoubtedly, the state budget is a very serious parliamentary procedure which traditionally marks the core and targeting of the policy of the individual government. The Government of New Democracy and the Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis personally begin and apply immediately the commitments they made to the Greek people in an election, thus implementing the "truth Agreement" and strengthening the credibility of political life, which had been so short in recent years. The 2020 budget reflects our policy, the policy aimed at rational development, together with strengthening real social cohesion. This targeting takes place in a period of complex geographical strategies, in a globalised environment which is highly evolving and changing, with Brexit before the gates, neighbouring Turkey in another policy of ignoring the rules of International Law and our country in a key role in Southeast Europe. Our homeland finds a step in the right direction and the stability of the country's economy is a factor of security for society and citizens. The 2020 budget has key objectives for the dynamic growth of the Greek economy, for increased employment, for respect for budgetary objectives and for promoting social cohesion. From this dynamic basis, we have been looking forward to and effectively addressing the great problem that has shaken the Greek economy and the Greek society in recent years. We are looking forward to getting the country out of the last positions it has in the European Union in the field of investment and to reducing unemployment immediately and substantially. This was also the Greek people's request when he voted for the New Democracy and made Mr Mitsotakis the Prime Minister. And already these six months, we make every election commitment that we made to Greek society every day. The overrun of SYRIZA in 2016-2018, which reached 11.4 billion euros, was money accumulated in the public sector, deducting this amount from the market, citizens and the real economy. This overrun has contributed to the slowing down of growth and has resulted in a restrictive policy far greater than agreed with lenders. The 2020 budget puts an end to this policy. We are trying to give room to the real economy, to give space to the Greek businesses, to raise the pie and to be able with a programme of equilibrium between growth and social cohesion to give the Greek society what it has tried to achieve in recent years, but unfortunately with the bleeding that it has accepted in its productive stages has been impossible to complete. With the 2020 budget, a significant increase will be achieved in the growth rate of the Greek economy, while reducing unemployment that is so stifling Greek society and especially younger children. And because we have heard from the Opposition that the figures mentioned in the budget are other than those for which they have made another provision or adopted some other forecasts, as Mr Stagiras said yesterday, even in this version of the situation in 2020 in the Greek economy will be much better than the one that was in 2019 and obviously much better than the one that has been in the last four years, where there has been a accumulation of tax obligations and burdens for the Greek citizen who were inappropriate to a great extent, because it was the product of a very bad negotiation that began in 2015. A key pillar of our economic policy is the tax relief that has already been applied gradually since summer with the reduction of HNVIA by 22% mid-weight, the reduction of the VAT rate in a number of species and the successful removal of capital controls that have shaken the Greek economy and frozen the capital of Greek citizens and businesses for about four years. Obviously there are other actions that help to facilitate this policy and create space in the Greek economy so that it can breathe. It is also of enormous importance and value to our country that the promotion of social cohesion and prosperity be promoted. And since I am elected in an area of West Attica which is a multitude of contributions to national GDP, it is traditionally faced with many problems of balance between development, heavy industrial infrastructure, unemployment and environmental burdens, and we must recognise that New Democracy is the force that can balance and rationalise all these often among them opposing interests. The regions of Western Attica are areas with many possibilities with reference to history, culture, religious tradition. Tourism development and infrastructure strengthening must be a priority, especially after the major disasters which hit Kinetta, Mandra, Nea Peramo, and especially at a time when the wider region has undertaken a national task, since Elefsina in 2021 will be Europe's cultural capital. The government's development and social interventions have a strong reference to society, and I am particularly pleased to see that there is at last a policy to encourage family policy. The grant of a 2,000 euro allowance to each child born on 1 January 2020, the transition to the low rate of VAT to 13% for infantry species, as well as the increase in the tax-free limit for each child are sectors which show that they are the main part of the New Democracy and the new Government's policy of reporting and protecting the family, which has been affected both in recent years. And when we are in front of a national issue, such as the reduction of births and, unfortunately, the increase in deaths, and we see that our country is small, this policy must be a national objective beyond every party interest. We are again valued in real estate after many years of recession in building activity and we are re-activating branches that have disappeared from the market in recent years. We are creating a modern state of simple and effective civil service, because growth without a modern state with reduced bureaucracy cannot be achieved. We are creating the conditions for stability for those who have left and it is very positive that there are initiatives by the Ministry of Labour to strengthen the ability of the people, our fellow citizens who have left to return. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that our country's economic policy must, in the coming years, serve, among other things, the real pillars of Greek society and economy in recent years, the generation of the crisis, our fellow citizens who have remained in the country and have fought in adverse conditions, with development policies, incentives, family policy. Family support policy is a national priority objective. The policy to support Greek scientists who remained in the country during the crisis period and to this end supported the particularly problematic Greek economy is a national obligation. Support for professionals and enterprises that have endured and kept the state funds alive in the midst of a recession and overtaxation is a national obligation. Support for those who have made a family in the crisis is a sign of national gratitude for our country, especially in the last ten years. We are therefore interested in a society that is developing and is not doomed to poverty and misery management. The budget we are tabling puts an end to the vicious cycle of overtaxation and encourages the citizen to develop his activity freely. It marks the return of our country to the future with a political liberal, social and folk. And this policy is best served by the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis. For these reasons, I urge you, too, to vote in favour of the budget under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that they are attending our meeting from the upper Western theory of sixty students and students and two of their educational attendants from the 3rd General High School Argos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And now I call on the Step, as I said, my colleague from SYRIZA, Mr. Dimitrio Vitsa. Here you go, Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, during the memorial period all the budgets passed by the Greek Parliament, as well as by 2018, had a common basis, namely the agreements, which the Greek governments had signed with the Troika. I hope we agree on that. However, they also had two very substantial differences. The first difference is that SYRIZA's budgets insisted on social welfare, so that the lower social strata standing, even with one-off measures and the creation of a strong protection framework. However, this framework also obliges the memorial governments, measures them and evaluates them. And whatever you cut out of this framework will have a political impact on society itself. The second difference is that the SYRIZA government was undeniably the government that took the country out of the memorial period. Now I say 'unquestionably', and I think that maybe in a couple of years the New Democracy has told us that she has taken the country out of the memos. Everything is possible with what we hear. In other words, the SYRIZA government has succeeded where the New Democracy, the PASOK and the Papademos government failed. We had three goals. The first goal was to get out of the memorials with society upright, which we have achieved. I remember that at the end of 2013, at the beginning of 2014, at the time, the Minister of Labour said that we have succeeded, that is, the Samara Government, in other words, reducing the rate of growth of unemployment. We went to the real decline in unemployment by 10 percentage points. The second goal was to put the economy on the rise. We had ten consecutive quarters where the economic indicators were and are upward. On the basis of official figures, let's not forget that in the second quarter of 2019 growth reached 2.8% compared to that of 2018, that is, in that quarter we caught what we hope or hope to catch in 2020. The third objective was to shield the country from subsequent crises. We have built a reserve of 37 billion, but we have also launched a new economic model based on the real needs. We held thirteen regional meetings involving the institutions and social bodies, but also based on the working forces. In the first months of 2019 we managed to adopt measures that were previously one-off benefits. Part of collective thirteenth pension, collective agreements, minimum wage. Really, what now? Based on your election promises, as far as the minimum wage is concerned, only in full 2023 may the minimum wage be 750 euros. If it's all right. Based on our own, not announcements, but also applications, this would happen in the beginning of 2021 and you have not yet placed yourself in what you are going to do. In short, these were our differences in budgetary terms and economic perception. Because in total, of course, our differences are so distinct and great, they are the ones that define the red line between maintenance and progress, which, at political level today, is the right-wing difference on the one hand, and the left on the other. They are about social rights, which you have not accepted to enter the Constitutional Review, about the way common goods are managed, the role of the financial system, investment, private, social and public, which society needs and the economy, namely the country. In the 2020 budget, two figures are important and set out whether the budget will be implemented, in what direction and at what pace. One number is 3.5% of the surplus. You did not accept this 3.5%, with own resources and own resources, to do it 2.5%. With this you have deducted a large sum from our ability to throw it into the real economy. The second and most important are 2.8% of growth. A discussion on growth would therefore be of real value in the budget debate. You said no or at least say no to this debate. You continue an election debate, which forgets that by 2015 there have been governments in Greece, which in particular, over the past twenty years, have led the country to bankruptcy and that you, PASOK and New Democracy, brought the Memorandum, and your motto is "reduction of business taxes to come into investment and thus create jobs". But wasn't that your policy before a memorial, plus the difference in the political and social level? Is the freedom of large private capital to define and run so-called growth based on their private interest? But wasn't that the logic that led us to bankruptcy? How fast, I wonder, are the critical circles now? In how many years will the Greek people be invited to resurrect the banks, regain wages and pensions? It is clear that a project needs to respond to what needs we prioritise, what comparative advantages we will strengthen and how we will activate all shareholders in this project, namely the state, public, society, private entrepreneurship. I liked the fact that a New Democracy MEP spoke of a social economy. It was our deficit that we did not promote, but it is a dynamic element of growth from now on. So what will be the mixture of incentives and insurance? So far you haven't told us anything. I won't go on because the time has passed. I just want to talk about two specific issues. We all agree that the maximum unity should be demonstrated at national level. This is also about national defence. We have recently voted, and as SYRIZA, for three major equipment projects and we will continue to do so on the basis of needs. However, we must rule out guidelines that have already been proposed by Members of the New Democracy. Firstly, we must rule out the hunting of armaments. I have heard a New Democracy Member saying for the next few years that we should give an additional EUR 5 billion for equipment, namely, to come to the Amnesty International - anyway - the PASOK governments and the New Democracy after that, which made huge equipment. We have to hit the patriopathy, the warship and the entrepreneurial interests of the outside and internal. So we want a targeted plan. Secondly, an increase in the term of office proposed by Members of the New Democracy. I'm sorry, are you all right? I am not saying it as a whole for the New Democracy, but for those who have proposed it. Increasing the term of office? What do you think? That conflicts happen today with bayonets? In fact, a Member of Parliament said to you: "We also want a new weapon, from G3 to G4. If you were to tell me an increase in the number of NSAs or NSAs, I'd say yes and we'd go find some money. But raise the term of office? I think we should rule it out. On the contrary, we must begin to restore the injustices suffered by the military officials. The Ministry of Defence's budget was reduced by 50% in the Memorandum years, 38% reduction in the wages and other remuneration of military officials. We may be proud to have kept the defence at a high level, but we need to help now, we need to find ways for this 38% to become 30%, 25%. Secondly, there is no budget heading in the area of expenditure. It is about the refugee - immigration, where you have certainly done a mess. Fifth plan at the moment, fifth. On Friday you voted for and made a law an amendment setting out the national coordinator and the Single Border Surveillance Body. Because the High Commissioner expressed opposition to closed centres, because the European Union does not finance closed centres and the operation of closed centres, you have decided to put them in the budget. First time in Greece, the first time since the beginning of the refugee crisis. How much will it be for 2020, will you tell us? Will it be 100 million? Will it be 200 million? I can tell you that about 75 million will be for construction. For their operation, how much will it be?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Vice President, please complete. I can't show any more tolerance, because we'll be charged with conspiracy of Vice Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u87	How much are you going to make available to a failure to try to impose your xenophobic agenda? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u88	Me, too. However, it is not wrong for the Member of any party to express his personal opinion. I say this because my colleague said an increase in term. This isn't to death.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u89	I did not say about the New Democracy, I said that colleagues have mentioned it. I can name three.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u90	It's not for death. I am in favour of Members having this freedom and speaking. Of course, all right, history has recorded who ordered the big equipment and who paid them later. We didn't order them together, another party ordered them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u91	Not those two, those two.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u92	No, you didn't refer to SYRIZA, but you mentioned it. Another government paid them, so we wouldn't forget. Well, let's go to the ninth circle. It is now the sixteenth, so that my colleagues will be prepared. Next, Mr. Dermenzopoulou from New Democracy, Mr. Arahovitis from SYRIZA, Mrs. Skondra from New Democracy, Mr. Biagis from the Change Movement, Mr. Kotrias from New Democracy and Mrs. Perka from SYRIZA. Mr. Dermenjopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget submitted to the vote by the Treasury, in general terms, incorporates and implements the pre-election commitments of the New Democracy's economic programme. These were triumphantly welcomed by the majority of the electorate in the elections of 7 July. At the same time, consistent with our liberal ideological position, we are presenting with today's budget, a wide-ranging opposite approach to the management of the economy from that followed by the country during the four-year SYRIZA period. In practice, we annul the ideological overtaxation imposed by the previous government, in the middle and productive strata of Greek society, while at the same time focusing on the production of wealth for all, with basic tools for attracting foreign investments, strengthening the competitiveness and extroversion of the Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen, drafting a budget is a particularly demanding process, as it requires the coexistence of a strong economic development perspective, by ensuring the protection of the weaker social strata. At the same time, in the case of Greece, this equation becomes even more unresolved, as it takes place within a tight financial framework for achieving high budgetary surpluses. Our Government chooses to achieve the above objectives of the budget, using two key tools. Reducing taxation and speeding up reforms. More specifically, the already voted reduction in the tax burden, both in businesses from 28% to 24%, and in natural persons with the introduction of an import tax scale from 22% to 9%, is expected to lead to an increase in available income, an improvement in the profitability of all businesses and a further decline in unemployment. Supporting the economic climate recovery goal in the country also influences the efforts to revitalise strategic sectors of the economy, such as construction, by exempting VAT on newly built dwellings and by deducting 40% tax on expenditure related to the energy aesthetic and functional upgrading of buildings. At the same time, our Government, with a number of reform interventions towards reducing bureaucracy and simplifying the procedures for the establishment of new businesses, is expected to be founded on attracting new investments that will fill the investment gap in which the Greek economy is from the beginning of the crisis. With the above mixture of fiscal and reform initiatives, the government shows in the budget the forecast for growth of Greek GDP by 2.8% in 2020, which is one of the best performances of the economy within the euro area and clearly improved by the anemic growth rates achieved during the SYRIZA period. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, this policy has a beneficial effect on the financial sizes of the economy. The reduction in tax contributions does not imply a corresponding lack of public revenue. On the contrary, the reduction of the economic rates from the unnecessarily tax burdens of the previous four years results in a better return on tax measures, while the promotion of electronic transactions leads to an increase in the tax base and a reduction in tax evasion. According to both the Bank of Greece and the European Commission, our country will achieve an increased budget surplus of 3.58% for the next year, compared with the objective of enhanced supervision of 164 million. As it is easily understood, our Government abolishes SYRIZA's beastly primary surpluses, which were responsible for enforcing Greek society in the previous years of a restrictive policy, far greater than those agreed with lenders. The government's call at that time that the above overruns of the budgetary objective were directed to support the socially weaker and to limit extreme poverty are being defeated by reality itself. According to Bertelsmann Stiftung, during SYRIZA's governance, there was no significant reduction in economic disparities in our country. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Dermentzopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] On the contrary, in our government's budget, social policy is being considerably strengthened. For example, I mention the increase of 200 million for hospitals, 108 million in the EEA, the increase of EUR 1 000 per child, the reduction of VAT on infants from 24% today at the reduced rate of 13%, as well as the exemption from the solidarity levy for all young people with a disability of 80% or more. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government in a few months has achieved a number of important objectives, such as changing psychology within the country, which is reflected in all indicators for improving the economic climate. It has also gained confidence both in our political partners abroad and in the markets. This is also certified by the rapid fall in Greek interest rates and borrowing costs. However, we must be very proud, as this budget, the first of the Mitsotakis Government, reflects the intention to escape from the past, from the mistakes, from the illusions and from every barium that kept our country, at best, stagnant. It shows the mood of a society, as expressed in July, to change the image of our country. That is why I am personally convinced that the 2020 budget will achieve its main objectives, while at the same time being the head of a new era of creativity, prosperity and confidence in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u94	Thank you too, Mr Dermenjopoulou, for having been absolutely consistent in time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting from the top Western theory, nineteen students and students and a fellow professor from the Department of Political Science and International Relations of the University of Peloponnese. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with my position in Parliament's Budget for 2020, which is the second after the country's exit from the memoranda and the strict comitology, I would like to point out the following: the words of each fellow Member from this Step are historical records and are of great importance to the people who are listening to us and I say this from the beginning, because I believe that the communication games of the type of TV panels and of the election balconies do not fit in this Step. I will put to the end a gleaning of statements about the farmers we have heard in the past period. In general, therefore, the 2020 budget is characterised as a budget for denial of the election promises for society. And it is a budget of denial, because the main election line of the New Democracy was the reduction of tax burdens for the middle class. However, with the tax bill, which was passed a few days ago, but also the imprinting on the elements of the budget that we are debating today, it turns out that we have exactly the opposite results. In other words, on the one hand, we have a series of cost-benefit reductions for large incomes and a few over-profit companies and, on the other, a series of reductions for the middle-class under whatever income definition we choose to characterise. A characteristic and undeniable example is the fact that almost 80% of the benefit of the reduction in the tax rate from 28% to 24% for businesses will be fruitful about six thousand large companies or 2.5% of all companies. It is also characterised as a class budget, with the reinforcement of the few and strong, at the expense of society and society as a whole. In other words, we see an increase in income disparities, which are not only being addressed, but are being strengthened. We see the reversal of the attempt launched by the SYRIZA government to equalise burdens, after all, according to the constitutional requirement. And that is not just what we, ladies and gentlemen, say, a number of professional and social actors. The benefits of leaving the country from the memoranda achieved by SYRIZA with the labors of the Greek people, not only, are not distributed fairly, but are distributed in the same way as the country led to the crisis and bankruptcy. By focusing in particular on farmers, fishermen, farmers and cooperatives and small food processing enterprises, I would say that the treasure was an carbon for all of them. I would like to explain that, first of all, taxation, where we are talking about a relief of up to EUR 173 per annum. The reduction of the import tax rate to 9% for the first 10,000 euros to natural persons has a very small impact on farmers who enjoy general tax, which was introduced by the SYRIZA Government. And the increase in duty, too, has a very small impact on farmers and few benefits, only rural families with more than three children will see in their taxation. So this is a fiasco in relation to what was called the election. Secondly, the reduction in the tax advance that farmers will see will only be 5%. This, of course, looks more like a farce than a tax relief. Thirdly, no reduction in the taxation of cooperative farmers. Alexis Tsipras had already announced a discount on the turnover that will pass through the cooperatives for farmers, natural persons, members of the cooperatives. This would, in fact, be a brave incentive to strengthen cooperatives with new members, but also to control the para-economy in the agricultural sector. Fourthly, even the recent announcement of a discount on agricultural oil disappeared, since in the relevant code for revenues from the excise duty on ‘diesel’ in the 2020 budget the revenues are increased by EUR 177 million, i.e. from 1.364000 in 2019 to 1,541000 in 2020. Fifthly, the budget of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is reduced by EUR 50 million, i.e. 5.88% and, indeed, by the Ministry's budget development. Sixthly, there appears to be nowhere to be any provision in the budget for staff costs in new recruitments of permanent scientific staff, both in the Ministry of Rural Development and in relation to veterinarians in the Ministry of Interior. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Let me remind you that the government of SYRIZA had started the procedure immediately after the country had left the memoranda and the commission for the recruitment of a hundred and eighty employees to the Ministry of Rural Development and a hundred and seventy two veterinarians to the Ministry of Interior. With missioned services, does the government hope to smash the Greeks or does it not have such a political will? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I'll need thirty seconds, Mr. President. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, our fishermen have seen the imposition of a capital tax which will apply in a few days' time from today, that is to say, as from 1 January, and will be calculated not on the basis of the turnover or catches of the fishermen, but on the basis of the length of the vessel. That's exactly why it's fun. And it comes as the fishermen face very great pressure both with climate change and the establishment in the Greek seas of foreign species that are pressing fish stocks, as well as great competition from fishing fleets of neighbouring states. I am, of course, talking about neighbour Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a revelation budget. The election masks fell early for the middle class, for farmers, for farmers, for fishermen, for fishermen, who understood early on the election deception of the New Democracy. I now present in the Minutes an evacuation from a friendly newspaper of the pre-election promises that are being disproved in this budget. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the memorial reality, that is, to the recipe that led us to the bankruptcy of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u96	Mrs. Skondra from New Democracy has the floor and Mr. Biagis is followed by the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget is the one following the policies announced in the election campaign and that the Government of Mr Mitsotakis implements from the first day he took place, just five months ago. The opposition parties are critical and a general vague refusal to admit some data. Only in the budget, ladies and gentlemen, are the figures speaking. And what do the figures tell us about our country, which, as we know, is under budgetary discipline? In May 2019, the previous SYRIZA government granted the allowance entitled “Twelfth-third” pension from money intended for the social dividend at the end of the year. It was a pre-election cost of EUR 800 million. He did not give up on drinks, as Mr Tsakalotos admitted at the time. At the same time, it reduced VAT rates to certain types of food and part of the focus. In this way, it created a State budget expenditure of more than EUR 1.5 billion. Gentlemen of counter-population, these expenditures were not planned, so the State General Accounting Office would review the forecasts in the budget and instead of 3.5% primary surplus, would give a deficit of EUR 395 million. Within four months the government covered the gap and moved on to other expenditure that had not been budgetd. I would like to remind you of the cut-off of HISPIA by 22%. Also, while Kyriakos Mitsotakis had made it clear that because the dividend was given by you in Easter instead of Christmas, there was no possibility of a second division. Nevertheless, with the right policies that have been followed, resources have been saved and the government has managed to give a new dividend to our economically weaker citizens. So we started with a negative anticipated result of EUR 396 million and within five months of governance not only covered your election booths and gaps, but we kept the target of 3.5% and created a primary surplus of EUR 336 million or 3.73% of GDP for 2019. And today you're still criticizing? Ladies and gentlemen, our economic policy prioritises the achievement of the budgetary objectives. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. A major reduction in the interest rates of Greek bonds is recorded. We proceeded with the tax relief of natural and legal persons. We facilitated repayment of the debts to the State and the insurance funds through the regulation of a hundred and twenty instalments. We are continuing to implement the demilitarisation programme. The 2020 fiscal policy provides for a primary surplus of 3.58% of GDP, increased compared to the target of enhanced supervision by EUR 164 million. The aim of the interventions is to speed up the development process of the Greek economy by means of a comprehensive reform plan. I won't bore any more numbers and evidence. The general and special rapporteurs of the majority have also said so. I would like here to make a special reference to the serious issues of the agricultural sector. I am elected in a purely rural prefecture which, at the same time, is the second poorest in the whole country and which continues to record the highest unemployment rates, as well as dramatic figures in demographics, as, unfortunately, deaths are almost twice the births throughout western Thessaly and therefore also in Karditsa. There, therefore, in Karditsa, as in several other prefectures in the country, agricultural and livestock products are the main source of revenue. However, they are experiencing serious difficulties mainly due to high production costs. While our products are of the best quality, unfortunately we are not in a position to compete with cheap imported products, so that our farmers and farmers are forced to sell often at lower prices. In order for the primary sector to be able to breathe again, there is a need for a national strategic planning to allow products to be produced at less cost, but with a view to maintaining their high quality. The government has the capacity and obligation to launch appropriate policies to support the primary sector. Also, a second issue on which the government must bend is integration and improvement of infrastructure in central Greece. I am referring to the rail network, as well as to the completion of roads, because we all realise that without modernising existing networks, but also improving roads, goods transport adds to the cost of goods. In any case, and after ten years of hard economic hardship, we must pay particular attention to those areas that produce primary wealth. Thessaly and especially Karditsa must be among the first to be supported to recover and escape the continuing stature they experience. After all, the agricultural sector is making a direct contribution to the national economy and has opportunities to offer many more. It is one of the three main pillars of support for our national economy, along with shipping and tourism. Greece belongs to the main agricultural countries. It will hardly have heavy industries. So what we have as a comparative advantage is to make the most of it. In addition to the historically difficult economic times, the primary sector has contributed catalytically to the country's recovery and development. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has an economic policy completely different from that which existed in the past four and a half years. We leave the model of government and overtaxation. We don't believe it anymore, it doesn't work. We're reducing taxes. We are creating sustainable growth. We are seeking to attract investment, transparency in trade, to limit tax evasion, to reduce bureaucracy. The budget that we are discussing gives impetus to our national economy and I urge everyone to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Skondra. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the above Western theory they are attending the meeting of sixty students and students and four of their teachers from the 3rd General High School of Argos (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. Mr. Biagis from the Change Movement, followed by Mr. Kotrias from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, all these days I have watched the majority Members and Officers engaged in an incredible communication game of impression, completely cut off from Greek society and its real needs. In fact, the paradox of the case is that both strongly claim that they are fighting for social good, that they are disgusting society. In the end, it can be seen that both of them are finally ignoring it, and those with its words yesterday, and those with its budget today. The drafting of the state budget is the top parliamentary procedure. This is the time when each government reveals its political identity. So today we meet colleagues of the governing party to celebrate, for the New Democracy Government is setting up its own myths and delusional ones. On the other hand, we hear SYRIZA's colleagues celebrate their successful account, which, thanks to them and to their previous governance, came out of the memorials. Ladies and gentlemen, it is sad to be out of reality. The market is squeezing. Shoppers are struggling to keep their stores open. The workers are now economically weakened both by tax evacuation and overtaxation. Farmers are no longer able to survive, as a result of the protracted crisis in connection with the prices of agricultural products. Train proof is this year's price of olive oil, which despite the reports of all about its high nutritional value, is at the lowest historical price. The Greek households have been confined to the absolutely necessary, the most necessary, for their survival. Young people continue to seek decent work anywhere, whether in Greece or abroad. The moments we're living are special, and if you'd felt a little conscious or even a little self-critic about both you of the New Democracy and of SYRIZA, you'd ask for an apology for the "Zapope" and the apologies for the shading of the memorials and their abolition with an article and a law. Ladies and gentlemen, these policies, which have been known since yesterday, cannot lead to a better tomorrow. A new model of national reconstruction based on the reconstruction of structures, benefits and services is needed. It takes real areas, which we see not only in the budget, but also in your planning. Corfu, the area from which I come, is especially tourist area with many development opportunities for the local and domestic economy. As an islander, I would therefore expect, beyond the figures and revenues, to see a radical economic approach by you on how the modern tourism product, linked to culture and the primary sector, will be the determining factor of exit from the crisis and how it will be formed into a strategic pillar of the domestic and international economy, while helping to support the inhabitants of our islands, with rational and real use of the transport equivalent. There is, ladies and gentlemen, a great need to establish preventive mechanisms to prevent tourist crises, such as the one that broke out two months ago with the collapse of 'Thomas Cook' and left all workers and entrepreneurs working with her exposed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to renew my request to the Ministry of Finance, Mr Minister, in order to make immediate arrangements for the non-payment of VAT for invoiced and unpaid amounts, as well as for their non-taxation. What rationale, really, is it for you to ask to pay you the VAT that has been proved to have not been collected? How, too, can tourism businessmen be taxed for money they have never collected? Answers to this question, if you so wish, gentlemen of the government, are found in the case of the bankruptcy of "Marinopoulou", where a number of judicial decisions have been made. Nowhere in the budget, too, are your positions on green development, the exploitation of alternative forms of energy, and above all, your proposals and your concerns about tackling climate change that threatens modern culture. There is not even a word in the rapporteur's report, let alone as policy areas. For our shipping, the Minister presents a table of revenue and expenditure, without a comprehensive framework for maritime policy on how the tertiary sector can be a central pillar for the domestic European and international economy, as well as the role the ship repair sector should normally play, where our country has both specialized staff and know-how and much more of the infrastructures that are capable of bringing great benefits to the state's revenue. We are stalled, however, and we have not given answers to important questions about this sector of ship repairs, such as the 24% tax and global competitiveness. So I think that they should first of all examine the finances of the ministries and, secondly, proceed to balanced revenue - expenditure - as this method has been applied many times and has failed miserably. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, there are surpluses and budgetary adjustment interventions that enrich the budget pages. But they have completely emptyed the evidence of the real human face of politics. They are unreliable and do not need special attention and support. It also loses political meaning when we run to the numbers, and we forget that behind them there are men, women, children, our families. We as a Movement of Change we believed and believe in the human factor. That is where we invest, and that is where we put our real hopes. Numbers prosper for us when people prosper. Unfortunately for you, gentlemen of the government, neither the numbers nor the people prosper today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Biagi. The next speaker is Mr Kotronis from New Democracy, who I do not see being here. So Mrs. Perka has the floor from SYRIZA
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u101	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Today we feel - and I address the Members of the New Democracy - that you are kidding us these days rather.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u102	We thought that for four and a half years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u103	We read that the superstition does not ultimately mortgage the property of the Greek State, but is a tool to support growth, the well-known pillow has contributed, he says, significantly to reducing the cost of borrowing. Obviously when 2.8 is not anemic growth, since it is a budget objective, then we did not have one, because 2.8 is the revised growth for the second quarter of 2019. We also did not make less pensions, it was not a reduction in pension costs, because we now see that it is a reduction of around EUR 200,000. So Mr. Brutsis is going to make fewer pensions than us. Not to mention the budget gap that was so great that you directly gave EUR 200,000 000 for HISHA, of which EUR 136 000 000 are to be taken back with the objective values. The contribution beyond the EUR 260,000,000 we provided for the ENPIA is around EUR 60,000. We also learned - it is the joke that continues - that the government of SYRIZA has curtailed the Public Investment Programme in order to achieve budgetary objectives at the expense of development, etc. I'm cutting off the PDP. And it is very important, because one is the EDP and another is the absorption of the EDP In 2018, then, it reached 6.237 million. Obviously, in your opinion it was fine because now you predict that 6,150 million will be executed. In other words, it is planned to sub-execute the MIP by EUR 600 million. It will close below 2018, although in the first half of 2019, the SYRIZA Government delivered expenditure at a rate of 500 million, increased by that of 2018. It's a lot of numbers, but it's a conclusion. The truth is that with your policy - and I am going to refer specifically to it - I do not see even 6,150 catch it. And of course, this also undermines the completion and absorption of the NRP in 2023. Here we have to say that there are projects that are frozen and I am also talking about the integration of entrepreneurship actions, the freezing of network projects, as well as the privatisation of the infrastructure TENs. But I shall refer in particular to the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. There we see an drastic cut in the national strand by 82 million and the co-financed by 255 million. In other words, we have a history low for this ministry with 337 million cuts. Of course, there is a reduction, because this will make the absorption of the bolted works better and I shall refer to them. And I'm talking about the metro of Thessaloniki, which goes in 2023, and there we'll have claims, both for Patras - Tower and for the BOAK that starts from a zero base. Of course there are some tricks. We see that the costs of subsidising the barren lines will be covered by the PPC, so we also have a little bit of a financial space there. And there is one issue with the 'TRAINOSE' that we see as being paid by the ordinary budget. That's a serious matter for the part of the Civil Aviation. As much as we searched, we have found nowhere in the budget that there are distinct costs for the Civil Aviation Authority. It is an independent authority and the Minister himself had promised to do so. The presidential decrees have been taken out of us. We already see in the Civil Aviation Service increased wage costs, although part of the staff would go to the AAA, the independent authority. That has to be answered. It does not seem that this AMP, the independent aviation supervisory authority, is created. It says for five million from ticket evasion and rationalization of free movement. As far as the ticket escapes, with you. I believe, however, that following the latest measures and the electronic ticket that we have introduced that it has been reduced too much. This may, however, hide a restriction on the categories of beneficiaries for free movement. And since we are talking about transport, I would like to see a streamlining of the metro and electric routes, because there is really a problem. With an amendment to the OSH, you have abolished IAS, even though the budget is referred to somewhere. He's, he says, a clipboard. He's talking inside. You take her three years later. After all, we have said that the metro of Thessaloniki will go in 2023. At the same time, we are giving lines to the CBEL and so we are also looking to the profitability of the CBELs. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, transport is a very emerging and very dynamic sector of the economy. It can make a very important contribution to increasing GDP, but it also wants strategic planning and exploitation of the country's comparative advantages. To increase trade, exports, etc. a very targeted logistics effect is required. We've made an action plan. I have asked a question about the Gonu camp, which, without being part of any planning, suddenly the Prime Minister said it would make it a free economic zone. We have asked about the fly over and the exterior regional of Thessaloniki, which is not part of any design. However, if we continue to do projects which are not measured, which do not serve any specific needs, then the economy will not go well at that level either. Just one word about the heating allowance because it's my area, Florina. Do you know how much a family gives to warm up? So we see in the budget that they are reduced, he says, because we have given a lot in 2019 and 2020 will be zero. To tell my fellow citizens that in Florina heating allowance in 2020 there is no one. That's great! Not to mention defoliation, which in any case is not foreseen anywhere, nor in the special sector, anywhere. 2028 is deprivation, but the budget for this purpose I do not see. But now we're going to the biggest plaque that needs to be cut, and it's about the Greek one. It is written by the rapporteur and I hear it from this Members of Parliament. The Minister responsible should inform you that we gave it to him almost ready. The Greek had eleven reversible sects with a contract inadmissible. Unacceptable reversible sects. We made it right. In any case, the budget is provided for in the budget. For 51%, on the second anniversary of the change of shares the investor will give money. That's not foreseeable. He'd give it anytime he wanted, and it's a profit, other than the others. That's very indicative. Presidential decree: we did it. We got a plot without topography. The register's nowhere. Limits didn't exist. Delimitation of fields, archaeological sites, forests, saints, as in all of the country. Because that was the trick, no tools. Presidential decree, sixty-nine private and public bodies, which had to leave in 2012, made them very difficult because it was PSU, were buses. We did the Public Management Agency.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u104	You need to finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u105	I need one more minute, and I need one more minute. And, of course, the casino settlement, a global originality contest. We took him out because he had to contest the Greek state, but it must be seen in there how the investor would get money from the "casine" after being the owner, because now it's the Greek state. Incredible contract, like most of the time you signed your space and the PASOK. They don't defend the public interest anywhere. All that this government had to do was the two KLAs, which are the specialisation of the presidential decree we have taken, and which one year are working - public consultation is over, so it is at the Central Management Council - and to complete the arrangement for the casino that is in the air. That's it. Mr. Mitsotakis said he needed seven days. We laughed, and we said he doesn't know about procedures. Where is he? But they start after the tricks. Now the tricks are starting and we're watching them. One more thing. We may - and that is why you say about ideology - tortured the environment more. But besides defending the public interest, they have something good for investment, they have legal certainty. Because if you do spatial planning with amendments like this, or if you do PSF on where to give the public to a project that has appeals, you don't have legal certainty either. In any case, I would like to see any Member who says 'has finished the work and we have unblocked it', to come and have a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u106	Thank you. Ms. Bizou from New Democracy then Mr. Synthrakis from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be within the time limit. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the first budget for our Government, which we are called upon to vote for, has a special burden. It is the first budget after the first catastrophic decade of the Greek crisis and signals the country's ability to achieve the transcendance. It is the tool for Greece to take the step in the future. It is a budget that stimulates investment and development, while at the same time providing protection for small and medium-sized incomes. It is a budget of opportunities that creates a climate of confidence in the international markets and optimism in Greeks and Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about budgets in this Chamber, we are used to identifying words such as 'primary surplus', 'financial space','expenditure', 'excess'. How do all this touch the Greek citizen? How does he understand them and how does the professional, the housewife and the worker translate them? Does that mean anything to them that we're voting on today? Let me tell you a brief story of the crisis: Chrysa is not even a woman 30 years old, a mother of two children. It maintains in Larissa a small business, a neighborhood shop, opened in 2014, believing that it will help the income of its family and the future of its children. The summer that passed us, however, after five years of hard tax and exhaustive insurance contributions came to a dead end. She had to leave her family to work in tourist businesses on the Greek islands. For five months, she was only seeing her baby from the application on her cell phone. Chrysa was about to close her business and turn to the unemployment fund. She told me that it was better than the harsh day-to-day life, since her net income, due to overtaxation, came to compete with the unemployment benefit. For Chrysa, therefore, taxed from the first euro, the New Democracy Government reduced the income tax rate from 22% to 9%, giving it a significant breath. And with this budget, Chryssa will begin to see the reduction in insurance contributions that have been abundant since this year. And it is important, Minister, to reduce further the time-contributions, as we have committed. For people such as Chrysa, small businessmen and shoppers, the reduction of corporate tax this year to 24% and 20%, the reduction of dividend tax to 5%, the reduction of tax advance payments, but also the commitment to phase out the solidarity levy and the trade fee is real oxygen. It is a policy that allows the people of production to breathe and create. Two weeks ago, she told me she was going to give her business a chance, because now she has hope. This is also the special element of this year's budget, that it changes people's lives, gives rise to hope for tomorrow. This year's budget is not a number and awkward. It's our everyday life, as we live. Thousands of Greeks have been found in the position of Chrysa in recent years, Greeks of all ages who have seen their future being specified dark, Greeks who have suddenly lost their jobs and hope to find another perspective. Chrysa's story isn't the only one. It's the story of our neighbor, our relative, the new professional, the countryside farmer. This year's budget is different. It is the illusion that we have already legislated. It is a budget that even before being voted has shown its marks to the daily life of the Greeks. There are measures that give hope and optimism to every woman and future mother who wants to work but, at the same time, to make the family. More people will return to the line of work again. Significant sectors of the economy, such as construction, relive and wages begin to grow. Let me make a special note on the area covered by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, because I come from a county of agriculture. By ensuring stable resources from the new CAP, the new bill for cooperatives, following a 10% reduction in taxation for all producer groups and cooperative schemes and the treatment of illegal Greekisations in agricultural products by intensification of controls, will achieve a real development shock, which will give new perspective to rural development. We are next to the Greek producer, the fighter of the Greek land, the man who bleeds daily, giving the Greek economy great comparative advantages. We are next to the young people who want to paint their future in Greece with colors of optimism, hope and faith. We are next to all those who were hurt during the crisis and now it is time to heal their wounds. We are next to all those who are unable to tolerate our country being a country of Paris in the European Union. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote in favour of our government's budget to send a strong signal to all the world's lengths and backs that Greece is here and standing up with its own powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Bisew. Mr Emmanuel Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. Then I will give the floor to the State Secretary, Mr Dimas. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. The 2020 State Budget is also unfair and class-based in favour of financially powerful. It is a budget of tax exemptions and incentives for the few and the budget of taxation for many. The budget cannot satisfy those who produce wealth, which are the workers, and at the same time the few, who earn from the workers' sweat. This budget is, of course, a long way from covering the current needs of our people for public and free education, medical care and welfare, for anti-military, anti-nuclear, anti-military, anti-smoking protection, social structures of pre-school or third-age age and people with disabilities. It has no measures to strengthen the people's income, the unemployed, the pensioners, the single parents, the polytexts and the third families. In such an environment, which is investment-friendly, business-efficiency and business-efficiency, municipalities and regions cannot remain outside. Basic infrastructure and services, which concern the people, are adapted to the logic of recompense and entrepreneurship. The process of converting the municipalities into auditing tax mechanisms is completed, broadening the fees and taxes, while privatising cleanliness, electric lighting, in green with a simple majority of those present on the municipal council. The cut-off of 60%, compared to 2009, and will continue to fall over the rest of the years - coupled with the ban on recruitment of permanent staff has led to huge shortages of infrastructure and staff. It turns out that the so-called "decentralisation of the state" with which all parties and their forces in the municipalities and regions, other than the Communist Party of Greece, are fully aligned, was only a systematic effort to reorganise local administration in a reactionary, anti-popular direction in order to align the goals of capital in the new circumstances and needs. It is a processed strategy, progress and decisions in the European Union and in our country over the period from all governments, since the 1990s with the "KARIKARATRIA" and then with "KARIKARATO" until today, with "KLATHEN" and goes by saying. They started the capitalist crisis pretentiously and are escalating in the phase of the capitalist economic recovery. The revenues of the state budget for 2020, which are determined by more than EUR 54,000,000, come from 93% of the labour layers, whose income has been literally crushed. The municipalities will only receive 1,857,000 euros for 2020 and the regions only 677,000 euros when only their staff payroll is estimated at about 2,500,000 euros. It is a pure challenge for the people and their needs, when the tragic events in Eye and Mandra, Crete, Evia, Thassos as a result of the absence of anti-military and anti-nuclear protection, when 80% of public buildings and schools remain uncontrolled and the incubation control has stopped in 2005, when thousands of children stay out of childcare stations when thousands of teachers are undetermined. It is challenged to speak of deficits and at the same time to legislate on the voluntary taxation of shipowners, a new state guarantee for banks with 12 000 000 euros, in NATO 4,500,000 euros per annum for defensive expenditure - supposedly - a fatal billion in construction and energy colleges, privatisation of ports, airports, motorways, tax exemptions and provocative incentives to big capital. In addition, 70% of the total operational resources in the municipalities are being called upon by these permanent 'bottles'. In the unified local administration's budget, these amounts are the only ones that are recorded separately with the prediction of an increase of EUR 2,750,000, plus EUR 135 million last year in order to overcome the government's contribution to the "blooded surpluses" amounting to EUR 201 million. It is also confirmed by the revenues of the previous financial years, which, from 559 million estimated for 2019, eventually received 840 million, an increase of 50%. For 2020, the objectives will be even greater, reaching 869 million euros, as expected. It shows, however, the effectiveness of the hunter, who together have unleashed the state and municipalities, against the people's households to collect the dues and not from the large companies, which owe most of them to the municipalities. It concerns the mesh of repressive and threatening measures with account seizures, tax blocking, with a threat of electronic auctions for debts over 500 euros. It is also confirmed by the grants from the Public Investment Programme which are increased by just EUR 4 million. Most of this programme is channelled to the needs of business designs and speeches. This is becoming even more revealing at the level of the regions managing the NSRF, the MSF, and only a small part of them eventually goes to infrastructure and projects needs to serve people's needs. The budgets, ladies and gentlemen, reflect in the most cynical and appalling way the important role of local government in planning capitalist development, and it makes it clear that neither balanced development can be achieved, nor can there be polite, local and regional policy when the general policy remains anti-popular. For the JRC it is urgently needed today: Fight to meet the current public needs with state funding covering all the needs of all the necessary operating costs and payroll of workers in municipalities and regions, to return all the resources set aside for local administration and its due, to abolish all the reactionary institutional framework that directs municipalities, to find returning and entrepreneurial, to proceed quickly and to finance projects of counter-fighting and anti-nuclear protection, anti-gendering, beyond and outside the reasonable cost-benefit, public-private partnerships promoted by the government and the European Union, to ensure the functioning and development of new structures of public and social with modern and free services and services for all, with adequate staffing of all scientific and other specialities, with stable work and full wage and pension rights. There is no room for complacentness and waiting, we say, any illusions about the role of the local administration that it can generally work for the benefit of the citizens. Capitalist development requires sacrifices, and that is why the local government needs a key elbow that serves it and that is not going to go hand in hand with better working people's lives. It is therefore a oneway to organise the struggle against the real opponent, the monopolistic groups and their profits, their state, their political staff, their own capitalism, and it requires the people themselves to organise the counter-attack for the final victory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. The reason is now the Deputy Minister of Development and Investment, Christos Dimas, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the draft of the 2020 state budget, the first state budget of the new government to be voted on at a difficult time and a liquid outside environment. Without questioning the Greek economy is taking firm steps to prove that it has left behind the times of instability and uncertainty. Integrating international estimates and forecasts, this year's budget serves specific objectives: It reflects the implementation of the government's programme commitments, following the objectives of budgetary discipline, is optimistic about the country's performance, but they are realistic. It is, in fact, a means of trying to regain social justice by looking mainly at tomorrow and the medium-term improvement of the country's economic profile. The crucial role in this direction is to improve the competitiveness of the Greek economy and we are working in this direction at the Ministry of Development and Investment. Already in the draft "Investing in Greece" legislation, we have eliminated significant obstacles, convening the country and international indicators, and continue in the same philosophy as political targets on the next day of the country. In this context, the emphasis of political support for research and innovation creates important opportunities and places Greece in the group of countries that are planning and tomorrow, with science at the forefront of their planning. We must not only cover the lost territory of recent years, but see how we can lead the wider region of the Balkans and Southeast Europe. We've opened up a lot of issues. We started five months ago, without finding a ready agenda, we started almost zero, especially in the piece of innovation and step-by-step - trying to improve the environment in which Greek and Greek researchers work. That is why, in cooperation with the relevant Ministries of Education and Economics, we are moving directly towards reducing red tape in research, particularly in the PPE's operating regime with the changes that are being legislated in the next few years. Research and innovation are issues that should concern us much more, because they shape the everyday life of all of us in our homes, in work, in the whole of social and economic life. We all recognize that the Greek scientific community has considerable potential. It is characteristic that while in academic publications we are at the top, unfortunately, when the result is translated into innovation, we are very low and the results are almost disappointing. In fact, Greece in the European Innovation Scoreboard is in the 20th place of the twenty-eight Member States. So one of our main objectives is the more effective connection of research produced in the country with innovation, with entrepreneurship, with the market. The transfer of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology from the structures of the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Development and Investment is also trying to achieve this result. So it's a first step. We believe that state-funded research should provide added value to the economy and society. The linking of research centres to entrepreneurship can therefore only offer positive benefits. In order to achieve a result, however, in this effort, we need a holistic approach, a national strategy, which is why we have also created the National Council for Research, Technology and Innovation, the ESIB. We are very proud and happy that distinguished Greeks have accepted to participate in this effort. Indeed, in the composition for the first time, not only academics are involved, but also people from the market who, along the way, have achieved considerable things. But we're not just staying there. We have already taken the first step towards transforming an untapped public property into a "Innovation State". The decades of untapped real estate of "WHOPI" in the Municipality of Piraeus we aspire to evolve into a hive of evolutionary ideas for the benefit of society, a hive that will bring people close to science, innovation, technology, and even the arts and create an innovation ecosystem, with the main orientation, beyond business development, supply and society as a whole. A corresponding effort is also being made for an innovation centre in Thessaloniki. In addition, our aim is for public expenditure research to contribute as much as possible to improving public administration and, obviously, national defence and security. For decades the entire Greek state has spent hundreds of millions of millions of dollars on research funding, but has never attempted to use the research results to meet the needs of the public administration. This is a distortion that we are trying to correct. We are already running a program in cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence, a pilot program, so that for the first time the research tissue can be linked to the military structures and also to the companies that develop cutting-edge technologies. But we won't just stay in them. We have opened an interesting agenda for issues in order to maximise the benefit of each euro spent by the state. For example, I mention that we are already planning a new bilateral agreement with the United States of America on research and innovation, which aims to broaden the transatlantic cooperation of the domestic research community and we hope that we will have signed it in the first quarter of 2020. The transfer of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology to a new privately owned building, which is competent in its mission, without the burden of the state budget. The significant increase in the budget in the "Research, I Create, Innovation" action aimed at expanding the number of beneficiaries. And a few days ago we announced the financing of two hundred and six partnerships of research centres with businesses. We hope soon that this figure will increase. While in progress is the notice to finance the creation of collaborative entrepreneurial entrepreneurial formations. We are therefore working on a draft to change legislation so that the university ICP members and researchers can very easily and quickly create spin-off companies and thus translate their research activity into innovative products and services. But we are also discussing a new project to support investment in research and innovation, a greater reduction in taxation for companies that invest in young researchers. As regards the part of strengthening innovation, we are determined for obvious reasons to support it. We have announced and implemented in the first half of 2020 the creation of an electronic platform for the country's innovation ecosystem. The aim is to be to be able not only to record numbers, sectors, levels and size of newly-born enterprises, but to be able to offer costly incentives to tax, labour and other issues. At the same time, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we even organise the institutional representation of their achievements. We are starting from the United States of America an effort to operate research scientific diplomacy structures in the model of advanced countries, so that we can closely monitor international developments and have a say in international decision-makers. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, investment in research is a one-way road. There are today challenges in the world and the country - such as climate change, dealing with health issues - which research has a crucial role to play. Only through research will we find the appropriate responses to the major problems and through the insulation of innovation we will be able to have the appropriate tools at our disposal. The investment in research and innovation is therefore not a luxury. It is vital that the country survives the international system and becomes competitive. The global economy is rapidly transformed, with a lever for digital technologies, which overthrow existing structures and create a new model of growth that has an overall impact on the power of states. The countries which in the years to come will have surpluses of innovative potential will be those that will be leading, regardless of their geographical location and size. We must adapt to this reality in our country as well. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of the 2020 budget, which is a realistic budget, aimed at a high and sustainable rate of economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u112	Mr Constantinidis has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr. Flamouraris from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 July, immediately after the government's vote of confidence, the new Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, set as the central objective "to make the lives of Greeks and Greeks better". If we count them, there have been almost a hundred working days and there have been many of them in the new government. In general terms, the production of Parliament's work during this period probably has no precedent. Within these first hundred days some thirty bills were passed, the Constitutional Review was completed and much of the election commitments made by the new government were implemented. At the same time, the country has shown a responsible and firm attitude to national, European and broader issues, regaining the credibility and respect of its interlocutors. No reason, of course, for any comparison with the works and the days of the respective period during the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, if we remember where the country was in the first five months of previous governance, we will be there near 5 July. It was then that SYRIZA, the ANELs and the Golden Dawn voted for a referendum and a heirly majority current, which had been raised with lies and populism, gave an unambiguous order - answer to that captive question. It was the period of closed banks and tails at ATMs, when many businesses were led to sudden death and others were rushing out of the country. It was the time when "no" became "yes" and Greece was forced into a third, unnecessarily memorable memorandum. It was the time when the then President of the Parliament from this step denounced the public debt as illegal and disgraceful and at the same time the Prime Minister recognised it and arranged for it to be repaid. It was a time when the country's assets were promised for ninety years. But do all this have to do with the budget to be voted on? Absolutely, it's the answer. Not only because political controversy has been a rule of comparison, but, above all, because politics and the economy have been subject to the principle of continuity. Every new government does not start at zero, but it receives a specific situation, which goes on in one direction or another. The same is true of the state budget. Each new budget shall have as its starting point the closure of the former. That is why the accounting data are often a field of confrontation between governments. This is particularly true when the change of spoon occurs through the year, as is the case here. Who is charged with failure and who is crediting success in such a case? SYRIZA denies that important benefits of the new government are its own achievements. "If you have to give, then you owe it to our policy," they tell us. It is, though, isn't it? No, it's the answer. But before that we must resolve an obvious contradiction. SYRIZA on the one hand accounts for over-taxation in the Memorandum Policies and, on the other, deals with surpluses. So he renounces the memorials and rejoices about their results. But in reality, the bleeding of the economy has the signature of SYRIZA. This is exactly where policy change and economic improvement in the second half of this year have been identified, which has allowed important social benefits. In other words, the fact that the New Democracy, instead of strangling the economy with tax burdens, provides alleviations and creates an environment that is friendly to investment and to entrepreneurship, which results in the growth of the economy, the creation of new jobs and ultimately more revenue for the state. This is the main equation. The fewer taxes combined with the removal of bureaucratic barriers bring growth, while the expansion of the tax base brings more revenue for the State. And this basic equation is complemented by political determination and credibility, the resolution of the banking system, access to markets. All of this creates conditions of stability and confidence and is reflected in the low cost of borrowing, the improvement of the economic climate and the upgrading of the country to international rankings. That's the difference, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. On the one hand, your ideas and, on the other, the EUR 30 billion tax, above the surpluses, which you have imposed on the citizens in three years' time and which have denounced the economy. The reduction of HICP, tax rates and VAT selectives, business reliefs, incentives, benefits to the most vulnerable groups and to new families, fairness and prosperity have created conditions of uplifting and optimism in society. "You're doing well," people tell us. The bar enters every day higher and higher. At the same time, however, there are conditions of encouragement and optimism in the rest of the country, in western Macedonia, the transition to the post-lining era brings with it uncertainty and insecurity. Kozanis, from which I come and whose economy is entirely dependent on lignite activity, unless immediate measures are taken to compensate for the consequences, are at risk of economic decline. I know that the operational and development plan prepared by the government for the region is proportionate to the objectives set for the decommissioning of lignite. Moreover, following recent developments at European level for the Fair Transit Fund, which, by leverage, can reach 100 billion euros, the determination to change the energy mix is justified, since it is evident that the important benefits that can be derived from those regions that are more prepared in this direction. That is why I am convinced that, with the completion of the planning for Western Macedonia, the optimism of a new development process will prevail. Ladies and gentlemen, because the budget vote is likened to a vote of confidence, we give it to you, in the belief that 2020 will be a better year for the country, hopefully for western Macedonia and creative for the Kosani Prefecture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, too. Mr Flamouraris has the floor from SYRIZA, followed by Mr Davakis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, because I am succeeding in the step by Mr Constantinidis, I would like to say to him that no one needs to be mentioned in 2015, because, as you know, what you have handed over has nothing to do with what we have handed over. You delivered us a 25% reduction in the income of the Greeks, delivered us 28% unemployment rate, handed us over one million below the poverty line, and handed us empty funds. And we tried through the hard times we lived to bring the country and set her up, to stand up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u116	And growth of 0.7%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u117	We'll talk about development, yeah. So I don't think it's right for your party to refer to this period. But, because I was a little provoked, that's why I answered you that way. I shall therefore proceed to the written speech I have. First of all, I want to avoid speaking with the language of numbers, about alpha or beta tube and its political sign. Not that I consider it unnecessary, but why the argument has been exhausted. But I am sure that outside, our fellow citizens are fighting us for a decent life and are slowly feeling the consequences of your own unsuccessful policies. And so, day after day, I believe that their expectations from the Mitsotakis Government will be disguised. Our Government, as I said before, along with the sacrifices of the Greek people, led the country out of the memorial tomb, with society on its feet, conquered its credibility on the markets and the memorandum that was absent. It was, however - and we do not forget - that the surplus, for which we had launched our claims, which led to a 1% reduction with a guarantee of part of the 37 billion. Instead of continuing the country's effort, Mr. Mitsotakis retaliated this claim for after 2021. If this was cowardice with Europe, obedience or ideological recognition, it is not of interest. The result counts. In other words, the surplus of 3.5% remains for the second and third years after the end of the memorandum and is consolidated as a basis for the country's economy. The policy chosen by Mr Mitsotakis is two political felonies. The first is to consolidate the ideology of the memoranda, with the continuation of austerity policies. The second is the total reintroduction of culture that led us to bankruptcy. Your choice, ladies and gentlemen, of accepting the surplus, I hope, is not disastrous for the country. With this in mind, there is the need to judge as a whole the budget, development law, tax law and red loan law, because all these laws are governed by a single philosophy, a hard neoliberal and not class-neutral, as you are trying to convince the Greek people. In order to be clearer, ladies and gentlemen, with the budget you have tabled and the three laws that you have already voted on, you are discriminatory in favour of the few areas of development, work, social policy and redistribution. In particular, as far as development is concerned, I have heard the previous speaker again. Talk about real estate, tourism. I think we need to see the following: Firstly, there is no aim of improving the competitiveness of the Greek economy through branches, products and services of knowledge-intensive nature that integrate research and innovation. Secondly, it is far from the objectives of sustainable and fair development, which incorporate the economic, environmental and social dimension. Thirdly, the Public Investment Programme, while it is a tool to attract investment, can be seen as falling to 6,750 billion, that is to say, which was in 2019, even though your Government appreciates growth of 2.8%, although this objective is also questioned by international organisations, and even by the Greek Industrial Association. We also note that at the end of the year there will be a reduction in the cost of the IMP of EUR 600 million, while a reduction will also be made in the revenue from European funds by about EUR 320 million. At the same time, we note in the Red Loans Act that there is absolutely no development criteria, that the obligation of banks to finance small and medium-sized enterprises is not laid down against the guarantees given by the public authorities. It is not excluded that thousands of enterprises, which, while not loss-making, are not temporarily able to serve their loans. Finally, tens of thousands of owners are at risk of losing their homes. And all this, because there is nothing in the Red Loan Act. Finally, both tax bills strongly favour large companies, unlike small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for over 90% of all Greek companies. With regard to the scope of work and workers' rights, faithful as you are in your neoliberal idealism and identified with the IMF, you are forming a new and even more splendid middle-age working for the workers, with the undermining of sectoral contracts for the sake of business and individual. With the specific economic zones that you want to create, it will not be possible to conclude sectoral agreements for workers, so that business is overpowered. At the same time, with the signature of local contracts, the wages of national sectoral contracts can be reduced. The consequence of these policies will be a decline in incomes, leading to a reduction in purchasing power and, therefore, in demand, a growing number of medium-sized enterprises and almost all small and medium-sized enterprises. In the field of social policy, we have introduced a policy of insurance with major interventions: firstly, the privatisation of the subsidiary. Secondly, insurance contributions increase to 85% of insured persons. So the hopes of the pensioners to increase their pensions, which are very small, will disappear from the cut in the dividend you make for three million beneficiaries, with the abolition of the tenth pension, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u118	You need to finish it. I'm gonna get a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, despite all your election announcements to strengthen the middle class and reduce taxes, we see no progress. On the other hand, you are moving towards measures aimed at reducing income and social benefits for the vastly large majority of workers, pensioners, self-employed, farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises, on the one hand, and on increasing profits from large and very large groups of businesses on the other. They clearly show to the Greek people that all the campaign of the New Democracy and its friendly means were based on lies, because it aimed only at the government. Unfortunately, it is still going on today. I conclude by saying that we, the Left, are struggling every day for the protection of the weak and the middle class from the throat of the anti-popular neoliberal trip. At the same time, we are taking the lead in creating the democratic progressive front, which will resist your disastrous policy and, with the participation of the people and youth, we will overthrow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to take the floor to clarify one or two issues, with the opportunity and placement of Mr Flabourari. I'm starting with the famous theme of the primary surpluses and the account that the SYRIZA government was supposed to open. Let's just say some truths. Firstly, you have never raised this issue either in the Euro Working Group or in the Eurogroup. You said it yourself, you heard it yourself. Nor have you been entrepreneurs on Eurogroup. Second, you didn't open the account for the famous. And that's what it was in the words. Thirdly, and if you opened it, it did not matter, because any guarantee does not play a financial role. Budgets are specific. They must follow European rules and you have not found a way to make a proposal that follows European rules. The change in the primary surpluses, in fact, must be done and we believe that it will be done, but it is based on a very simple argument. Improved debt sustainability analysis. That's what makes the change. In June, when the institutions came, we were told, in their report, at the end of the day, that Greece would reach 100% of GDP in 2048. In November, when they came back and all that had changed was the government, they said this would happen in 2042. In less than six months an improvement of six years. And that's half the job. The rest will follow before we go to claim the reduction of surpluses. But we will do it with a seriousness and efficiency, not with the words of entrepreneurs. Secondly, for austerity policies. Did I hear it called "austerity policies" by SYRIZA? Well, you didn't put EUR 11.4 billion. Austerity more than Siomple asked you and you didn't put more 18 billion dollars. additional tax burden for the period 2016-2018, in addition to the austerity that you imposed and collected? 30 billion Austerity! How much more austerity one would do than 30 billion. Over what Shoeble was asking for? I wonder. And I should also like to give some information to the House on the issue of the collection of HISA, which was discussed yesterday. This year we will go to total taxes on the property of 2,799 million, compared with 2,805 million that the budget estimated before our own reduction of 200 million ECU. It is to improve the collection of such property in real estate taxes, only in HNVY is EUR 110 million better the improvement this year, which does not need to be imposed. And next year will be even better. Prepare yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u123	Mr Lebanese, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor. I'll give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u124	I will fully respect the Rules of Procedure, because I do not want to go into the essence of what Mr Flambourris said. After all, Mr. Skylakakis answered him and everyone who's in here and those who watch outside understand that Mr. Flampouris is out of reality. The bad for the country is that he was out of reality and when he was the top Minister of the Government of Mr. Tsipras as Minister of State. So he has and has an absolute responsibility for where the country arrived in their days. But I have asked for the floor, Mr President, and I would like you to have the kindness, with respect to the honourable Member, to withdraw him to order and if you want him to be removed from the Minutes because he accused Mr Mitsotakis of committing crimes. He can make any criticisms every Member wants, and that is why we are here, we have different opinions, but, when we accuse a Prime Minister and especially of felony, he was naive and has escaped or something else in his mind. In any case, if you have goodness, call him to class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u125	Mr Lebanese, too much political exaggeration is quite a common fact, that is to say, euphemism on the one hand, there is defamation - let us call it that. When one says "coats", he doesn't mean that someone is doing a criminal act, he doesn't mean we're taking him to jail or taking him to jail. If you see the speeches by Mr.Mitsotakis and Mr. Tsipras or, much earlier, by Mr. Papandreou and Mr. Konstantinos Mitsotakis or, even before, the speeches in the budget especially, by Andreas Papandreou and Konstantinos Karamanlis, you will see that there are such excesses. It doesn't make any sense. I'll give Mr. Flambury the floor if he wants to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u126	If I may, Mr President. I'm just saying it with full respect to Mr. Flambury,
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u127	I get it, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u128	...but if you are kind, Mr. President, do not connect any personalities such as Andreas Papandreou or Constantine Karamanlis or Constantine Mitsotakis with Mr. Flamouraris, because they will take us with the stones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u129	Now you said two things, I'm sorry now, I'm not partying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u130	I'm saying it and I mean it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u131	How dare you deceive Mr. Flambury? What authority do you have to underestimate...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u132	And do you have where you destroyed the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u133	Wait a minute. I do not call it a party, Mr Levane. You're welcome, Mr. Dritsa. Everyone has his personality. Please. Here there are people who have been in prison, they have played a story. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, Mr. Dritsa and Mr. Lebanon! Mr Levane, you have seen that you too have done an exaggeration right now. I don't suppose you'd want to hurt Mr. Flambury.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Flavouris has touched on Mr. Mitsotakis and on the face of Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Flampourris has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u136	First - I said 'political felonies', I don't know if you forgot that. Political felonies, political attacks can be made. If you consider what you have said for four years against the government, then you must apologise for what you said before. That's the one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u137	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u138	From me, for what you said before. Comparison with political persons may also be made, but not in this way. In addition, we have a different view of how some political people are judged and what role they played in the country and whether they helped her out of the deadlocks or led to dead ends. I am not saying specifically, but that is a given. So political differences should not reach that minimum level that you brought them. And it seems that you have continued what you have done for four years, to swear, to lie, to try to convince the Greek people to make you government. Unfortunately, he did. Well, since you've become government, you could really do better to try to exert politics in your own view, but also with our own being, to think, that this policy harms the layers that we defend and that seems to be. So that's what I'm saying. And I come to what Mr. Skulakakis said now. Mr. Dogac, 1%, i.e. 2 billion budgetary space, we discussed it. You didn't claim it. We hadn't guaranteed it through Eurogroup. But you did not claim it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, he has no right now to say that, to reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u140	Mr Flamouraris, this debate, and in relation to what Mr Skulakakis said, will be completed through the dialogue process. Another speaker will take the floor, answer Mr. Dog.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u141	Therefore, it does not withdraw for ‘the coin’.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u142	Please, Mr. Levane. So this conversation is closed. Mr. Davakis should come to Stepma. A Lakon will bring calm! We'll see, of course. Here, you have the floor, Mr Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot say that Mr Flavouraris is out of the question, because he did mention some things as achievements of the SYRIZA and ANEL government, but I will say, Mr Flavourari, with all my appreciation of your face, that you did not mention all the reality, which means that you did not say in the list of projects what followed. And they followed the fact that the elections of 7 July, which the Greek people, I am democratically entitled, did not approve your policy - with absolute respect I am speaking to you - and gave the opportunity to this party to manage the fates of this place for the next four years. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that every budget, this bill that we are debating today, which, as we all know, and especially the new Members know, has only one year, is the only law that lasts a year, reflects every time the expectation, strategy, political references, political directions and the ideology of the government on the issues it has to deal with with the economy. It is clear, in my view, that this budget shows the return to normality, which the place so much needs after ten years of strong economic and social crisis. If we can say that SYRIZA and especially the former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, at the last moment, just before the end of his term of office, thought of the regularity that he had mentioned - and I see him to myself - Mr Papadimitriou in an article as a 'true regularity', because of the enormous problems that existed, invoking the normality at the time, we will say that this government with stable - not impressively, but firmly - and I would say, in fact, and effectively, steps towards the introduction of a normality. This normality appears through the budget pages, which we shall be voting on in a few days' time. I think, however, that the great case of the Left is also confronted with regularity and the refusal of the Left to accept normality, fighting against everyday life and against reality. If, on the left, the normality towards us of conservatives - and bad conservatives and right-wings - is monolithicity, conservativeism and, I would say, all the things that make up the Left's refusal, the regularity - and I would like to say that - is the necessary environment in order to make progress, in modernism, in the democratisation of our country and in the modernization of our country. And that, unfortunately, for a decade, the generations of Greeks have been deprived of it, a large part of which has also left abroad. So I think that this bill, this budget, is an effort towards normality. And I believe that, in this regard, the New Democracy, perhaps other aspects, of other wings, will support him. This shows the change in the psychological climate that exists in the Greek society, which has not existed for a long time - and not to tell us about the failure to verify our expectations or announcements - which also shows the difficult effort of the Government in order to make concrete changes to the issues they have to do and to the structure of the state - we have seen the bills that have come to us for the "final state" - and the structure or simplification of other serious problems, which, unfortunately, still upset the place, such as bureaucracy, such as centralisation, such as expensive and multi-purpose public, which at present, in its various manifestations, is still within the limits of the 1950s and '60s. I believe, therefore, that if we say that the primary sector is to develop our own country, we are to promote the primary sector and see what this budget is doing and the reduction of expenditure and the reduction of insurance and taxation contributions to the agricultural sector, it shows that it is moving towards a competitiveness in this sector. And I think that as a representative of an area of agricultural interest I am entitled to say that at the moment the Greek farmer, despite the enormous problems which still exist, despite the various variations in conditions, such as, for example, the issue of the absorption of olive oil or the price of olive oil - you can see where we are today - or the issues of edible olives - the Kalamon olives - which, with their overhead imports - illegal imports, I would say, imports of the Kalamas olives, but also of milk - undermines the product, eases and creates, with the effort of the Government, a good prospect for its future. There are issues, Madam and gentlemen of the Government - and I am pleased that Mrs Mendoni is here, because I shall refer to a matter of her own competence - which is related to the structure of the Greek region itself. We need to look at the'regionality', which the regional state needs, which was needed by the Greek citizen and especially the citizen of the Greek region. We have the hospital in Sparta and, indeed, the great announcement of the Niarchus Foundation, which will build a new hospital in Sparta, which, on the other hand, makes us feel the same bitterness that we felt from this position when the Law of Mr. Gavroglou took the Nursing School from Sparta and took it to Tripoli. It was Mr. Gavroglou's last law. And the Niarchus Foundation comes in and builds a new hospital, in response to the lack of clinical education that was invoked by Mr. Gavroglou's legislation. This is the case all the time, and this is mainly the case for young people to renounce and turn their backs on politics. We have issues like the museum of Sparta, Mrs. Mendoni, the new museum of Sparta. Sparta cannot wait any longer for her cultural policy. There is the old museum of Sparta, which will be renovated at the expense of the Niarchus Foundation and which I believe has entered a good path, but there is also the new museum of Sparta, which is still on paper. And I would also say something that the Minister would like to hear. So I would say that the benefactors who have been offered to help the new museum of Sparta are good, but I think the Greek state should also help financially for the new museum of Sparta. There are issues relating to forest maps, there are issues relating to subsistence of public services, such as the DAGs, of all our counties. There are no geopolitics, no geotechnics, no appreciaters. I would say, with great optimism, that we heard the announcements made by the Minister for Rural Development on the introduction of private criteria to ELGA. The Greek farmer cannot necessarily pay ELGA contributions and, when necessary, the Greek agricultural insurance will not find or make assessments of the damages that exist three, four and five months later. All this composes a problematic situation. And I believe that what is reflected in this budget, namely the return to normality, hard work, serious and responsible, will give a good prospects and a great solution for the Greek region and also for the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Mrs Vetta has the floor from SYRIZA and is followed by the Minister of Justice, Mr Tsiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is at the top of the parliamentary process, as it assesses the government's priorities for next year. At the same time, however, it is also the fountain of comparing the political announcements of the New Democracy in relation to government measures and the achievements of the Governments of SYRIZA. Why not forget that the SYRIZA and the sacrifices of citizens are due to the possibility of tabling a budget without a Memorandum of Understanding after years of comitology, surveillance and poverty, which came from the acts and omissions of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK. For the budget in 2020, before focusing on specific points, I will mention the following: Despite the ambitious announcements, it is unrealistic, I would say utopian, with a strong neoliberal direction and a limiting of state spending in a number of areas of welfare and social policy. And, of course, no attempt at normality, as Mr Davakis said before. I will now focus on a few examples in just a few areas, precisely to highlight the deceptive and misleading policy of the New Democracy, both pre-electionally and with today's budget. In the first place, GDP growth is projected to rise by 2.8%, despite the estimates of all international organisations for a significantly lower growth. The truth is that you have demonstrated together many times with the IMF, which also systematically fell out of its estimates, that the forecast for the economic expansion of the country is not your place. I would remind you that the governments of the New Democracy and of PASOK even appreciated the years that GDP was devastated, with reductions of up to 7%, that there would be a minimal reduction in GDP. However, even for the economy of the debate, this indicator will be achieved. One would expect that there will be an increase in the minimum wage of 5.6% the Greek people remember - despite the brain washing attempted by your friendly media - that you had announced an increase of twice the growth rate. Unfortunately, for the people who have believed you, there is nowhere in the budget for this provision. In another area, which is of particular interest to me, on environmental and energy issues, we see the evolving privatisation of PPC and ELPE networks, while the state provides useful tools for conducting energy policy. The fact is that the only element in the investment is the costs and subsidies for private investment. Here, again, the public. For PPC, which with the new ESSK you are gradually selling and creating insecurity for all citizens, especially for the inhabitants of regions such as Kosani, from where I come, you have no provision for aid through the state budget of these regions. And, of course, it is not just the wish that we have heard before. There are also no plans for projects to improve the energy efficiency of public buildings. There is no mention of the ELECTRA programme. There is no expenditure on reconnecting consumers with low incomes that we introduced in 2018. Now on the issue of welfare and social benefits we have: the abolition of the thirteenth pension, a reduction in pension costs by EUR 192 000, a reduction in social solidarity allowances, namely the allowances for: LEI, family allowances, rent allowances, by EUR 367, 000. We have a reduction in the Public Investment Programs for the OAS, a reduction in the state subsidy to the ECA, while the much-spoken reduction in the contributions for each employee will reach the highest amount of four euros per month. For young scientists lately we see that you are making communications measures that concern only five hundred people, while your policies have removed tens of thousands from the country. And you do not even notice what you will do with the four thousand scientists who were integrated into work programs. In other words, you are ignoring the recommendations even of organisations that are not renowned for their left-hand eyes, such as the OECD, which say that social inequalities are a brake on economic development and must be mitigated by targeted measures. For farmers too, there is no relief in the taxation of cooperatives, whereas the budget of the relevant Ministry is reduced by EUR 50 000 000. In culture this year's budget, unfortunately, confirms the total lack of proposals and long-term planning in culture and the depreciation of the role of the Ministry of Culture in the country's political process. Apart from the fact that the total budget is reduced, compared to the 2019 figure by 14,000,000 euros, there is great ambiguity about the expenditure, which raises many questions about your intentions. For example, there are 70,000 000 euros of regular funding and 19 000 euros of the Public Investment Programme for a new, undetermined, category, 'final coordination', i.e. expenditure, which reaches 1/3 of the total budget. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The so-called "executive coordination" costs more than costs the arts and letters, while it absorbs double the resources from the PPC in relation to archaeological sites and museums. It needs to be fully clarified what specific expenditure will be spent at the moment, for example, when modern civilization has a significant reduction. For example, does the ‘final coordination’ include about EUR 5,000 000 for the costs of offices of ministers and Secretary-General? It is clear that this overconcentration of the Ministry's resources is in direct control of the political offices, without accountability and planning. Yesterday's non-response, moreover, to Mrs Mendoni - which, unfortunately, left at the moment - concerned part of these funds, and I am referring specifically to code 501, that is, only to the EUR 23 000 000 of the ordinary budget, plus EUR 20,000 000, that is to say, only EUR 43 000 000 of the EUR 89 000. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. There is also a reduction in the budget in sport. While for the Public Investment Programmes, the reduction is EUR 9,000,000, we must not forget that we are a pro-lympic year. It seems that a gift was given to anonymous companies to reduce the tax on high-paid athletes and does not leave any more money on the basis of sport, to the hundreds of thousands of athletes and coaches all over Greece. In conclusion, you have managed to ensure that the budget, apart from an uproar and the utopian, is neither developmental nor social. It is a classic budget, which takes care of the few, reduces the tools of the state and the potential for a welfare policy. It is a Memorandum of Understanding without any more memoranda. Rather, in the end, the Memorandum commitments were not so foreign to you and that is why you bring them back. And if history is repeated as a tragedy the first time, I would remind you that the second time it is repeated as a prank, a prank and a collapsing against the Greek people, who will be asked to pay for your broken ones this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, too. The Minister of Justice, Mr. Tsiara, has the floor. You have the floor for ten minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, five months have already been completed by the new government and in a few days' time, in fact in two days' time from now, its first budget is being passed. It is a budget, which has a clear development footprint, which is firmly geared towards further improving the economic climate and attracting new productive investments that increase domestic product and create new jobs for Greek citizens. The immediate tax relief measures already in place since the summer of 2019, and speeding up the implementation of large-scale investment projects, are a little well-known to the citizens. The crucial factor, however, in achieving the objectives of economic policy, is the commitment to deep structural areas, reforms which, in the area of justice, have two main components: speeding up the administration of justice and the consolidation of transparency rules in the functioning of public administration and the economy. In fact, effective administration of justice, particularly at the level of time, can become an important tool in an economy that is looking back to strong growth, while lack of transparency and difference are the strongest - perhaps - threat to competition by deterring the attraction of foreign investments and ultimately becoming a brake on the development of the economy. In the same direction, furthermore, the proposals of the World Economic Forum, which suggest both actions to strengthen judicial independence and measures to combat corruption as key conditions for achieving long-term sustainable economic growth. In this context, the Government has set up the National Transparency Authority, a new independent structure in which all the diffuse structures have been integrated so far in order to create a modern and flexible control mechanism capable of integrating all the best practices applied internationally in the fight against corruption. Already since the new government took office, the Ministry of Justice made the necessary amendments to the new Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, amending the provisions relating to the offence of active bribery, which had been degraded by the previous government, which prevented the attraction of foreign investments. And, of course, I think you all know that now, they have globally blackened the image of the country, leaving our home country unambiguous, both in relation to the OECD and the Group of Countries against the Corruption of the Council of Europe. In addition, L.4624 of 2019 on the protection of personal data was established by the Ministry of Justice high requirements of increased information and transparency by companies, as protection of personal data has been recognised by international sustainability standards as one of the most important issues for sustainable development, for the economy, for businesses. In the same direction, the legislation on mediation in civil and commercial matters is moving, which is now the law of the State, an innovative, hopeful institution, allowing time and resources to be saved for those involved and increasing the chances of a dispute being resolved more quickly, allowing for a quicker return to normal economic activity. At the same time, in addition to the arrangements incorporated in the development bill for compulsory electronic submission of documents to administrative courts, we are promoting a wide range of reforms for the digitisation of justice, through the extension of the integrated system of judicial and criminal law management throughout the territory, while, in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Policy and the General Secretariat of Information Systems, we are energising new smart electronic applications, which facilitate the daily lives of citizens and save resources, money and time for business, thus also in favour of the economy. In view of developments at European level in the field of electronic justice, the Ministry will continue to actively participate in actions aimed at the optimal use of information and communication systems to speed up the administration of justice, increase transparency, simplify procedures and upgrade the services provided. At the same time, it is initiated by the Ministry of Justice that the government's commitment to setting up special chambers in courts, where special procurement and competition cases will be dealt with, while the immediate objectives of the Ministry of Justice to contribute to the stimulation of the economic activity are the more rapid liquidation of the tax profiles of citizens and legal persons in order to dismantle administrative courts, while at the same time strengthening the revenue side of our state budget. Finally, within the framework of his responsibilities, the Ministry of Justice is helping to introduce new flexible tools for the management of private debt so that our economy and banking system can be exempted from the rocks of the'red' loans and creditworthiness is strengthened so as to return to the investment stage that will allow our economy to participate in the programme of quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank. Ladies and gentlemen, after ten years of deep economic crisis, our country has a new opportunity. In this new period the Ministry of Justice must be - and indeed is - a productive, development ministry, which creates the conditions and conditions for the liberalisation of the productive forces of the place, while ensuring strong rules of transparency in the functioning of the public administration, the market and the economy. A ministry called upon to face up to and remove distortions caused by the bad organisation of the judiciary, which today leads - we all know - to incredible delays in the time of justice, afflicting Greek citizens and delaying our country's development effort. The mandate of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis is clear and had already been formulated since the pre-election period: To restore the sense of the confidence of the Greek society in relation to the functioning of justice, but also in justice itself, to scan all the obstacles that keep our economy established in anaemic growth, obstacles that not only guarantee, but also risk new investments with thousands of new jobs. Already in the Ministry of Justice, a great reform project is being carried out, which is intended to decommission small and large investments, which have so far been stuck in the spider web of polynomialism and evil. We are already implementing this programme, which will allow our economy to take its next steps with stability and optimism. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a time when we must stand responsible for Greek society and try in every way to cure its pathogens yesterday, giving all those who believe that we deserve a better reality and a better society to see with their own eyes that the political system with responsibility and seriousness can finally take the necessary steps. I think that this is an effort which, with great ease, can be seen in the obligations that the current government has undertaken in these five months. I therefore urge you, for my part, to support this great effort with your vote. I invite you to vote in favour of the first budget of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Minister. The ninth circle of speakers has been completed. We're entering the tenth circle of speakers. The turn I have before me is: Karagkounis, Agathopoulos, Zoi Raptis, Mulkiotis, Vasileiades, Markos, Fotila, Kalamatianos, Eleni Raptis, Drasakis, Markopoulos, Katsis. We're starting with Mr. Karagunis from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the first budget of the Mitsotakis Government and finally leaving behind the grim economic reality of the previous years, the previous government. I have heard all the SYRIZA colleagues who say what they say about the achievements of the last four years, but they are rather forgetting what they have unfortunately done, because the truth is that they have brought budgets - almost all our colleagues - which state revenues and great surpluses came from 'taxation', tax-paying and from collecting terrorism, with millions of arbitrary seizures even for a few hundred euros. It was a government that brought poverty, accuracy, hunger pensions, seizures, a collapse of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and that eventually brought down the middle-class. We were left alone in the world where we continued to apply capital controls and, of course, the banks, which in every economy are the lever of growth, were actually not doing banking work, but were merely helping and operating as a mechanism to assist tax collection. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - I have also heard Mr Flambury earlier - you have taxed everything that is moving. Finally, the citizens four months ago made the "political fund" and evaluated, judged and finally replied with their vote on the events of the previous government. The people left SYRIZA's splitting and class populism behind and decided to start a course of real recovery without virtualities, without irresponsibility, but as the Prime Minister described it, with an agreement of truth with the productive forces of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said many times that Greece is talking about the budget, but we are not talking about and we are never making an account. The reason for this is that governments over time think that budgets are natural not to be respected. But there is something special about the first budget of the Mitsotakis Government, and that is that this balance sheet, which is always missing, has already been achieved in this case. It is not a technical account, but a political account, because what has happened - and everyone has noticed - is that the success of the Mitsotakis Government's economic programme has already been discounted by the markets, by the players of the economy, by the Stock Exchange, by the polls and above all by society itself. We MPs, especially when we come into contact with the world, see it clearly. What had happened has finally happened: psychology has changed, as I said, success has been achieved, because of course it is known that the economy is primarily psychology. It is this psychology that had collapsed in the years of the Tsipras government, when the citizen lived in a state of constant economic fear, that every day that he was day he would be asked for something more than the few remaining in this pogrom of over-taxation, underdevelopment, poverty and despair, especially in the middle class, and that is exactly what has changed today, I said it before, all the polls show it. Contrary to the past of fear and 'every day and worse', citizens say to overwhelming majorities that they believe their lives will go better, that the economy will go better, that there is hope in this place at last. This psychological overthrow, this reinstatement of hope, this expectation for better days is literally politically and economically inappropriate. In this sense, this budget has already succeeded. Because political and economic successes are more than the sum of individual measures and initiatives. I don't have to tell you. You know them very well, ladies and gentlemen. We're reducing taxation on businesses and natural persons. We stop using insurance contributions as a donor horse confiscation of the available income. We can go out today and borrow on the markets in terms that are unprecedented. We return the profits from the retention of Greek bonds. We are relaunching the area of the building, which is a lever for the whole economy. The international press says that we are seriously thinking about our European partners finally reducing the excessive budgetary surpluses, which the Tsipras government so willingly and - unfortunately - accepted. I don't have to tell you. You know, all the newspapers write it, the international press accepts it, people know it most of all. I said - and I want to stay here - on the economic and political surplus created by the change of psychology, the restoration of confidence and the feeling that the country is finally ruling. Because, ladies and gentlemen, economics are not just the figures. A country in which until a few months ago he ruled the State of Exarchates, a country in which the teachers were afraid to go to the universities, and a country in which, as I said, we had capital controls together with third world states, could not have an economic perspective. What investments should they invest in such a country? What legal certainty can there be in such a country? What position in the international division of labour has a country like this? This, ladies and gentlemen, has changed today, and this budget is the first example of a policy that will succeed, not because we want it, not because the New Democracy wants it, but because society, the economy and Greece need it, which at last deserves better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the Kastritis Achaia High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Agathopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA and immediately after Mrs. Rati Zoe from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, after ten years of cruel austerity and memorial, you have had the first opportunity this year to be the government to draw up a budget outside the narrow budgetary limits of previous years. Instead of saying thank you for being delivered to you by a country other than memorials, you are coming here first and foremost and you are slandering fellow Members with history in this area and instead of coming here to say thank you and making a development and social budget, you are making a budget that has nothing to do with the benefit of the greater part of society. The 2020 budget validates the policy framework already applied in these first few months of your governance: depreciation of the public sector, slowing down the social state, and at the same time increasing the executive state and uncontrolled appointments and almost obsessive commitment to tax exemptions - but what tax exemptions? — large and very large enterprises. But let's take them one by one. These days, reading the chapter - not Marx - of the 21st century, of Picketty, which, if you haven't read it, I recommend it to you unreservedly - is something that says at some point: 'Social state is a key economic development pillar for each advanced country. If, however, the citizens themselves are not convinced that the social state is working properly, they cannot be persuaded for its further support." It came straight to my mind - of course - your policy which you have been constantly exercising over the last few years. The symposium and the depreciation of public structures with a view to completely declining them for the benefit of the private sector. For example, in the health sector, the intention is to shrink the ESS for the benefit of individuals, after you have suspended the recruitments launched by the SYRIZA Government in various areas of health support for public care, at the same time open the debate on public-private partnerships, creating the right conditions and giving space to health entrepreneurs and private insurance companies. We saw this conversation - how the PPPs will get into hospitals and how the hospitals will become legal entities of private law - open up by your area officials these days and you are due to an answer to it. On the one hand, you are cutting up on health on the other, but on the other hand, you are moving on to appointments of those in the final state and around the Prime Minister, with thick wages. However, the positions surrounding the Prime Minister's office were not enough, so you continued the appointments of others and other very central positions of responsibility of the public administration, such as in the administrations of the public hospitals. Of course, the term "child" does not fit much in the choices you made there, because we have seen that your retired states are appointed, some of which are uniquely qualified in their curriculum, not degrees, of course, but support for your party. On the other hand, the true young scientists in this country choose to deceive them, as they see appointments to service places without merit, without qualifications, simply by party identity. This is what I remind you that you charged SYRIZA with the previous period. However, I would also remind you that you are the ones who have lifted just as soon as you took over the executive register to cover the public service posts on merits that SYRIZA, with the Vernardakis Act, had created. But you don't stop there. You're blocking the youth. You have promised over the past five hundred high-paid posts for young scientists. On the other hand, you have no intention of continuing with the SYRIZA programme for the return of young scientists, who started with the three thousand seven hundred young people with postgraduate and doctoral degrees in public bodies, as well as in recruitment to health and education. Why, let me remind you that young people who migrate abroad the years of the crisis are more than four hundred thousand. And you claim you're planning programs to bring back five hundred people. Warm congratulations! What are you doing? It's the question. Are you punishing the young people because they didn't vote for you because it's not the target group that supports you? It would be a very simple explanation and it doesn't suit you. You also disproved it on your own, because even the pensioners who voted for you, mock them and deceive them by making cuts of about EUR 200 million in pensions and by abolishing the thirteenth pension, which you had described as the election gift of SYRIZA, while you were committed to the perpetuality of the measure. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] So it's not a question of punishment. As Mikrutikos would say, "but it's something deeper that gets you dirty." It is your insistence on supporting the few with many and very few. Instead of using the financial space created by the SYRIZA government and supporting those who have put more back on the years of crisis than their own, instead of supporting the middle-class, as you were saying in the election, the 1,18 billion who have come up for positive measures are investing in the reductions in business taxes. Nearly 40% of the benefit will be fruited by about two hundred businesses, with profits of more than 7.5 million euros annually. I personally don't know how happy my people in Kilkis will be, for example, with this measure, because I don't know many who have business with that kind of profit. A total of 1,18 billion, 123 million go to the social state and the rest to tax reductions, particularly large businesses. Farmers happen the same way. You fooled them, too. What's the discount on agricultural oil? Where is the discount you promised and where are the tax reliefs you promised? Unless you mean that the EUR 173 tax a year will be what will save farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I'm gonna need a minute. In 173, as a figure, we also met at another point in the budget, 173 million euros is the reduction of the allowances for people with disabilities, provided for in the 2020 budget, another 139 million for family allowances, another 50 million for the reduction for rent and another 30 million for the reduction for school meals. These allowances, together with the social dividend, which you have so persecuted in recent years, were to support the middle-class and especially the young people, the new couples who are now trying to set up their lives. It was a very useful thing. It was also money that was placed on the market and on the real economy, and anyone who doubts about it will be very interesting this year, when the social dividend will be granted to a very limited number of beneficiaries, to see how the market will move on holidays. And then go back and tell these small shopkeepers "But we've thrown you 4% tax".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u153	I'm closing, Madam President. Instead of all the above, you promised 2,000 euros for every child born. And we're trying to understand, so you're gonna convince the young people to have children? Or will you convince them to enter the labour market? You are the ones who claim that gender equality comes through the rehabilitation of women in the labour market.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u154	Madam Colleague, please. You've been over your time a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u155	...so move the General Secretariat of Equality from the Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Labour. You had the chance, but you don't, you can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u156	Please, you've already reached nine and a half minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u157	I shall conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u158	You've been saying that for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u159	I'm closing in a phrase. You have therefore had the opportunity to reflect on this budget the measures to strengthen the work and support of women who have been out of crisis and who want to work, but they cannot, because child care is missing, welfare for the elderly, employment support programmes, family and working life measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u160	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u161	And this whole world had a hope that this budget will also be social. Otherwise, the tax evasion again sees coming to those who own and own. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u162	The ministers talk in their time and the SYRIZA MPs don't talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u163	It is for the Members that this is the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u165	It's been this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u166	Please. I just got up to the Chair. You know I have the relative tolerance for everyone. But I would ask you to keep the time, because there is a very large list of colleagues. If you think people should talk and some stay out of this process, I think everyone should take their responsibility. So I would ask you to keep the time tight. Mrs Raptis from New Democracy now has the floor, and immediately thereafter Mr Mulkiotis from the Change Movement. Mrs. Rapt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u167	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to take part today in the debate on the first budget of the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, a budget which lays the foundations for addressing the great problem of the Greek economy in recent years, namely the development and investment gap that keeps our country stable in the last position of the European Union in terms of investments and unfortunately in the first place in terms of unemployment rates. With the 2020 budget we put an end to the policy of overcrowding and their incalculable and incalculable overcrowding between 2016 and 2018, in which we were condemned by SYRIZA's irresponsible and ideological policy. It is true that at the time, with their unrelenting economic policy, the SYRIZA ministers removed 11.4 billion euros from our economy, in addition to the huge primary surpluses agreed with the lenders, over-taxing the citizens and especially the middle-class, according to a cynical confession of Mr Juliarakis here, in the Greek Parliament. The result of this policy was that they plunged citizens into debts, since at the same time the Greek taxpayers' debts to the state were launched at EUR 18.6 billion. On the contrary, with prudent financial management, after covering the financial gap that we inherited from SYRIZA for the current and next year, we have created a budget space at the same time and have already proceeded since this year to the total abolition of capital controls, which had been implemented since the summer of 2015, with the signature Alexis Tsipras and Yiannis Varoufakis, as well as the successful exit of the country into the markets, where we now borrow at extremely low interest rates, of the 1% rather than 3% with which the SYRIZA government was lending. Furthermore, we have made progress in reducing the HPAI by 22% for all owners, in regulating the hundred and twenty instalments for legal persons and facilitating our fellow citizens to repay their debts to the State, in paying an increased subsidy for heating oil, and in particular in front of the 5% reduction in the advance payment of corporate tax, in increasing the necessary supply costs of fuel from the Ministry of National Defence and in the exceptional grant of hospitals to deal with the costs of a direct and necessary nature for the health of citizens. What, however, changes for the citizens with the 2020 budget that we are voting on today? With him first, support is given to the Greek family, which has been tested over all these years, resulting in the rapid deterioration of demographic indicators since 2014, which have led with mathematical accuracy to the extinction of the Greek genus, unless the institution is supported. That is why we are granting an allowance of EUR 2 000 for every child born as of 1 January 2020, with extremely extensive income criteria, covering at least 90% of the families. We further reduce to 13% of the 24% applicable to SYRIZA, infantry species, as we reduce the income tax rate from 22%, which applied to 9% for natural persons. We are increasing by EUR 1 000 - and here is the practical family support policy - the tax-free limit for each child, proving by deeds and not by words that we support all families, both single parents and multi-texts. As far as businesses are concerned, we are practically strengthening the business in our country both for small and medium-sized enterprises and for the largest ones and reducing the income tax on legal persons from 28% to 24% already since 2019. Furthermore, we are reducing dividends tax from 10% to 5% in 2020 and supporting workers by reducing the insurance contributions of those full-time by about one basis point. With regard to strengthening the building activity that has literally been levelled in previous years, we are suspending VAT on new buildings for three years and already granted further development building, we are suspending the real estate gains tax and we are further returning to the property owners that part of the expenditure required for energy and aesthetic upgrading of buildings. In order to respond effectively to tax evasion and to strengthen public investment, we are strengthening electronic transactions that prove to be the most effective measure in combating tax evasion and transfer EUR 250 million from the national part of the Public Investment Programme to the co-financed, thus strengthening the expected development benefits. However, the 2020 budget in addition to tax revenues exceeding EUR 1 billion also provides for additional allocation of funds for necessary expenditure in the critical and sensitive areas of health, education and social security, in relation to the SYRIZA budget for the year 2019. In order to protect the health of citizens, we significantly increase the resources available from hospitals, as we provide for 289 million more for public hospitals and the national primary health care system, compared to 2019, thereby demonstrating who cares for public health and who sheds crocodile tears. Same to the EEA, which provides for increased funds of 108 million compared to 2019, because it is obvious that for SYRIZA these funds are fine letters, since they are not even ignored by the general rapporteur for Officerial Opposition. Further as far as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is concerned, this year's social security budget is increased, compared to the original 2019 budget, with an additional EUR 1 billion of EUR 119 million. So there is no reduction in expenditure in this area either, as you once again falsely claim. On the contrary, we respect the insured and the pensioners and speed up the payment of the outstanding pensions, which you have been late, by collecting surpluses, by gradually e-mailing them - from June to June - for their payment. Finally, as far as the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs is concerned, the 2020 budget is also increased by 102 million euros, as it provides funds for the appointment of four and a half thousands of teachers in special education and more teachers in public universities, despite the make news for the opposite. So, here too, we support public education and the future of our children with works and not with words, with truth and not with lies, as others do. Ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, the budget vote is traditionally equivalent to a vote of confidence in the government. It is, however, the first time in recent years, which a government has exceeded, within a period of five months, the expectations of its citizens and Greek society, which had an unprecedented effect on its legislative and parliamentary work and remained faithful to its electoral commitments, away from populism and ideologies. That is why the vote in favour of this budget is above all a vote of confidence in the optimistic and creative Greece, in Greece that looks forward and rises higher. We, in the New Democracy, love Greece, express Greece and this Greece will serve with all our powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u168	Me too, my colleague. Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor. I repeat that you will strictly keep your time. with a little tolerance. Please don't get over this time. Here you go, Mr. Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today called on to discuss the 2020 budget within an extremely critical moment for Greece and for Europe. On the one hand, due to Turkey's particular challenge, which attempts to violate our sovereign rights and on the other hand, because of the refugee problem that really drowns the country. If the government does not formulate and implement an integrated humanitarian and fair programme to host refugees, taking into account the current conditions of each region and the distribution in the region, then I very much fear that this time bomb will be blown up in the air sooner or later. In Boeotia, for example, structures already exist, in Livadea, in Thebes, in Oinofytas, but also right next to the limits in Richona, while plans for further investigation of such structures make local communities upset. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget of a country to a large extent shows the mark of economic policy being pursued. In this respect, the government's budget seems to be lacking in a comprehensive plan and it seems to be unrealistic. With this budget, the government continues its communication propaganda with the ultimate support of the friendly media and insists on a misunderstanding of the Greek people. After Mr Tsipras' hope, who never came and Mr Mitsotakis' "future" never seems to have started. 2020 is the same as 2019 and hopes go for 2021. The budget's on the table. It remains financially bound by the objective of primary surpluses - that is undeniable - without changing critical aspects of economic policy. It is based, as in 2019, on external economic growth assumptions. Generally speaking, it looks like a bad joke the predicted rate of growth of a regional economy in a crisis, such as the Greek one, is more than double the planned growth rate of the euro area. Mr Ministers, the mirror of a government's social sensitivities is the costs allocated to the social state. It is clear that the government is not intended to support society, farmers, workers, small and medium-sized enterprises, to support the weak. As far as labour rights are concerned, the steps of five-month rule are revealing. In August, with a last-minute amendment which lifted your declarations of good legislature - which means that the amendment of legislative instruments adopted before days of legislation has already become a norm and that good legislation has now ended - you remove significant rights from the workers by favouring the arbitrary nature of the contractors, as well as the cases of the termination of contracts without justification. In October in the famous development law, you went a step further. Go gradually. You restored the logic of internal devaluation in collective bargaining, leading to the depreciation of collective agreements and the strengthening of employers' immunity. You have legalised the associations of persons, as if they were primary trade unions, while you anticipated that local collective labour agreements prevail over business. This, not only does it save business, but it eliminates workers financially. You have given a dangerous boost to the role of the Minister for Labour, you have legislated to limit the unilateral referral to arbitration, the conditions of which lead to its effective abolition. Now, in December, despite the burden of responsibility, you face your first budget as a vehicle of your right-wing neoliberal perception, where social policy turns into a social cleansing operation. Instead of the weak being strengthened, they are becoming more exterminated. Instead of the small and medium-sized ones taking a breath, it extends the unbearable tax burden imposed by the previous government. Excession in combination with negative economic performance continues to make it impossible for many citizens to repay their debts to the public, even though they want to. And most importantly, you do not answer, Mr Ministers, the basic question of the state budget for 2020: what will the government do with the retroactive pensions on the main and supplementary pensions? The reference to this issue in the budget is general and rather unclear. In fact, you do not provide for the use of certain specific funds for this matter, except that they will be covered by the specific budget available for the Ministry of Labour. The cash balance of the social security institutions, as presented in the budget, is fictitious. It will be used to cover liabilities of the insurance funds from the decisions of the Council of State and the underestimation of the costs of the insurance funds. The reduction in pension expenditure by 192 million will not be implemented. Despite the duplicate declarations in the draft budget report to speed up administrative procedures for the adoption of pending provisions, the reality is quite different. Retirement applications shall not be reduced. They were both growing in governance SYRIZA - ANEL as well as during your own governance. There is also an increase in outstanding debts, and overdue pension applications, i.e. those which have been outstanding for more than three months, are also increasing. This is also confirmed by the Fourth Enhanced Monitoring Report of the European Commission of November 2019. I invoke page 63 of the report. At the same time, pension applications for 2019 have increased compared to the previous two years and the increase in outstanding applications continues and the Minister knows that. The non-creating of new outstanding pension applications requires a significant increase in the number of pension decisions. Both of the above means an increase in pension expenditure and not a reduction. In particular, the increase in outstanding pension applications in recent years means that retrospectives will not be reduced, but will be increased instead. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is the first in the unemployment index between all the countries of the European Union. We have new jobs, but they are mainly part-time and low-wage jobs. In the first three months of the insurance arrangement, twenty - twenty - two thousand, eighty - nine debtors were already out of control. In the regulation of 20 instalments of debt to the insurance funds, only 4.5 billion euros were set for a total of EUR 35 billion. The protection of first residence is now in the air and we are leading to extreme situations that the government will find before it. There is no provision in the budget for the duty-free payment and compensation of the people in the primary sector. There is no incentive for producer groups, no care to alleviate the taxation of farmers and farmers. Otherwise, the indicators in the budget codes are good, but they do not address the unrelenting day-to-day reality. In Boeotia, the characteristics of unemployment and the lack of investment are the accuracy and low incomes, but much more importantly, the lack of a sense of development perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, the main principle of the Change Movement is the defence and expansion of social rights, of the social state, which we understand not as a barbaric, such as the right-wing neoliberal concept of the New Democracy, but as an investment in man, social cohesion and economic development itself, in terms of justice and social solidarity. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that the country, at this time of threats and challenges, is in need of vision, of design and of profound changes and overthrows. This requires another budget, a budget which does not focus on simple codes, a budget which provides for a new allocation of resources. With all this, the Change Movement has one and only choice: to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Vassiliides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to vote for the first budget of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which, in my view, is governed by the principles and values of the New Democracy as expressed during the election period, but also recently at the tenth conference of our party. After several years we have had a budget without cuts that primarily aims to cover the development and investment public. We are moving away from the logic of overcrowding, and we are reducing tax rates and extending the tax base at the same time. There is provision for streamlining the general government's spending and revenue and increasing overall productivity, with emphasis on business competitiveness and the creation of new wealth. We are already seeing a revival of economic activity, which is seen in the positive messages of the economic climate indicator. It is time to leave the logic of the state - merciful and to create the conditions that many allowances will be unnecessarily paid. We want a state guarantor of fair, healthy competition that protects workers, the environment, free economic activity. There is certainly room for extending to the full coverage of our pre-election commitments. Here we will be and adopt its proper implementation. However, the 2020 budget allows us to be optimistic about the country's development progress. And because the main role of the Member is to present to the House the challenges and opportunities for his place, the rest of my speech I shall refer to Pella. My view is that Pella should be at the core of national development planning for two reasons. Firstly, it is quite disfellowshipped and experiences an unfair development deficit in relation to the rest of the country. Secondly, the possibilities it has are enormous, as it can be an international economic, cultural and tourist attraction. In particular, in the area of infrastructure, the main problem lies in the road link with the national network. The National Road Axis Thessaloniki - Edessa, as well as the connection to the Ennatia Road, must be speeded up. Pella remains the only regional unit in Macedonia, which is without access to Egnatia. These are national priority projects and both the regular budget and the Public Investment Programme should be instruments for speeding up their procedures. In particular, for transport, the development of a modern rail network will help quickly and smoothly to move people and goods. Large irrigation works, such as the Almopian dam, will create the conditions for increasing productivity at competitive cost. With regard to the energy sector in Pella there are great opportunities for using geothermals for domestic use, for primary activities, as well as for the operation of tourist facilities. The creation of solar and wind power parks is another area in which regional unity can offer to national planning. We must speed up the connection between urban centres and the natural gas network. The design is there and it's time to implement it. As most Members and most Members have rightly pointed out, the budget we are about to vote focuses on increasing the productivity of our economy. The primary sector was, from a state recommendation, the main productive activity of our economy. Pella is one of the first agricultural and livestock production regional units in the country, and yet it does not have a single school on agriculture and livestock with direct student practice, for example at the Paralimni Institute, which will also be able to operate as an innovative research centre. This year's conditions have been disastrous for farmers. On the one hand Russia's embargo, on the other hand, increasingly, due to climate change, extreme weather phenomena, have led to an unauthorised loss of income. The de minimis exceptional de minimis aid is a one-way road for the tree farmers. I'll repeat it. We are far from the logic of aid and compensation. We want to replace unnecessarily. But, unfortunately, this year is more necessary than ever. That is why we have to redesign our primary production nationally so that we can become competitive again. The recognised quality of our agricultural products gives us a competitive advantage to guarantee the revitalization of rural areas, the creation of many new jobs, ensuring the principal and the additional income of the people. We must motivate ourselves to certify Macedonian products so that they come out on the world market. In recent years there have been several investments in the processing sector. The potential for attracting new and larger investments in Pella is great. Finally, the sector with the greatest, in my view, growth potential in Pella is tourism. Although it has a globally recognizable brand - alas, who does not know Alexander the Great and his birthplace, which is the capital of Macedonia! - for decades he's been neglected. This is really the place of the four seasons. The museum of Pella has unstoppable treasures and even the evidence of the Greekity of Macedonia. Parts with special natural beauty, such as Loudia's plain, Lake Begoritis, Edessa's waterfalls can be exploited with respect to the environment. The ski centre in Voras and the Pozar Almopia Loutra are good examples of tourist enterprises with a wide margin of development. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last few years I have experienced my great fleeing countryside personally. Unfortunately, the benefits did not keep them in place. These few who have chosen to return are active in new forms of entrepreneurship. We must support them and create conditions for them to return more and all together to build the 21st century Greek economy. I believe that this budget is moving in the right direction and I urge you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping your time. Mrs. Gerovali has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, after a five-month display of extraordinary, subtle and urgent legislation, we have come to discuss the 2020 budget. And of course it is time for the fraud to be revealed against the Greek people. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have drawn up a budget with a growth rate of 2.8% for 2020. Ultimately, the 4% take-off is postponed, along with, of course, plans to reduce primary surpluses. I don't think Mr. Stournaras no longer trusts the data. The 2020 budget is a budget which, if you give anything with one hand, with the other hand takes it and takes it with interest and not with any interest. If he gives, I mean, one gets back ten. Let us just say one example: we have learned that the government has three thousand euros paid for five hundred scientists. I mean Mr. Brutsi's announcement. On the other hand, the work programme of the three and a half thousand OAS graduates is not renewed. The match here is larger than one to ten. Politics and the budget also have a number of things, which are organic inspiration. You mean 'perfects', you say 'perfects'. You mean 'popular and editorial state', you say 'final state'. A pharanonic structure you have built instead of a perfect state, which is intended for good, which will be called upon to implement the real political agenda, of course by suppressing reasonable reactions. However, the mud, ladies and gentlemen, which you have thrown on the posters, has not yet dried up. In this sludge you are feeding the ‘final state’. It is not necessary, in other words, to have the partners, the post-mutual qualifications, but also to explain how their wages are being launched. Medium-class support: The tax reduction to 24% favours 2.5% of enterprises, i.e. six thousand enterprises. But not most of them. Two hundred companies are mainly favoured with profits of more than 7.5 million. This mechanism lacks EUR 2.5 billion from the 2020 budget which could be tax relief for much larger, broad layers, for the low and medium-income areas. As a stepping-up, the insurance will come, with which you reintroduce hundreds of euros for freelance professionals. For social prosperous policy, the budget is bleak. Of the eight who got social dividends last year, one will get this year. The social solidarity benefits granted by the OPECA are reduced by EUR 369 million. Pensioners are also affected. As it does not pay, the permanent thirteenth pension, which has been legislated and paid on our day and, of course, all of this is dressed up with the necessary lies in order to prove it. The indifference for the low and middle layers is declining. By the way, since I was Minister for Civil Protection at the end of the day - I am glad to see that the ministers are here today - I would like to say that during our administration we have made a great effort to house Parliament's finances. It was consistently the Court of Auditors' criticism of setting up a Directorate-General for Economic Affairs. With the help of experienced officials, but also several resistances and difficulties, we have established this Directorate-General. We've joined supply services, fixed deposit, etc. The bodies. Today this has not been activated, as has the Internal Audit Unit, which has also been created on our day. In addition, with two new Secretary-Generals at the Ministry you did not see to it that you combined the financial services. And, of course, the increase in the budget is about EUR 5 million in the provision of workers, the partners of the political staff. Unfortunately with the 2020 budget and the revelation of the deception of many - and particularly of the middle class - I think many of our fellow citizens will see reality. Then comes over-repression, excessive, illegal violence, which democratic officials and the government have admitted - and are to their credit - that it was exaggerated and illegal and on the anniversary of the Gregoropoulos murder and the Polytechnic. However, as we all know, the repression is being carried out mainly by intimidation and passiveness, and I think that is where the tone is directed, and that is where the daily bombing of incidents from the police reports is aimed. Some - I do not think that this applies to everyone - and the government is consciously seeking to increase the sense of civil insecurity, because then more and more emergency and urgent measures can be justified as necessary. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, with the recruitment procedures of police officers outside the Greeks, thousands of special guards are recruited with two, three months of training. But this arms their hands and they go on the road and they are dangerous to others, perhaps, but above all to them in this case. I think we can count more. Both the Greek police and the Fire Corps are able to respond. I would remind you that we have strengthened the fire brigade, both human and logistical. I would remind you of all the things that have been done, for the permanentisation of fire extinguishers, an increase of five years of service and season, but of course also the armoring of the country and the air means that have increased since 2019, but are also wasted for the next five years. So, as you said this year, the serious treatment of natural disasters has been done thanks to the mechanism that had been set up for civil protection issues. It is therefore clear that it is enough for the political leadership to guarantee that the security officers are doing their job, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, and to protect the workers themselves in the House, from those who are trying with extreme voices and to rob them, so also to deprive them of them. Ladies and gentlemen, the gears of the state machine have already been put into operation in another direction, contrary to the one that was put on our own government. The budget confirms it in all its versions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u175	Madam President, I would like to speak for about five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u176	Five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u177	Yeah. Every day I make a five-minute position - not greater - condense some questions, some concerns and I develop answers. Six points I would like to raise, six illusions I have heard since the morning. First illusion: we are canceling - I have heard it from two SYRIZA colleagues - we, the Government of New Democracy, have the reductions in taxes decided by the previous government. Can you give us a law by which you've introduced a tax reduction and which we're canceling? Everything was air words. They were election promises, if you succeeded in being elected, and if this famous account were created. And I will testify to the Minutes, because you are causing me, the interview of Mr Alexis Tsipras and the financial staff in Zappeion on May 7, 2019. I read: Alexis Tsipras: "Today I have given a mandate" not to give "and we have opened a special account, an escrow account, to which we will deposit over the next 5,550 billion euros to reduce the primary surpluses". Such an account does not exist until today. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, I hear the argument that we constantly have over-optimistic considerations. I respect that. Estimates are made by us and you, we predict. This is the way economic policy is made throughout the world, with estimates and forecasts. We appreciate 2.8%. How much do you appreciate? You claim that the assessments of the institutions are correct. So you think that we are wrong and the 2020 economy will run at an growth rate of 2.3%. We therefore agree that in 2020 the economy will go better than in 2019. Let's agree on the basics. You do not agree with our assessments, but you accept the institutions, which are 2.3%. 2.3% is much higher than 2%, which we estimate will run the economy in 2019. So we agree that the economy will run better in 2020 with a New Democracy Government than in 2019 or the previous years, which you or you have ruled. You said that the budget was a classic one, to respond to a debate that took place yesterday. I do not know what the class budget is for society as a whole. I understand the opposite. I heard the criticism yesterday: "Drop the HISPIA, but you also reduced it in the upper layers. Not only in the low, and above.' I want to tell you that up to 60,000 euros property has 58.6% of the citizens. What about the other 41.4% doesn't worry about anything? Aren't you concerned about over 60,000 euros at all? Those who have 60% of the real estate, pay 60% of HNVY, aren't you concerned about anything? The right policy is therefore the non-classic policy implemented by this government, but with particular emphasis on the lower and medium-income segments. That is why the reduction is 30%, 20% and 10%. That means proper non-class policy. You're the one who's been conducting a class policy. Is the reduction of the tax on natural persons a class policy? From 22% to 9% to 10,000 - and you said that we are not precise with our election commitments, but that is what we said - which is a scalable tax, has a class mark? Does the reduction in taxation on enterprises from 28% to 24%, which concerns all companies, have a class mark? Because you are accusing us of reducing the tax on businesses from 28% to 24%, did you not say you would do the same in four years? So it bothers you that we do it in one year, but would you like it to be done in four years? I don't understand that argument. You said it the other day, but I see you repeat it. Eventually, your problem is that we have a few profitable businesses or that we have a few large profitable businesses? Because both are counter-problems for your part. If we have a few profitable businesses, you have left us a few profitable businesses with the overtaxation you have exercised. If you are talking about profitable businesses over 7.5 million, you have increased them by 41.77% for your days to the detriment of small and medium-sized enterprises, which have been massively closed in recent years, according to the official declarations of the Ministry of Finance. Fifth delusion. You say: 'We left you a financial area which has not been exploited'. First of all, I have shown you the Minutes from plenary. The Minister of Finance himself then said that there is no financial space. We also found a financial gap. Also, because my very reasonable colleagues have asked me how this financial area has emerged and, indeed, you said that 'the review of growth rate in the first half of the year has covered the gap in the second half' - these are not what I hear - in the first half of the year the growth rate has covered the increased revenues of the second half. Apparently, that's not the reason. To avoid forgetting, the second quarter of 2019, which improved the rate of economic growth: First, the base for the second quarter of 2018 was extremely low. Look at the evidence. Secondly, there is something very important in the economy, expectations and discount. And you know that always happens. But where did we get the space? Mr Loverdos, I will be absolutely precise because you asked me to do so: 869 million increased VAT revenues from June onwards. Improving macroeconomic conditions as well as the economic climate. A further ECU 410 million reduction in the expenditure ceilings which would not have been implemented, so that we also close the part of the expenditure. Thirdly, much better collectivity of the ENPI. What's proving? That when you reduce tax rates, more citizens can cope with their obligations. The result is that while the HPAI declined by 22%, collectivity increased from 80% to 85%, resulting in a loss of revenue that actually does not exist because of the reduction of HPAI. So I answered that question too. Finally, the social state and social policy are not a policy. Like economic policy, it is not an act, an action. It's not the personal income tax. I hear about the middle class you're suddenly getting chopped up. Economic policy is HPAI, it is the natural person tax, it is the income tax of legal persons, it is the reduction of insurance contributions from the second half of 2020, it is a set of measures that constitute economic policy, in particular direction and targeting. So is social policy. Social policy aims at economic efficiency, social justice and the strengthening of available income. And how does that government do it? Six pillars. I'm just saying the key titles, not to abuse. First pillar. The maintenance of the social protection grid through the benefits of the OPEKA: Child benefit. Social income of solidarity, which we legislated in 2014 and you just changed his name. Housing allowance. Public contribution to the protection of the first home, which you have in fact introduced and we have come to improve, so that the citizens can use this tool, because they have not exploited it at all by the summer. Social solidarity allowance. Privileges and preferential cash benefits for disabled persons. School meals and a series of other initiatives. This is a pillar, because I hear you mention sporadicly to some. Second pillar. Actions aimed at addressing the demographic problem. Created policy, first steps - I am not saying that we have resolved this - in this direction: grant of an allowance for every young child, financing programmes for the harmonisation of women's professional and family life, an additional tax exemption for every child, a reduced VAT rate of 13% for infants, children's seats, etc. Third pillar. Reform measures in the social security contribution system. We have spoken about this, and the Minister responsible will be mentioned. Fourth pillar. Social policy, bringing an end to the absurdity of overtaxation. Because that is social policy too. The reduction in HPAI, the introduction of an import tax rate of 9%, the improvement in the framework of debt arrangements to regulate their debts in tax and insurance funds, the exemption from the solidarity levy for all SMEs from 80% or more, the granting of the heating allowance. In fact, today we have heard from the State Secretary responsible an increased allocation of sixty-eight more this year. Because there's a lot of demand. That's a lot of demand!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u178	Sixty-nine and a half we were giving.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u179	You have a doctor in lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u180	Sixty-nine and a half we were giving.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u181	That's very interesting. Thanks for interrupting me. You received it two hundred ten and left it at sixty-five, sixty-four, sixty-eight. Is that your problem, or that you did it from the 200s and you did it at sixty-five?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u182	Why didn't you do it two hundred ten?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u183	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u184	We're giving it forward. Did you give it forward? When did you give it? You gave it to the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u185	In 2020, will you give it forward?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u186	You would have given it in the summer of 2020. We are now giving it to all these households who have not been able to set up heating oil to put heating oil with the allowance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u187	You did not even have it in your budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u188	Yeah, you know we like surprises, and so far we're surprised about you. Non-pillar. And that's part of social protection. With the Minister responsible, yes, recruitment to strengthen the security of the citizen. Because this is part of social policy too. This is therefore the basis of social policy measures. The last observation. Don't repeat what you compare the dividend this year with the dividend last year. As you know very well, the former Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, disproved you the day before yesterday in the House, which said that 'by giving the thirteenth pension the aim was to reduce the dividend'. Watch what you're saying! Come on, come on, come on, come on, come
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u190	I would like to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u191	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u192	Mr Stavura, when we reviewed the Constitution there was a very serious debate about whether it is appropriate for your proposal to be passed on to the Constitution to provide for a minimum guaranteed income or our own proposal to ensure an adequate standard of living. Yours is over, you're the majority. In the part of social policy, to which you have referred, is there a relative line for 2020, though there is, how much is that? Because the debate cannot be theoretical when we discuss the Constitution. It must have a specific application in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u193	Will you answer now, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u195	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u196	It's very simple. The minimum guaranteed income this year had a budget in 2019 of 850 million. He didn't have enough beneficiaries, so this year the expenditure reached 640, that's where it's estimated, and next year we put it at 850...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u197	Is he in there?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u198	Yes, of course. So next year we put it at 850, with the aim of absorbing all 850.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u199	What code, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u200	It is on page 117 of the report, Social Solidarity Income for 2020 forecasts: 850 million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they attend the meeting, after being informed of the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIZELOS", forty students and students and three teachers from the Kastritsi Achaia High School (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Madam President. I've got my honor to see my teammates right now, the kids are watching us all over. I would like to surprise you, ladies and gentlemen, because I am in complete sympathy with Mrs Gerovali. I fully agree with her when she says - how did she say it? I tried to figure it out - that the gears of the current government's policy are in opposite orbit to those of the SYRIZA government. It could not be better formulated by any of us, as compared to how Mrs Gerovali made it. Indeed, they are moving towards a completely opposite orbit, because the budget that we have been discussing these days in the House marks a radical shift in the government's economic policy. Instead of overtaxation and deinvestment, which prevailed over SYRIZA, there is now a strong growth rate of 2.8%, a reduction in unemployment to 15.6% and an increase in all citizens' available income, an increase in income on the one hand through the reduction of tax burdens for employees, retired people, farmers, professionals, businesses and, on the other, through social measures, introduced, of EUR 1.3 billion and, on the other, the Minister mentioned a little earlier. Most importantly, however, this budget provides for what was missing entirely from the last four years: increased investment, so that new and well-paid jobs can finally be created. Comparison with SYRIZA period is catalytic. It is not only what this budget provides for, to compare it, that is all that the New Democracy Government has already done and has only led in a few months' time to a total reversal of the climate. And so that you don't think I'm the one who's a member of the Coupling and who's obviously "damn" my beards, see the elements of the National Bank of Greece just a few days ago, which says in her own report what has really happened since July 2019 that we've been in the government until today. It says - and I put forward the relevant documents - that 'in the third quarter of 2019 for Greek GDP, economic activity has developed stronger than the initially estimated dynamics, mainly based on tourism and the export of goods'. It even mentions specific data on increasing exports of goods by 6.2% per annum in the third quarter of 2019 from 1,9% per annum in the first half of the previous government. And citizens' consumption and fixed capital investments have increased in just a few months. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All these developments are planned for annual growth of more than 2% as a whole in 2019. Do you want me to even compare these first months with the corresponding first months of SYRIZA government in the first half of 2015? I don't think there's any special explanation for that. The Greek citizens remember who played the dice in the country and now they have the nerve to shake the finger. Will you ask, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officers - is the rhetorical question - an apology for the lies you have made in the election of the so-called Armageddon who would come if New Democracy won the elections? Do you want me to remind you that you were afraid of the world that fires are supposed to come, that we're supposed to rip the world off? And instead of what came out of the new government of Mr. Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u203	I know you're annoying, but you're gonna hear it, you don't want to!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u204	In Piraeus, the redundancies...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u205	You had given the green light...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, please. You are all shouting together, and what you are doing is unacceptable. That's a nice picture!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u207	You know, it pleases me for my word to wake up spirits. I'd rather no one listened to me. So let us see what the budget for these first few months provides for and what we have seen so far. What we saw: the lifting of the capital controls which your government had imposed, new jobs through unlocking works which were bogged down because of your delay but also of ideology, recruitment of staff in schools, hospitals and also at our borders, in order to deal with the problem of refugees - immigration, recruitments that will continue throughout the entire four-year programme, further reduction of unemployment, extension of the protection of first residence with better regulation, and finally, additional social dividends to citizens who really need 200 million, which, as you say, we would not do because they were not there. And indeed, ladies and gentlemen, there were no reasons why you had given them all in the election in May 2019 and we could not give anything. These 200 million are nothing but the product of specific legislation mentioned by Mr Stakoras a moment ago, but also the credibility of our country and our economy in these few months of governance. I would like to stress that we are constantly seeking, as we have also promised, to reduce the primary surplus from 3.5% to 2.5%, or even lower, and we believe that we will achieve it in the 2021 budget, because this will create an additional budget of around 3 billion a year, so that 80% of the tax will be paid to reduce, as I said, new investments and new jobs. Here too, allow me a comparison with the surpluses of the previous four years which reached 11.4 billion, money removed by the previous government from society itself and from the market through overtaxation. In order to understand more clearly the size of the excess, this surplus is about four times the amount of the total annual revenues of HISPIA. In other words, an additional ENVIRONMENT every year. But we don't stop there. We are moving on to structural reforms in all areas: education, health, public administration, social policy, infrastructure and transport and the security of citizens. In the agricultural sector, we are emphasising that farmers and our farmers should benefit from the new CAP 21-27. As far as the economy is concerned, we emphasise the fight against tax evasion, the reduction of the paramilitary economy and the broadening of the tax base, which is essential to reduce further the burden on the citizens who are consistent with their obligations. I shall therefore close, Madam President - and thank you for your tolerance - by saying that the 2020 budget lays the foundations for ending overtaxation and deinvestment, which have characterised the period 2016-2019. The Government of New Democracy implements a new, development economic policy. It lays the foundations for a new era in the Greek economy and society. We are voting in favour of the New Democracy Government's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first Vice-President of the Greek Parliament, Nikitas Kaklamanis, is requesting a short-day absence from December 24th to December 29th 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u209	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Kotronis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, what did the world say before the elections? First of all, he told us not to pay themselves. Secondly, he was telling us to reopen jobs, to start construction again, to have growth. And, thirdly, we were told: 'Give us all an attempt to stop the demographics, strengthen the family'. I choose these three of the many things our fellow citizens say when they find us and say: Do all this look in this budget that we shall be voting on in a few days? Of course. This budget gives rise to a certain logic and philosophy. The main priority of the 2020 budget strategy is to increase growth, reduce over-taxation, strengthen investment and the available incomes of all citizens - all citizens, I stress - and support for vulnerable social groups while ensuring that our budgetary objectives are met in the terms of enhanced supervision. Because we must not forget that we are under enhanced supervision. So what do our citizens, our fellow citizens, say? They say they don't pay themselves. Indeed, the fight against tax evasion, the reduction of the paradox and the broadening of the tax base, which is necessary to further reduce the tax burden on the citizens who are consistent with their obligations, is evident within the budget. The strengthening of electronic transactions is proving to be the most effective measure in this direction. To this end, an increased rate of 30% for the statement of revenue tax is being introduced by electronic means of payment. The effort, of course, to tackle tax evasion is not just a matter of the state. It's all about us. It concerns the whole society, and in particular all of us taxpayers, whose mobilisation - all of us - together with the reduction in duty-free rates, which the 2020 budget incorporates, creates the necessary framework for limiting tax evasion and ensuring additional financial space, which can be used in the coming years to further reduce tax burdens and increase social costs. Because, badly lies, from zero to social benefits. You must have some money somewhere. Now, what else did they tell us? We were told to have growth, to strengthen the building. Look, the environment is created through the budget. And it is created by reducing the income tax rate to 9% in natural persons, increasing the tax rate for each child, reducing the insurance contributions of full-time workers by about one basis point. In addition, enterprises plan to reduce the income tax on legal persons from 28% to 24% and, indeed, since the year 2019, to reduce profits tax, to be distributed in 2020, from 10% to 5%. And we are now coming to building activity. The suspension of VAT on new buildings for three years and the value added tax on real estate is known. It is known that part of the expenditure on renovation is repaid for energy, for aesthetic and functional upgrading of buildings, where, of course, they are paid off by electronic means of payment. Indeed, these are an important measure to strengthen the professions that are located and moving around the building and which have been hit very hard over the years. I'm coming to the polling room now. Is it simple? No, it's too hard. It is the most serious problem our country will face in the coming years. It's a problem that can't be solved with an axe. It is a problem to which we must take place and with systematic measures to be able to deal with it, having the desired effect. The government, however, also starts through this budget, it seems to start this effort, to hit exactly what is called "subgenitality" by strengthening the family. It is therefore well known to everyone that EUR 2 000 is allocated to every child born after 1 January 2020, with extremely extensive income criteria covering at least 90% of the families. The migration into the low VAT rate of infants is also known. In addition, I must stress that the child's benefits are maintained, the social solidarity benefits, the extension for the protection of first residence, the privileged benefits for people with disabilities, the social dividend. I could say a lot of things, but I think that each one of us should highlight one particular of what he has identified. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that I can return to my constituency on Christmas and say that, yes, I voted for a budget that is rational, developmental, socially sensitive, a budget for the whole society, which prescribes a new path, ending the under-performance of recent years, which creates a favourable development environment, restructures the Public Investment Programme, broadens the tax base, a measurable budget - and that matters - which actually puts Greece in a new era. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u211	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, and you have been consistent in your time. Now Mrs Rapti has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the most important legislation of the year, the 2020 budget. I'm not going to go into the number analysis, which often get tired of those watching us. Society has spent a period of prosperation of numbers in the past, without prospering itself. I shall therefore speak of key budget-related policies that change the income prospects of thousands of our fellow citizens, of projects that have not been made for years and are now the raw material for the most development budget in recent years. Politics first: We covered every budget gap that SYRIZA left for 2019. We have covered this with over-performance targets and not with additional measures. We create predictable conditions for the market and work so that each Greek, private and business can design. The austerity policy and measures after each Eurogroup are now a past. Politics two: We reduced the company tax to 24% on a path to 20%. Do you know what this looks like? Supporting entrepreneurship, fewer businesses in tax havens outside the borders, jobs for our children, for what is left, but also for what we want to bring back. At the same time we are opening up the debate on reducing non-wage costs, i.e. more money in citizens' pockets, increasing consumption, a more stable economy. Political third: We reduced the ENPHA to 30%. Only we have said so, and we have done so, proving that the budget mix fits every social policy, as long as it is in the right analogy. We relieve thousands of Greeks with fewer taxes and without creating budgetary gaps. On the contrary, we make room for reasonable surpluses that go to low incomes and middle-class, which gradually began to breathe. Politics Fourth: We have repaid the country's expensive loans earlier. This means the benefit of tens of millions of euros in interest, savings that can now go to health, education, safety. We have stopped the hostage of the economy by credit lines and funding packages. The country is borrowing even at a negative interest rate, which means cheap money, which can be made investments, growth and better jobs. Fifthly, we have freed all the major investment in the country. The names: "Greek", "Cassiopi", "Afantou", "Elouda", are not just names, mean a billion-euro flow, new investments from domestic entrepreneurship, thousands of jobs in Greece, new scientists coming back. We're kicking Greece out of the last positions. We start the Brain gain by changing Greece. Political Sixth: We have launched a plan for the bank's red loans. The country supported the financial system, and it is time to support the country, with cheap money in business, with a new policy, with a new logical credit expansion, with household support, with a human face to the thousands of debtors. Loan rates must reach the low levels of the other countries of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget has an excellent balance between economic efficiency and social justice. The government managed within a few months to put the country on a spiral of economic growth, to turn the business climate into a record, to become an investment destination, and a country with a stable prospect, to progress firmly and build bases, not to live a new adventure. One thing will be read very clearly in the budget that we are discussing today: how we turn Greece into a country that works, produces, develops, and for the first time hopes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u213	Me too, my colleague. Mr Marcos has the floor from SYRIZA now. Come on, Mr. Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Madam President, and your resistance to the circumvention of the programme. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget that is being voted on today has an historic originality: it is the first draft budget that we have been exempt from the narrow budgetary committee, and one would say that the International Monetary Fund is the same. It is, then, the first Memorandum outside the Memorandum. Creation of health expenditure, reduction of welfare expenditure, flexible working relationships in education and the freezing of its costs, tax exemptions for the few, widening the tax base for many, over-estimated forecasts, shrinking the social state and creative accounting. The main point of view is that since big companies will gain more profits, workers will benefit, as if we lived in an angel society. I want to make a brief revert to the past, about how we got here. The outbreak of the international financial crisis in 2008 accelerated developments in Greece due to the systematic weaknesses of the Greek economy. This results from the fact that the country lost 25% of its GDP without discussing a similar degree of deterioration in the other euro area peripheral countries. They retained the reflexes of conservative European policies, economists and economic policy. The fiscal austerity has emerged in our country in a dominant choice of budgetary adjustment. This was the case in Greece between 2010 and 2015. The plan was to maintain the conditions for the reproduction of capital, in terms of sufficient prevalence in the backs of the Greek people, a plan which you, the gentlemen of the government, have held "the minds of the gentleman", as the lawyers say. When SYRIZA took over power in January 2015, the country owed a loan amounting to 7,000,000 euros. The trap had been set from the beginning, as everyone and former Prime Minister Antonis Samaras himself have confessed. According to the mandate given to us by the Greek people for the second time, we tried to limit the intrinsic inequalities and discrimination created by the existing policy of austerity, through an alternative strategy that would create space for the support of the social state and the middle and low strata. And we did this to an important extent, with countermeasures and tough negotiation, for which you blamed us. Our choice has yielded fruit, after it has devastated morality with collectively beneficialness. Support for society, the middle and low strata, stimulated the economy, boosted consumption and increased growth rates. The reflection of your ideological stereotypes is allowing you to enjoy the recipes of the past. You apply the same recipe that has brought us into bankruptcy, the same care for the profitability of large businesses, the deterioration of labour, the maintenance of the framework for inter-information and banks and the intensification of the public sector. You have already chosen the way to slander our public universities as centres of lawlessness and our children studying them as criminals. You have already chosen the path of creative accounting that maintained the past's development and fiscal bubble. Really when are you going to tell us what went wrong during your ruling period? Don't you ever have to confess? Of course, a draft state budget cannot be politically neutral. It is a tool that provides goals and your collective editor gives him a clearly defined direction. Your draft budget is clear in its direction. This will be provided by your final, political choices, the concession of insurance, education, the care of the so-called angels I mentioned at the beginning. We in public education have chosen priority in permanent recruitment, you in flexible and flexible working relationships and the development of conditions that are completely undeclared for children and competitive between teachers. We have chosen the support of the public health system by providing a vital association of thousands of entrepreneurial recruits. We gave access to a million and a half uninsured people, which you had thrown out of the National Health System. Our enhanced care for the ESS explains why, in fact, it is our idealism. With the SYRIZA Government, we would have another brave increase in the budget for welfare, health and education, even closer to the European average that we have left behind. But that is not the case with you. Despite the improvement in the economy, which we have delivered, you appear negative in the expansion of the social state. If, indeed, we note that it speaks at one point of the draft budget, to save EUR 500,000 from the budgets of the ministries, we have only one more attempt at creative accounting. You seem to be giving away from another point of view of the budget, as you do with the tax exemptions on large companies, while at the same time extending the tax base for small incomes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Of course, you will systematically and today adopt the claim to support the lower layers, as New Democracy has always had in its care. So - I say - since you have been in power for so many years and are constantly defending the lower layers, why have we no longer reached a society of equality and freedom from this exploiting capitalist system? However, your liberal vigilance has already begun to degrade. Citizens are waiting immediately to see better their lives from you. It will not suffice the hallucinations of the nine - night television news, nor will the myths of Excavations. In fact, history has proved that your class bias and obsolete perceptions have failed on a global scale. I'll say it again. It's like a gambled god - to paraphrase Dekart - to have inherently connected moral and fair to the benefit. The path to removing inequalities is the only way to deliver results. Only if the economic benefits of globalisation are distributed fairly, then the economic system can avoid overcrowding. It is the path proposed by the alternative strategy of SYRIZA and other forces across Europe that gradually acquire voice and influence. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time since this Chamber, and many times I have attended the budget meetings. The oldest you know better than me that we are all coming with a well-prepared text on the basis of our views, we are doing so and in the end we are voting. Isn't that what this is about? But what's left of it? History remains, and in history it will be recorded what has been said and what has been voted on. It is clear that with great faith we are voting against this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Drasakis has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr Markopoulos from New Democracy. Here, Mr Drasakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the latest revised ELSTAT figures showed, in the second quarter of 2019 the economy grew at a rate of 2.8%. That is the objective of the 2020 budget. This performance not only exposes, I would say, the destruction of the New Democracy when it was opposition, but it now creates a precedent, which the new government is called upon to catch and - if possible - to overcome, which I personally, Minister, wish it would happen, but I must say that it will not be easy with your policy. Either way, we can talk about a change of circumstances. While we have received from Mr Samaras' government a country in stagnation and stagnation, the recovery of the economy that we have achieved and the stocks that we have created show considerable potential. Finally, there is something to share and it is the first time that I remember, that a government receives from the previous no-burned land or empty funds, but strong reserves as a chest of our country against external risks and threats that may exist. That is the main contradiction in the budget. While there are greater possibilities today, this government is cutting rather than expanding what we in difficult conditions have been able to do in favour of the weak. The question has been raised by many Members and it is reasonable that the economy goes better and, as you say, it will go even better, why not make more brave and fairer tax reliefs? Why don't you increase health expenditure? Why, on the contrary, are you making cuts in welfare expenditure after four and a half years of continuous growth? Why do you abolish the thirteenth pension? Why are you cutting off the scientists' employment programmes and much more? The answer, obviously, lies at the coordinates of your policy, your commitments to strong interests that support you, in errors arising from them. I shall refer to some of them. The government's first mistake, in my opinion, has not reduced the primary surplus already since 2020. I heard Mr Stakoura's remarks, but if there was no account ready, it could be created, Minister. What we planned was that the primary surplus would be typically 3.5%, but in practice a percentage point would return to the public in various ways, so it would be as if we had a surplus of 2.5%. This would provide a wider financial space for both alleviations and social policy, but also for economic growth. You didn't like that way. Was there also a second option, should the government request the reduction of surpluses from 2020 on what grounds? The argument that the reduction in interest rates internationally has reduced the necessary resources for the payment of interest. This 3.5% has to do with the need to pay interest from the surplus and not by borrowing. So today, as the budget still shows, the consolidated interest in 2020 is estimated at around EUR 5 billion, when the surplus is EUR 7.5 billion. That means we have an excess of about 2.3 billion. It was therefore realistic that surplus and 2020 should be reduced to 2.5%, without any problem with the payment of interest. So this is not a favor that we would call for, nor a contractual condition that we would violate, but a change because there is internationally this new overcapacity and because the stocks we have created allow for the reduction of interest rates. However, since this was not the case, the most notorious reductions - which, in the way we all know, were mentioned in the election - remained invisible to the vast majority of the population. The overall tax burden is not reduced, but increased and redistributed. Here are the budget figures. In 2019, the State’s total tax revenues were EUR 51 billion 392 million. How much is planned for 2020? There are 52 billion 165 million, i.e. an increase in the tax burden by EUR 773 million. Therefore, when the government talks about tax relief, it seems that it means not reducing the tax burden in fact, but the most unfair distribution of tax burdens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need your tolerance for a minute, Madam President. The second mistake I would say is worse than the first one, and it concerns the unequal and unfair way in which these limited tax reductions are distributed. You had to split 1,2 billion and what did you do? You committed the 700 million for one single use, to a reduction in the rate of profit and dividends tax. Here is a matter of priorities and I would like to ask directly: do you think that, with these wounds open to us in society, the first priority was to further reduce taxation on dividends by 50%, when you cannot give a reduction, a reduction of 1% in social groups with major problems? Do you really think that foreign investment will come just because the rates will be reduced? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can I have your tolerance for a minute or two, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u217	Wait a minute, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u218	The third mistake is precisely that, i.e. the illusion that tax reductions will attract investment from abroad. If that were the case, the investments would call on all the neighbouring countries of the Balkans, which have very low rates. The problem, however, is more complex. After all, you have just given this tax relief, what did BSE say? He presented a new far-reaching list of new demands that would depend, as he said, on an investment growth, first in order to declining wages. The fourth mistake - and I conclude - is the abandonment of the totalitarian national development strategy launched by the previous SYRIZA government. So the gap in the development strategy that the new government has is covered by fragmentary measures, customer regulations - as we have seen in the development bill and others - and the logic of the past. At a time of technological leap and climate change, the government's policy is completely different from the principles of sustainability and social justice. It seeks answers to cheap labour, environmental degradation, and not the use of knowledge and the upgrading of the capacity of the economy. While, in fact, the economy is able to move upwards, the government's policy creates uncertainties and serious risks. For these reasons we strongly disagree with the policy pursued and vote against the budget for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Markopoulos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I had a dream. I dreamed that we would have a consensus-making opposition, which, on a constructive basis, with proposals, with composition where it could, perhaps even disagree on individual requests, try to understand what the result of the recent national elections was. It would at least try at this first stage of governance to say: 'Let us give a margin, say two - three good things that exist, to support some things that are soothing for the Greek people, some tax reliefs', to be at least a few tons a little lower. I'm disappointed. What have we heard these two days? We've heard of the Prespecies Agreement. Is there any relevance, any connection to the debate that is taking place on the Greek economy? We even heard the police domination, the Greek-Turkish. All these approaches are interesting, but I would remind everyone who is a little out of the question, that our issue is the 2020 budget, the boulevard about how our country will go ahead. I have heard Mr Pappa who said that the New Democracy sees the world backwards because we are neoliberal, as he claims. We've heard more. They told us about an outdated development model and I really fall off the clouds. I have been following the economic, above all, a report by Mr Drasakis, who spoke before, as a minister responsible for development and the economy, for years. Who are they talking to? Let's see who's talking. They are the ones who have been delaying the Greek for four and a half years. The only thing we haven't been told about the investment in the Greek is that there is tyrannosaurus under the airway and that the Archaeological Service should enter to find out if there is tyrannosaurus. May I remind Mrs. Connordos and all these funny jokes, the weird ones that played all these time in the government that SYRIZA was in? Are you talking about blocking entrepreneurship? Are you guys talking about taxing insurance for the freelance professionals, who broke down political engineers, lawyers? Are you talking about not having a single production investment brought to the country? I remember every three and a little while when they wanted to present something, they said with a monotonous gum about the investment of PHILIP MORRIS, of the company PAPASTRATOS in our country, forgetting that the government of Samaras - Venizelos with the Minister for Rural Development brought Mr Tsautaris to him. Every three and a little ribbon for that investment. Tell me - I challenge you - a great investment that has come over your days. Aren't you the ones who celebrated 'FRAPORT' and how much the country, where airports are moving forward and becoming private? Let me remind you of the tweet of your leader, Alexis Tsipras, when he was chief of the opposition officer in 2014, over Corfu airport that said: "They will not pass. Crime of privatization of airports’. And you're celebrating about this? I'm passing through, it was a success again of the previous government! You are talking about those days that you have led to the "PITSOS" company, which was sent by workers agonizing messages by letters to their former Prime Minister Mr. Tsipras and did nothing to talk to them. "MARINOPOULOS" do you remember her? It was you who had difficulty with 'ELDORADO GOLD'. You brought enclosures to "ELECTRONIC ATHENS", to "PHOKA". Shall I go down? May I remind you of your ideological approach to 'COSCO'? With "ELDORADO GOLD" you were, Mr Skourletis, I remember your attitude. You were a competent minister. I would expect Mr Drasakis to tell us, who spoke just now about this famous development bank. I remember her. She was announced. It was the parallel banking system we were told. I remember the Development Bank, Minister, that they had announced it since 2015. I tried and entered the site a few days ago. Just before SYRIZA lost power, he didn't even have a site! The development bank, the tool that will get in and do a job! Did you talk before yelling about the banks and the redundancies? Haven't you opened all these margins? With these administrations, you didn't cooperate? Are you talking about real estate auctions when these streets actually opened in your own context? Your former comrades, Mr. Lafazanis, were yelling and he went every three and a little to defend lost houses. The New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is the really pro-investment, whether you like it or not you like it - we like it and it is so - a party in the country. We are indeed the people's party to the people, exercising popular policies and folk policies, we are implementing the proposal made by Minister Stagioras and I congratulate him on that. Weren't the tax evasions in HISA? Oh, you said you'd cut him down. What did you finally do? Tell us what you've been doing for four and a half years? When did you reduce HISBIA? This is where the ENPIA was reduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u221	Watch the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u222	Mercy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u223	What kind of mercy?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in plenary. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u225	You've downloaded 60 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u226	There was a very nice book by Christos Pasalaris. The title was "The truth and let it hurt." You'll hear the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u227	Just watch the House to know the debate that took place before you on the reduction of the ENPIA. We agreed that you reduced it to 60 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u228	Okay, that's okay. We did it. You didn't do it, Mr. Chakalote. You did the class policy of benefits.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u229	Mr Colleague, continue your speech, because you will not take any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u230	Tell me, isn't the people's interventions that are being made in reducing taxation by our government anyway? Will you vote for them? For example, reductions in insurance contributions for full-time employees will you vote on them? I suppose you want a full-time job. You do not want Mrs Ahtsoglou's'mini jobs' just to reduce 4%, 5% of the unemployment rate! We're talking about full-time. What did you bring? ‘Mini Jobs’ of EUR 350. That's the truth. This is the economy you delivered. Will you vote on social and development measures of EUR 1.2 billion? For the purchase of real estate - where are the legacy years of growth in our country - do you disagree? So you don't want the building that he gave years and years of work to work? Whether you want it or not, you've increased insurance contributions, we're reducing them. You cut pensions and CSR, we increase them. You're the one who kicks out the investments, we're the ones who bring them. I have heard a number of things about reducing the primary surpluses. Look at you, the New Democracy is a serious, urban party, which, when it negotiates, makes it under the conditions it must be. We, Mr Tsakalote, did not say 'asset' to Mr Varoufakis. Today, really, you call him? And I give you the time to answer. Is Mr Varoufakis 'asset'?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u231	Didn't you say in the election that you're going to reduce the surpluses?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u232	Mr Colleague, continue your speech and do not address colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u233	What journalist are you? What are you guys watching in the conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u234	I've been financially watching for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u235	It does not appear from your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u236	But did you from your 'asset' cost us how many billions of euros? And with your tolerance and vote Mr. Varoufakis did all these politics - I don't want to name what he did. You raised your hand, Mr. Tsakalotes, and said "yes" to all these amazing things that were done in the Greek economy and which they cost. Then you turned to realism. How much did all this cost? Will you tell us? So we, and for the primary surpluses, will go to serious negotiations. We give positive examples of writing, Europe listens to us...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u237	You should have said it before the election.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u238	I understand you're rooted, Mr. Chakatte. You'll hear it, drink it all!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Comrade, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u240	The primary surpluses will be reduced, because we are the government of seriousness.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u241	Before the elections, you said you were going to negotiate, not that you'd cut them down...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u242	Let... Mr. Stavros is not Mr. Varoufakis. Make the comparison and you will understand why it will succeed, because the government will do that. We're making a serious policy, we're not the speech party. It is not the 'blue-blue' government, it is the government of effort, the government that will actually make another dream reality, the reduction of primary surpluses and the country will develop it where it needs to be developed. I invite you to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u243	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u244	Here you go, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u245	I just need 30 seconds, thanks. Mr Marcopoulou, I must remind you, first of all, that Mr Varoufakis is missing. It's good to say things when someone's answering us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u246	If he wanted to, he'd be here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u247	I am very afraid that you are doing just because you are afraid of his answers, but you will hear it because I am here as a Parliamentary representative of Mera25. To you, in your party, Mr. Markopoulos, Mr. Staruras takes the decisions on how a negotiation will take? In your party, are the ministers doing what they want? Do you have a political leader in your party? I believe, so far, that in parliamentary democracy the Prime Ministers are making the crucial decisions. That's the one. Secondly, we know very well why Mr Varoufakis' negotiation has hurt you, because he has been the only Minister of Finance for eleven years, who has not cut 1 euro from the salaries of civil servants, 1 euro from pensions. Because he is the only Minister from all the Ministers for Economy, 11 years ago, who has never signed a Memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u248	It's interesting to say Mera25 about SYRIZA...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Colleague, please. I will repeat that we are in plenary, we are not in the cafeteria, and that is not good. I'm telling you, it's an image that all of Greece is seeing at the moment. I will give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Hatzidakis, for ten minutes. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u250	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will read what I have to say in order to stay as close as possible in time. I have a lot to say, I think it is of some importance, regardless of whether you agree or disagree with what we are going to do in 2020. I'm not good at reading, I'm warning you, but I can't do anything different. The 2020 budget seals the change of page made by Greece on July 7, a change of page, because the economic model of distribution of poverty has been abandoned and we go to it with strong growth, opportunities for everyone. On the same line, the strong, but also sustainable, of green development is the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. I would like to present to you the design we have for 2020, so that we can contribute to the overall effort, which is moving on three axes. Axle one, multidimensional international energy policy. The first point concerns the EastMed gas pipeline, Israel - Cyprus - Greece - Europe. The commitment of Greece, Cyprus and Israel to progress is firm. Mr. Erdogan has his own perception, but we have ours. The commitment of Greece, Cyprus and Israel to the progress of the electricity interconnection between the three countries is also firm. The lifting of the isolation of Cyprus at the level of electricity is a priority for us and I have the impression that this House as a whole agrees. We have recently signed the intergovernmental agreement setting out the IGB gas pipeline in Greece - Bulgaria. The aim of all of us is to put it into operation in two, not more than three years. We unlock another project, the underground gas storage in Kavala, so that the relevant contest can proceed through TIADE. We support a project of strategic importance for the country, such as the floating liquefied natural gas station in Alexandroupolis, the FSRU in Alexandroupolis, which the government actively supports. Finally, we share the view that Greece is not defined in relation to the exploration of hydrocarbons. It moves forward decisively in its programme for the extraction of hydrocarbons with respect to the environment, but of course taking into account the national interest at all times. Axle two, structural changes. We have a wide range of structural changes before us. I'm starting with PPC. As you know from the measures we took in the summer, we kept PPC upright and helped her to take her nose out of the water, with the corresponding certificate now from the vowed auditor, with her creditworthiness to upgrade, with the price of the share between May and December being tripled, while the bill we passed recently, in which we abolished the permanentity of new entrants and managers, we give her the opportunity to stand with claims in the competitive environment. Today PPC's five-year business plan was announced. I would stress three main points of the plan. I'll talk a little later. Firstly, cooperation with the private sector, as we have an opening of PPC to renewable energy sources, which requires - in order to support the corresponding financially - a courageous opening that will follow Greek and foreign investors and that is why we will soon be making announcements from the company itself. Secondly, the privatisation of the TEND by 49%, with strong minority rights, to attract not only institutional but also strategic investors. This will be a cash injection for PPC as well as a modernisation of the TEN itself. Thirdly, the corporate transformation of PPC, by reducing the staff by four thousand overall and its costs, by means of self-financed, according to OTE standards, voluntary costs and opening up to digital technologies and electricity and ultimately turning to profitability. PPC will stop being a company that asks consumers to put every three and a little hand in the pocket. Secondly, we are further privatising IPTO in 2020, which SYRIZA has already privatised at 49%, as did DESFA at 66% - SYRIZA - but today it is for us that we want to privatise him further. Thirdly, we are immediately promoting and without delay - the process has started - the transformation of the PPA by privatising 100% in two separate packages, 'DEP Infrastructure' and 'DDP Marketing'. Fourthly, in the context of structural changes, we are always simplifying and speeding up environmental authorisations, with our bill at the beginning of the year, a large environmental bill. Amongst other things, in this draft law we will activate the institution of certified assessors, with the adoption of a presidential decree at the same time and we will make use of the electronic environmental register further, so that the environmental licensing process is fully, not theoretically but truly digitised. Fifth, in LARCO, we are immediately moving, starting in January, a solution on the basis of the 2014 European Commission's decision, a solid legal, attractive investment solution for workers. In any case today, beyond all imagination, cannot continue this because LARCO owes itself 80% of the debts of the high voltage as a whole. It is completely violating environmental legislation, but it also violates the rules on the health and safety of workers themselves, which is why, unfortunately, we have had two fatal accidents in the last four months. Sixthly, in November we exceeded almost all the regional units in the register, which are now in progress, the technical objective set by the 55% contractors. So the situation goes well. And we continue to manage the register with the necessary scientific staff, doing the e-Business register that will make it easier for the citizen to cooperate with the TEI to implement the institution of the accredited engineer, which will contribute to the rapid promotion of the register. Seventhly, the programme for the preparation of local spatial plans is at the final stage of preparation, so as to make it clear and with legal certainty where and what is allowed to be put into place. Eighth, in the first half of 2020, several digital infrastructures are also being activated. Such is the electronic identity of buildings, which had been voted on since 2014, but also the digital land bank that will soon be legislated. Together, these two initiatives will help prevent arbitrary construction and put urban development in order. So the first axis is international energy infrastructure. Secondly, structural changes. And thirdly, it is the transition to a green development model. This policy is already described in the new national energy and climate plan, which provides for green energy investments of EUR 44 billion by 2030. I begin with the defoliation, which we are implementing even faster than our original design. In other words, according to the operational plan announced today by PPC, all the installed lignite plants, other than one, of Ptolemais 5, will be closed to 2023. This will, of course, be done with a parallel draft of a fair transition for workers and lignite areas. It will soon be set up, within the month, I would like to believe, an interministerial committee that coordinates the whole project. Secondly, we are preparing the third cycle of 'Housing home' for 2020, but we are going beyond that. With the ESRB, which we have presented, we are planning to provide energy savings of three and a half times more than is being given today and this will be done in addition to direct payments, with loans that are friendly to borrowers, from banks and tax rebates. This will increase the value of the property of the Greek family, which is a deep folk policy. Thirdly, in addition to lignification and energy savings, we are going dynamically and in cooperation with IPTO, the electrical connections of our islands. Our goal is for all the islands to be interconnected by 2030. However, the electrical interconnection of the largest island, Crete by 2023, with Crete by 2023, will have taken precedence - I am not only talking about "Crete 1", which will be completed this year - and the Cyclades by 2024. Fourthly, we are bringing the three co-legislative ministries - economics, transport and the environment - a bill on the basis of what is happening in Europe in the next few months. Our goal is in 2030 one in three new cars to be electric. Fifthly, we are also improving the problematic functioning of the management bodies of protected areas. We are working on legislative intervention, in line with modern European practices. The unique biodiversity of our country must be effectively protected and with activities such as ecotourism, protected areas becoming sustainable development standards. Our aim is to strengthen the protection of these critical areas, of the NATURA regions, but on the basis of good European practices. Sixth, waste management we update in 2020 the national waste management plan, with emphasis on recycling and landfill reduction. We are focusing on plastic pollution, which is why we are immediately incorporating the European directive on the withdrawal of disposable plastics by the end of the first semester. After all, the proper management of waste is above all a matter of culture and a national patronage, I say. Seventhly, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry for overcoming the time, but I have tried not to gloat - I am closing with our forests, for which we are running to absorb EUR 250 million of untapped funds left by the previous government. It has not been absorbed or compatible with one euro and is for forest protection and reafforestation. At the same time we are planning a national reafforestation plan so that we can become a modern European country in this area too. Ladies and gentlemen, at the very short time, which I think I finally had, I presented the most important of the changes that we want to promote in 2020 only. As you can see, we are aspiring within a year and a half to do at the Ministry of the Environment and Energy things that have not been done for many years to contribute to the government's effort, as reflected in this budget for strong and sustainable green development. We won't succeed as magic. We'll need a plan and a hard job. But I'm sure we'll make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 6th Kozani High School (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Marios Katsis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Madam President. After the merciful position of the Minister for the Environment, I would like to make a point to him. Mr. Minister, you have not been placed in the criticism of the MP, Mr. Markopoulos, because you have not yet taken the tyrannosaurus out of the Greek and five months after the elections you have not yet put bulldozers! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Answer your colleague, who asked questions from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u253	You have a sense of humor, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u254	I have a lot of sense of humor. You guys see how much you got. So, after the fiasco of the government which subsidises 'MAKELEIO', 'MEMBER HOUR' and bet papers, we came to the debate this morning - and after you had already screwed it up - we could convince you of that. To reinstate our joint ministerial decision in June, which solves all these issues arising from the changes that you have made. Because you made changes in October and found them in front of you. On this basis, we ask you not to consider suspending the programme for strengthening the press, because it is a matter of armoring and defending democracy itself. Now, it is up to you, you have an absolute responsibility and we expect the initiatives, to solve these problems, which you yourself, I repeat, have created with these changes that you have made last October. As far as the budget is concerned, you know, ladies and gentlemen, however well-designed it is a lie, no matter what in the middle of the night, the truth comes to the surface at some point. Unfortunately, for the Government of New Democracy, the time of truth has come early. It is a constant success of the government's MPs that you implement your election commitments. This is an endless lie, which is revealed by the statement of the budget and soon - we do not say so - the citizens will see it in their pockets and in their daily lives. Let us remember what you said last year, this time, a year ago in the 2019 budget. You said we'd have a fourth memorandum, that 3.5% primary surplus is unacceptablely high. Really, can you say that this year? Can you tell today? I don't think so. In practice, you are perhaps the only government you dared not speak of burnt earth. Receive the country outside of memorials, in markets, with growth of 2.8% at the end of the second quarter of 2019 and full of 37 billion funds, as cash buffer. As well as lying about the state of the economy, New Democracy, as opposition, has made a great deal of effort. Where is the reduction in the target of 3.5% of your primary surplus, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population? The aim of the budget you brought back 3.5% is. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You flew a project that we proposed to you in the trash, to go 5 or 5.5 billion from the pillow, so that every year we have 2.5% of the target, to save 1% of GDP, i.e. 2 billion reductions from the Greek economy. You don't want it. Where's the 4% growth you said you'd bring? You yourself are talking about 2.8% in 2020 and if that comes too. Where is the increase in the minimum wage to twice that of growth, which you were calling election? What we have seen so far from you is the abolition of the sectoral conventions that the SYRIZA government had achieved. That means a reduction in wages and redundancies. You already see what happens to the banks and Piraeus Bank that fired twenty-four people. Where are the shocking tax evasions that would increase the income of the citizens? Is it a reduction in the rate of 9% to 10,000, which, if you combine with the increase in the insurance contributions you have announced, and with the obligation of all free professionals for 30% of the costs of plastic money, at the end of the fund, from the same pocket, will be charges rather than reductions? Is the reduction from 28% to 24% in the business sector, where around 80% of the total will be fruited by 2.5% of all enterprises? Did you raise incomes, did you really explain to small and medium-sized enterprises what it means that from the EUR 780 million that fell on the market last year through the social dividend, this year will fall 175, though? The shops have a lot of reduced movement compared with last year. The people in the province's villages who are struggling to get through and with the dividend that SYRIZA gave to Christmas and shut some holes, is the truth, what do you have to say? Did you tell the pensioners that they wouldn't get the thirteenth pension that SYRIZA brought back? It's 900m euros minus. You were given 45% of the election and you wrote them in the oldest of your shoes. Have you warned the citizens that if you become a government you intend to bring a large increase in PPC tariffs? Did you say that the EUR 2,000 for every child you give will be cut from the monthly allowance for A21 or from other allowances that you reduce? In fact, you are making a hard class policy in favour of the few, but by increasing inequalities. You prioritise the profits of the very large companies and dividends, the tax on the UAE, the tax reduction on UCITS, rather than lowering the tax advance to 50% for businesses and free traders, abolish the solidarity levy of up to EUR 20,000 and finish from there and upwards, reduce the HPAI 50% by weight for small and medium-sized property, reduce VAT from 13% to 11%. None of this is your choice. It's a political plan and you don't choose it. That is all, that is, that we have announced that we will do from the budget area that you have inherited, and now you come and legislate 1.2 billion. But you want to give it to your friends, to the powerful, to the parasitic branches, without any commitment apparently whether they will reinvest them. I now come to the issues of the Ministry of Digital Governance on media issues. For the time being, we are seeing the ministers move only on reports of ideas. The Ministry took many structures and institutions from other ministries and legislated a supercentric bureaucratic system. It was so sketchy - we said this in August - that you have already put in numerous amendments and you are constantly changing responsibilities, structures and procedures. I have heard the Minister, Mr Georgioda, on matters of public procedure simplification and he has not told us anything substantial. In fact, Ministers, five months later you have not issued a new organizational chart at the Ministry, violating the timetable you themselves set. Nobody put it on you. Result? You have also ruined what you found from the previous political leadership, namely the digital handling of documents within the Ministry. Listen, Minister for Digital Transformation has received a digital transfer of documents to the Ministry itself and turned it into manual, into manual, pen, pen and paper. Is that how you're really going to do digital transformation across the public? Is that your plan? I wish! I do not see it, Mr Ministers, but neither do you see the market that you are supposed to have as a flag. Everyone sees you don't make any new works, but you're also canceling some of what you found ready from the government of SYRIZA. Mr. Pierracakis has rushed to abolish the 2016-2021 national digital strategy, which unleashed funds. Nevertheless, in a decision on an electronic ticket to the CBELs, you are still invoking our own national digital strategy. We wait five months to see the 'Bible' and consult on it. You said you shared her. Now you're telling us she's not ready. We don't know what's going on. What is the timetable for the introduction of the "book"? Will you carry out an assessment of the national digital strategy, as planned, in order to incorporate the conclusions in the ‘book’ and follow up the country's digital policy? I'm afraid in your attempt to show work, you've lost the ball. And it asks us why there are no elements of the General Secretariat's budget this year, which have been directly passed on to the Prime Minister. If we put down the figures, we will see that on the regular budget side, the EUR 73.5 million we see in relation to last year is mainly due to the transfer of general stamps to and from the Ministry. Also, a project that unleashed after ten years, “ZEYXIS 2” increases by EUR 67 million the budget of the General Secretariat for Information Systems. Of course, you took the project from the Information Society, you give it to the GSP, so the changes in the budget, but I see you return it, to do recurring, because there is no management capacity in the GSP to run the project. As far as the Public Investment Programme is concerned, we are observing the continuation of the growing trend in the latest patterns due to projects launched by the SYRIZA Government, because you have not yet announced any, as is the electronic document handling system. Of course I would like to ask why you set up a digital signature committee for a mature project? How many hundred and fifty thousand digital signatures have you shared? The project must be delivered in May 2020. Are you going to catch up? In conclusion, this budget, apart from being unfair, will not come out at the end of next year, because the assumptions you make are made. I wish we were disproved, but, unfortunately, I predict that you will come this time and because you have not taken up the numbers, you will have a reason to drastically reduce expenditure at a huge social cost. That is why we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Loading from New Democracy is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with the 2020 budget the Government of Mr Mitsotakis once again shows that it remains faithful to its commitments. The basic objectives set by this government and for which it committed itself to the Greek people were: firstly, the reduction of tax burdens; secondly, the stimulation of economic activity to increase everyone's income; and thirdly, social welfare for all, of course, and for the weakest. These objectives therefore serve this budget submitted by the Government for approval. The reduction in tax burdens was one of the important commitments of our government, and this budget is being implemented. There are tax reductions for natural persons and for businesses, but this does not mean reduced revenues, no reduction in expenditure, and in particular social expenditure. It marks the country's necessary shift to a dynamic development model without fearlessness and narrow-mindedness, because narrow-minded was the whole approach of overtaxation to earn revenue. We must, ladies and gentlemen, understand that the State's revenues will be increased if economic activity within the country is stimulated, so that citizens' incomes can be increased and the tax base will be increased accordingly. It is a deadlock to base the state's revenue on excessive taxes and contributions, literally releasing the businessman and the seller. The increased primary surpluses of 2018 and 2019 have been based in many respects on overtaxation. This overtaxation, however, leads to a dead end, because it shrinks the economy. The reduction in taxes, on the other hand, contributes to boosting the economy, leaves room for small professionals, entrepreneurs and larger firms to invest their income in growth and in jobs. Besides, overtaxation did not actually lead to revenues. The State's income therefore needs to come from, not from an increase in the rates of taxation but also from an increase in the income of citizens, and therefore also from an increase in the tax base. Greater total income for citizens means that we can achieve the same and higher revenues for the state with reduced rates of taxation, and this clearly proves it and the reduction of the HPAI that we have achieved. The budget includes key measures to stimulate the economy. I will focus on the planned increase in the EIP, which has multiplier potential, because the co-financed strand can activate resources through the EIP through the European Union. We are investing ahead of national PPP resources. Projects are being promoted and implemented, the absorption is increasing, and we therefore receive a higher amount of Community participation. The stimulation of the economy also contributes to the stability climate that the government is developing through stable reformist steps, a consequence of its commitments, state modernisation and a serious international presence. This climate of stability also creates confidence in the professional and small businessmen to dare development steps in his professional activity. Of course, this climate of stability also creates confidence in larger businesses to develop and create new jobs. This will increase the national income and the national tax base will also be increased. With reduced rates of taxation we can have high revenues - higher than they have been achieved so far - and why not, see from next year and further reductions in tax rates, as well as support for micronomists who have been damaged. At this point I would like to stress for my country in the Cyclades, that the transport equivalent is a positive measure for the country, but of course we need improvement. This does not mean, however, that we will stop trying to maintain the content of Articles 6 and 120 of the VAT Directive. The reduced VAT rates were the most important compensatory measure and were then granted to the Greek island region. The SYRIZA and ANEL government have unfortunately dismantled it. Of course Greek shipping is on the line of sustainable development. Ports of the country and of the Cyclades can and must develop into a steam-driven development engine for the national and regional economy. Their immediate improvement and exploitation is necessary. In 2015, you were talking about setting up a public body on board, which you fortunately did not implement - I will also present in the Minutes the relevant document - and you have been subsidising the barren lines. We are making them a lever for the development of the country's new island policy. [[At this point, honourable Member Philip Loading presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] This budget also marks another important commitment from our Government, which is to modernise the budget itself. The budget of the State is required to be a performance budget with clear objectives by policy area, a budget to be assessed and on which Parliament will also be able to exercise control. The 2020 budget therefore serves concrete economic and social objectives, taking into account both the ideological and the political framework and the liberalism and the market economy, as well as the commitments of our Government. For all these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour of this budget as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 6th Kozani High School (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA to prepare Mr. Spiritos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u258	Thank you very much, Mr President. However, Mr Ministers, in my view you should hurry a little, because time is going on in relation to the primary surpluses. Don't come in here at the end of 2022 to say that we "we hit the decline, because that is what is planned by the SYRIZA agreement with the institutions in August 2018". [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make three comments. Firstly, the budget each year reflects the political philosophy, the political strategy of each government. Consequently, this year's budget also acts as a mirror to the true intentions of the Government of New Democracy, reveals its plans, how it perceives growth, work, social and economic policy. The second point concerns the concept of time. I would like to inform you, Minister, that the period during which you enjoyed the immunity of the newly-built government has been exhausted. From now on, you are implementing a policy of your own inspiration. The third point is, thankfully, about a common place. I believe that the majority of the political spectrum now concludes that we have left budgetary adjustment programmes behind, as there is now the possibility of an expansive budgetary policy. In this light, we are discussing the second non-memorandum budget. So there's one thing left to see. If this year's budget is a development budget, if it is social, that is, if it incorporates the new treaty, the new coordinates for Greece, which have been in place since August 2018, without a memorandum, i.e., without a strict and suffocating budgetary committee. In my opinion, therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, this year's budget is a product, a result of two very critical decisions made by your Government in the past period and were extremely important for the citizens' available income. The first decision was not to use part of the funds secured by the previous government to reduce the primary surplus by 1% from 2020, as we planned with the guarantee account. This decision lost for 2020 EUR 2 billion, money that could, of course, have been made available for more general reductions and social support measures. The second decision was to use more than half of the budgeted space, i.e. to use more than EUR 600 million, to cut taxes on enterprises and their dividends. However, these tax reliefs concern almost exclusively large companies with high profitability. Minister, it is scandalously obvious that six thousand companies are basically relieved, which accounts for just 2.5% of all businesses, while almost 40% of the benefit of the reduction in these taxes will be fruitful, with an annual profit of 7.5 million euros. The backbone of the Greek economy, which is the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, goes for a walk according to the budget. And imagine, Minister, that you were lucky to have to make decisions only on how you will manage and where you will make available the financial space you received, unlike the SYRIZA government, that has had to create. In this context, therefore, the concept and in relation to the true profile of Greek entrepreneurship for 2020 and the "for the eyes" of six thousand companies worldwide, all the others lose the advance payment in 50%, the abolition of the trade fee, the abolition of the solidarity levy of up to EUR 20,000, the further reduction in VAT. It proves to be a great deal: poverty in development policy. You operate spasmically, with no logic and full of contradictions. And since we are talking about contradictions, at this point I would like to give you a very characteristic example, which reveals your philosophy and has something to do with the key field of work. The government, therefore, has been subsidising for twelve months to 3,000 euros a minimum fee for five hundred Greeks working abroad, with the aim of repatriating them, with funds included in the Ministry of Labour budget. At the same time, however, you are showing the way for unemployment to four thousand young scientists who are already working in public services, since you are not extending the OAS programme. At the same time, however, you are also reducing the available funds to the OAU by 20%, thereby reducing the possibility of drawing up similar employment programmes in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the return of the young people who have left in the mass will not be made with programmes - 'poopers'. Are these people going to leave their jobs to come back a year later confronted with the hard work reality that forced them to leave? Or are they gonna come on vacation for a year? The scientists who left will come to Greece at last, when the development you are evangelizing and promised against the coronary, when there will be stable jobs on decent terms, when the workers stop being opportune and consumable. For now, however, the bulldozers are still coming in, big companies are still coming, wages are compressing, industrial relations are deregulation, and New Democracy makes its favorite, uses tricks to create an illusion of growth. So to create, ladies and gentlemen, real conditions for the return of the Greeks who have left the years of the crisis and not cheap communication trick to forget the people who have remained in the country for these difficult years and have chosen under extremely difficult conditions to fight and continue to hope. I do not see you sharing that view. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, while since August 2018 we have been a country without a memorandum, yet the budget you submitted for 2020, a strange thing, has the spirit, has the perfume of the years of austerity. So I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that you have suffered from the Stockholm syndrome. You have fallen in love unrepentantly and in spite of all the reasons, practices, methods and logic that have led us to the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u259	I would also like to thank Mr Meikopoulou and especially Mr Meikopoulou for their time. Please beg Mr Spyros Spiritual from New Democracy to take the floor and then Mr. Georgios Frangidis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget marks the mark of our country's return to normal economic orbit after years of stagnation. This budget covers the budgetary gap inherited by the new government, while creating the financial area for the significant reduction in tax rates and the increase in public investment. At the same time, it lays the foundations for addressing the growth and investment gap, as the government has already implemented consistently and swiftly key reforms to boost employment and investment. There's an end to the era of overcrowding. We are now talking about real and non-realistic surpluses, surpluses resulting from the rationalisation of public administration expenditure and from real development rather than from the bleeding of citizens and businesses or from the application of accounting, for example, the untimely costing of medical expenses. The messages from the markets are positive, as shown by the yields of the state securities, while the economic climate index, after the first half of 2019, follows a record-time upward for the country in a generally negative period for the euro area. Our country regains lost confidence and gets back to the fore. The Government aims to further reduce unemployment and create real, sustainable and stable jobs, not only in the private sector but also in the neo-Algeral sectors of public health and education in particular. In education, the 2020 budget includes appropriations for four and a half thousand permanent recruitments in special education and education, as well as five thousand two hundred fifty in general education. In addition to recruitment, the effort is still being made to manage the Ministry's funds more effectively, which has already contributed to the transfer of EUR 4.5 million from consumer credit to actions such as the grant of the highest institutions. In the same context, the establishment of objective criteria also goes hand in hand, focusing on the quality of funding higher education institutions in our country. This ensures the resolution of chronic pathogens in education and substantially upgrades the public education system. In the health sector, the strategic objective of the government, which is reflected in the budget forecasts, is good, qualitatively accessible health for all Greeks with human and decent conditions of care for all, with the upgrading and digitisation of the health system, with respect for the Greek taxpayer's money, with modern and effective management of health. In this context, we are obliged without any idea, without prejudice and with scientific evidence, with soberness and with the experience we have gained from the public health system, to find solutions to how to achieve this. According to the 2019 Health Profile for Greece, 35% of health care expenditure is paid directly by the household. It is the fourth largest percentage in the Eurozone and twice as high as Europe's average. Costs are today the main obstacle to access to care. Just to talk, although the level of medical science and competence remains high in public hospitals, anyone who has the financial capacity currently prefers the private sector. I have heard the Vice-Presidents refer to the reduction of the Ministry of Health's budget to EUR 3,799 billion in 2020, compared with EUR 3,828 billion in 2019. I would like to stress that the real health expenditure of the Ministry of Health will be higher, as additional money will be provided from the new special reserve of EUR 300 million. However, we must not only see the figures, but we must also see the result they produce. It is no accident that the hospital care sector has been selected for the Ministry of Health's annual programme plan under the budget programme and performance. The programme aims to support and ensure the smooth operation of nursing units through the implementation of infrastructure projects, the recruitment of medical staff, the development of ICU beds, and even uninterrupted supply procedures with medical equipment. I would like here to stress the immediate need, within the budget of these programmes, to attach the necessary weight to care in the region, where the problems remain very acute. In this context, the Ministry of Health's government priorities include promoting partnerships with the private sector for the purchase of medical devices and examinations without charge for the citizen and with a view to improving the effectiveness of the health system. Because there has been a lot of talk lately on this issue, we are not talking about - and I stress this - solutions which will ultimately bear the pocket of the household and the low pensioner, but about new ways of cooperation and synergy between the public and the private sector in the interests of the citizens, to provide the highest possible level of health care, inclusiveness and inequality. We are also discussing the introduction of modern know-how and treatment methods for improving infrastructure and for quality and effective health services, always with transparency, careful risk allocation, accountability and control by the state that is required, as laid down in the Constitution, to ensure the right to health for all citizens. Such a plan to cover the weaknesses of the public sector - which I do not think there will be anyone in this Chamber and in general in our country who refuses to do so, through cooperation with the private sector and in a way - I stress again - that the patients are not financially burdened - is possible. Instead of ignoring the current situation and being 'hidden behind our finger', we must ensure that the conditions of this cooperation are put the state away from interests and transactions and always for the benefit of patients. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government with this budget shows and demonstrates its consistency in its commitment to the Greek people in the elections of 7 July. With design and goals, we must reinforce our country and the Greeks and look up again. I would therefore ask you all to vote in favour of the budget submitted by the New Democracy Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the time. The floor has been requested by the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Varvitsiotis. Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we are living at a time when there is insecurity and new challenges. This new era is a time of uncertainty, because a new scenery is being built around us. There is an increased instability in the Southeast Mediterranean. There are developments that have to do with NATO's crisis of identity, questioning the Atlantic character of the traditional relationship on which all the security environment was built after the Second World War. Europe itself is being shaken by a period of major reclassifications. Already, Brexit is being held in the next few weeks after Boris Johnson and Conservatives' celebrity election and, of course, migratory is causing turbulence in all the capitals and societies of Europe. At the same time, asymmetric threats have become everyday, using social media in the electoral struggles, or with the security provided by the networks of the fourth or fifth generation communications. In this environment Europe itself is tormented by dilemmas, which a few years ago would have been forgotten and buried in history's chronicles. And while Europe itself was born as a coalition of states which decided to end traditional enthusiasms, they put nationalism and national planning behind, organised a new coexistence environment, today we see it at all levels that national designs are coming back. That is why we see the European Union's own weakness. Despite the opposite mandate of its citizens in the past European elections where most of the citizens asked for more Europe than their leaders, by voting for parties that support the European road, we still see disagreements that lead the summits to no results. We have not found an agreement on the climate, we have not been able to agree on enlargement, we do not find a common place for the Union's budget, from which you are asking for two things to be done, to pay less and to produce more results, which is impossible. In all this difficult environment, Greece has succeeded - particularly at European level, and that is why this success is even more important - in supporting its positions, and that is a national conquest, in which we cannot call into question nor an asterisk. Why did not astronauts enter Brussels, they did not come into the European Council' s earlier decision, which stated two clear things. Firstly, that the memorandum between Turkey and Libya does not produce legal effects for third countries and, secondly, that the European Union stands in solidarity with Cyprus and Greece. Nevertheless, the instability of the environment remains, and that is why we must also build a framework of national unanimity in this Chamber and outside this Chamber. In the face of the existent Turkish threats, the Greeks stand up and stand united, and that is what I think should be the lasting inclination of all political parties and political leaders in every location, because precisely the new scene requires us to stand up to the circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that in this new environment Greece must take the lead in many different ways. The first is the recovery of her economy. That Greece is leaving the place of beggar, that today it is borrowing at a competitive rate, that they are set out in the budget, in which we are discussing positive growth rates, increased employment, that there is a live investment interest by major players in the world system to come and place themselves in the country, clearly makes us stronger. At the same time, we continue the level of consultations in our neighbourhood and in the wider Mediterranean, but we also open the doors beyond the neighborhood, whether they are in Africa or are in Asia with a characteristic China door. And we must do this multi-dimensional foreign policy, because it is also our size, but it is our geographical position that imposes on us above all and our history too, because Greece has always, despite its small parcel, been able to speak reliably with all the partners and, of course, with all the international players. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that in the context of the European Union, in the area with which I have been responsible, we have managed to obtain reliable interlocutors and above all to build alliances, based on two axes: mutual respect and respect for international law and its principles. Because without this we cannot go back to the jungle age, we cannot go back to the time when it is fair what the strongest one wants. It is right that is prescribed by the international treaties and by what we are implementing. In conclusion, I would like to make a comment on a subject which, both at European and national level, has caused many concerns. And that's the issue of immigration. Mr President, you have particular sensitivity because of the island you come from and are plagued by this problem. I want you to know two things, that the message we convey to our European partners is that Greece, by changing the asylum procedures, shielding its borders, does what must be done by applying European directives, European regulations at all levels, whether in the asylum process or in the hosting process. At the same time, we call on Europe not to be afraid and not to be appalled about this phenomenon, which has come to remain, but to express itself in a creative way, finally creating the structures and procedures to deal with it. It is not going to end the problems relating to illegal immigration in the Evros fences or to strengthen the protection of our maritime borders, which we do and do systematically and will work. We will succeed in facing this challenge, when all European leaders decide one thing, that we will manage it by transferring the burden to the whole of Europe and not by condemning the first host countries and even more so the Aegean islands where we are solidarity. In conclusion, I would like to say that with today's budget Greece is becoming stronger and stronger because its economic perspective becomes much more optimistic and this is a weapon that we can use in every international contact. Because a country that does not stand firmly on its feet cannot face its vital economic problems. Unfortunately, he has a weak voice. Today, with the budget that we are voting on, we are finally gaining what has taken place so many years in the country, a positive signal for the progress of the economy, with strong growth, with an improvement in the investment environment, with a reduction in tax rates, so that we can say that we are also taking part in the benefits of the common economic policy as we congratulate it in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Francis Georgios is called in Stepma by the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating one of the top bills for the country, which largely gives the mark of the government, the architecture of its economic policy, its priorities and its objectives. The fact of this budget is that it is little different in philosophy and direction from that of the government that is coming. It could be termed in three words: unrealistic, unrealistic and socially unfair. It does not manage to focus on the essential and structural problems of the Greek economy and the country: low productivity, weak institutions, the difficult state with the dashing processes, the lack of competitiveness and innovation, labour and insurance issues. Modern challenges such as the Fourth Industrial Revolution, migration - refugee, demographic change, are not adequately addressed. Reform and development remain intact pre-election promises. The budget is based, like the previous SYRIZA - ANELs, on the high primary surplus of 7 billion, so that a small part of it can be redistributed, serving not only social but also political and electoral purposes. Reform and development remain intact pre-election promises. The budget is based - like the previous SYRIZA - on the high primary surplus of 7 billion, so that a small part of it can be redistributed, serving not only social purposes, but also political and electoral purposes. It is also based on overtaxation, artificial containment of costs, low public investment. The high surpluses and overtaxation of the middle class make the economy clutch and reverse productive and economic activities. At the same time, small and medium-sized incomes and vulnerable social groups are wronged. The disproportionate relationship between direct and indirect taxes shows an unequal distribution of tax burdens and a non-blossy economy. Some small tax reliefs concern, in particular, companies, while they are not linked to the creation of new jobs and investment. Although the Government claims to be making tax reductions, for 2020 there is provision for an increase in income tax on natural persons by EUR 264 million and for increases in taxes on goods and services by EUR 979 million. Is this not a paradox of the budget? Nor will the EMI be influenced upwards by the increase in the objective values, which in the budget appear to be involved with revenues of 142 million? Finally, the taxes imposed by the crisis, such as HPAI, the trade fee and other extraordinary taxes, are seen as coming to stay, although the memoranda are over. The Public Investment Programme shall remain in 2020 at the same level as in 2019. This prevents the achievement of development objectives, the improvement of the quality of life of citizens and the increase in employment. Furthermore, the budget is not realistic. It provides for a growth rate of 2.8%, although the global economy is seen as unstable and slow. At the same time, OSCE speaks of 2.1%, IOBE speaks of 2.3% to 2.5% and the Bank of Greece speaks of 2.4%. The government is counting on an increase in GDP. Private consumption, however, lags behind, as citizens owe both banks and public and insurance funds. Exports, on the other hand, show decreases in 2019 compared to 2018, while it is estimated that imports in 2020 will be more than exports. A major problem also suggests that the ESRB has a low rate of absorption of funds. How can one characterise the reduction of social costs for the welfare state, health, hospitals, insurance funds? Our country's economy is based on productive and development, mainly on two pillars: tourism and the primary sector. In tourism, when it leaves, we had the closure of 'THOMAS COOK' with all the negative effects on businesses and workers. Recently, our group, which has raised this issue at the first moment, tabled a question on the unfair payment of VAT for the unpaid invoices of the 'THOMAS COOK' and the fictitious increase in the turnover of companies, which leads to more tax. We hope in the immediate future to provide solutions to these, as you can see with interest the requests of SETE, such as reducing VAT with the aim of increasing the competitiveness and sustainability of businesses, abolishing or reducing the residence tax, declining the income tax of companies, the election of charges at airports and ports of the country, the creation of a framework for short-term leases. The primary and agro-food sector are in an unfavourable position. That is why the government's strong interest is required. As a political area, we have recently tabled a topical question on the sector's problems with Minister Voridis. Government planning and policy for 2020, but also for the long term, should give the forgotten Greek province weight to its problems and prospects for its development. I'd like here to bring an example of my county of Kilkis County. Neighbourhood with northern Macedonia and Bulgaria, countries with low taxation and cheap workforce, resulted in a number of businesses transporting there, an increase in unemployment - more than 40% - to young people, declining growth, the occurrence of migration, mainly young people of high education, the reduction of population and low per capita income. In the self-managed area of Kilkis, however, there are dynamic companies, with participation in the global, European, Balkan and Greek economy, which need to be helped. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm done. Kilkis' economy is mainly based on the primary and secondary sectors. The primary sector needs support here, as indeed throughout Greece. There are many suggestions. The reduction of the tax on aid and compensation for farmers, the exclusion of agricultural parcels from supplementary ENPIs, the promotion of voluntary association or the exchange of agricultural parcels through ESDP with cost coverage, the promotion of voluntary withdrawal of pensioners with incentives and the use of agricultural land by young farmers. Also, the elimination of inequality between the regions with the same crops and, finally, the finding of a solution to the agricultural loans received under the public guarantee that are in liquidation. In the infrastructures we see in the prefecture a paradox and unjust phenomenon. In relation to PATHE's road, the department, i.e. Evzones - Thessaloniki, the main entrance of the country, still to be implemented. What's the result? Dozens of traffic deaths. And we came to the point a few months ago to form a toll to the height of the Euzone customs. And these days, within 16 km of them, at the exits of Polykastro, other tolls are created for the inhabitants of the Municipality of Paionia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u265	Please finish, Mr. Comrade. You've been to nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u266	I'm done, Mr. President. If it is possible for the village and municipal residents to pay toll! Finally, in the health sector, the Kilkis Hospital has many problems. Most importantly, however, a new wing is required, where all the clinics of the old, dangerous building, built on voluntary work by the inhabitants, will be housed in 1936. There is also an urgent need for the intensive care unit. In conclusion, I would like to say that Greece's great problem was and remains its development. To get the country out of the light, it needs to enter a developmental orbit immediately. That is not what the budget and the time-consuming times do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u267	Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Palura from New Democracy, and then Dritsas from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today in a very important - historically important - I would like to say - a meeting in order to discuss and, ultimately, to vote on the 2020 budget. Historical because it is essentially the first budget meeting with the first self-power since 2012 and then the New Democracy government with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It is also very important, because this is the first anti-monetary budget, but it has a development mark and not a tax-suppressive character. That is also the nature, the mixture, of our policy, of investing in the healthy development forces of the country and of supporting them in order to produce wealth and jobs, without being a brake on their development, but a force of start-up and creation. The budget, created by the Ministry of Finance, by the relevant Minister, Mr Stakoura, and his staff, clearly reflects the prospects for tomorrow's election-on-election policies, with which we were elected by society. It is clear that with the 2020 budget we are changing direction. The philosophy of the budget we are discussing today is on the reverse of what we have known in recent years from the SYRIZA - ANEL government. It puts its burden on investment policy, both domestic and foreign, with a view to the prosperity and creation of new jobs that are well-paid and stable. It creates a protection net, essentially and not in words, for those who need it most by drastically dealing with poverty. It clearly reflects our shift from the policy of overtaxing the past by the SYRIZA - ANEL governments to the policy of fewer taxes and the overall burden of natural persons. Today, almost six months after our election to the government and under the leadership of Mr Mitsotakis, we are already seeing the first positive steps in this policy. In short, I would remind you of the reduction in HPAI, the regulation of the hundreds of twenty-dollars, while the overall estimate of the first semester contains the reduction in the interest rate of the ten-year bond from 3.9% in March 2019 to 1.5% in October. At the same time, for the first time, the economic climate indicators are significantly improved, as is recorded by IOBE and also by international rating houses, which constantly upgrade our country's credit rating. Ladies and gentlemen, the evidence speaks clearly, but the most important thing is the improvement of the economic climate and the resurgence of the market, which we see every day, as the confidence in our economy and our policy begins to bear fruit. With our draft budget, therefore, we are introducing a new logic of management and training, while moving firmly within the objectives of the primary surplus, we are reducing the tax burden on natural and legal persons and doing so without reducing them in any other area of our policy. How do we manage that? By strengthening the development prospects with given tax rates, which yield more revenue, rationalising and correcting errors and failures of fiscal policy, by extending the tax base, focusing on electronic transactions, redesigning the individual budgets of operators by abolishing the fictitious expenditure limits, so that we can finally end with the creation of unusable surpluses. But to understand what all this means, we must all remember what SYRIZA has inherited us. In particular, in the four years 2015-2019, SYRIZA was proud to have achieved an excess of 11.4 billion. What does that mean? Money that raised the public through its tax-suppressive policy, purifying the households and drying the market. To understand in real terms what they have done, I will only tell you how this surplus is almost four times the amount of total annual revenue of ENPIA in fact, it is as if they charged society an additional ENPI for each year their governance, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Tsakalotos and their partners. And all this, of course, within the context of the primary surpluses agreed by Mr Tsipras and his government and exhausted the already tired one from the war of the crisis. In our philosophy, in our political practice, these do not exist. The budget we are debating today is the 2020 budget, which is based initially on the estimate that the rate of GDP growth in 2020 will be set at 2.8%, while the primary surplus forecasts how it will be by 3.58% of GDP increased, against the objective we have in enhanced supervision. At the same time, the net revenues of the budget after and the reimbursement of taxes are projected to be EUR 54,710,000, or an increase of 0.8% of the estimates for 2019, and we are doing this by not increasing the rates of taxation but by reducing them, both because of the increase in GDP, as well as because of the enlargement of the tax base and the increased collection of the ENPI due to reductions. Finally, with regard to these costs, they are increased by EUR 722,000 in relation to the 2019 assessment, but without this being done at the expense of public policies, but by rationalising the public finances and budgets of operators while targeting the qualitative upgrading of services. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget comes to record the will but at the same time the determination of this government, to change the country drastically and with a plan, gives weight to strengthening investment and extroverty, it is precarious by reducing taxes and unreasonable costs by rationalising public finances. This budget captures the trace of a Greece, which is finally standing strong at its feet, a Greece that produces, exports, strengthens its economy and builds a new stable, developmental reality for the future. We in the New Democracy, therefore, envision this Greece, because this Greece is also worthy of it, and we are determined to create it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Drizzas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, MP Chania, the New Democracy's general rapporteur in the debate on the 2020 budget, on the first day of the debate, Mr. Manosos Voloudakis, in closing his suggestion, has proposed that we return to national practice of decades older and vote on all parties' defence expenditure, regardless of whether or not the whole budget is voted. Beyond the point that his own party is the first to abandon this practice for many years now, since it has been in the opposition, this proposal could indeed, under conditions, make sense and also be examined by us, but not by us, of course, in this year's budget that has not been taken any initiative by the government to fulfil some of these conditions at least. It is high time, however, that we can - now we really have a new period, not because the New Democracy was elected but because the country did complete the size of the Memorandum of Forces and Forces and their cruelty - so we can open up such a serious debate and upgrade Parliament's control over the organisation of the defence finances, firstly in the context of the operation of the Committee on Military Programmes and Conventions, which, as we know, operates with the principle of confidentiality. There we can and must see many interesting and extremely useful for Greek society and defence. NATO expenditure and armaments and management and operating expenditure must be evaluated and, of course, expenditure on payroll and needs for all military personnel, low-level and high-grade, including, of course, civilian personnel. We in the SYRIZA side are proposing this and we will submit this proposal to the committee. After all, Dimitris Vitsas, Vice-President of the Parliament and former Deputy Minister of National Defence in the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs spoke about this and suggested that we should also discuss a rational and targeted increase in the budget, despite the fact that this budget for the matter of responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence does not, of course, provide for any incision of a significant quantity or quality, but it is also worth noting that it provides for a reduction of EUR 100,000,000 of the Ministry's regular budget and of 26,000 of the Public Investment Programme. This is because, precisely, it means stagnation, it does not really mean a very clear fall, but it is noteworthy in the conditions for which we are discussing. However, what is important is rationalisation, prioritisation, evaluation, transparency, control and exploitation of resources in the best way possible to increase the result of the country's defence shield. However, during SYRIZA - ANEL, with great efforts and despite the extortionist monumental difficulties, we have succeeded in implementing our programme commitments which have as their main priority the urgent and priority needs for the maintenance and upgrading of existing weapons systems, for spare parts, for fuels, for education like, of course, and for the living needs of executives wherever possible. We have succeeded to a large extent in achieving this programming objective. This is also the case with the real developments. We have therefore managed to keep the country's defensive armour and the coherence of the army at the highest possible level, at a very satisfactory level. In addition to what I have to say in my special responsibility as defence department, what I must also point out - Mr Vitsas pointed out is that, as well as the Ministry of Finance and not only the Ministry of Defence - after the recent sudden, dangerous and extra-institutional legislation on the Single Border Surveillance Body and on the 'National Coordinator' to deal with and manage the immigration-refugee issue, in addition to the other serious issues that we denounced earlier - and which will then be discussed - there is also a question of budgeting, since, according to the report of the State General Accounting Office, there are new costs incurred for the first time at the expense of the state budget and the other general government, expenditure that has been covered, in particular, by funding from the funds of the European Union funds. Since the European Union is not prepared to finance detention centres and much more, the budget that you are bringing us today is now being taken over, but which does not provide for these costs. Dimitris Vitsats said it too. So the question arises: will you tell us what the level of this expenditure is - we are talking about millions - and where are you going to find it? Mr Stakoras must answer before the vote on this budget is completed. This is not a matter of the Minister of National Defence. On another level now - I would ask you to give me a minute, Mr President - I think it is worth mentioning another suggestion made to this House by MP Evros of the New Democracy Mr Stavros Keletsis, who said to us, 'Alas, if we return to normality before 2010'. We fully agree. If this happens again in Greece, in Greeks and in Greeks, only where the recipe proposed to us by this budget is entirely the same as that of bankruptcy: High profitability, particularly for large companies through the privileged and targeted reduction of taxation, as well as the reduction of labour costs and labour rights directly or indirectly, but also the declaration of social welfare, health, education, that is to say, for the needs of the vast majority of the Greek people. According to this recipe, as all New Democracy MPs who speak about it are expressly repeating it, after this "production of wealth", where they identify the profitability of business with the production of wealth - that is what some, selfishly and falsely happens - then, they say, we can perhaps talk about redistribution! First the production of wealth. That's our big difference. This is the recipe for new poverty and new inequalities leading to bankruptcy. For us, the reduction of inequalities and the drastic strengthening of the democratic welfare state, in addition to other matters of justice, is also a matter of primary importance as a development factor. There cannot be sustainable growth with inequalities and poverty. You can't do that. From this point of view, inequality and poverty are just a burden and a contradiction in your policy. That is precisely why, because you know, you have been well prepared to promote the rebuilding of the police state of repression of the right in the name of supposedly the security of citizens, misled by asynchronous people and undermining their freedoms and rights. As for the famous investments, a comment: We see the tragic developments of the competitive powerful economic interests for the Greek island, where a casino is being created as the flagship of the multi-storey investment. Good profits and enjoy them!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u271	Mr Georgios Amanatidis is called in Stepma from New Democracy. Then Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis will have the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u272	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as I participate in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I will be content with an overview of this draft law, the budget for 2020, and I will not go into particular points of it. First of all, let me refer to the economic landscape, as was established before the elections of 7 July 2019. The climate of recent years could be condensed in three words: overtaxation, development misfortune and all this in the real economy, that is, a state of suffocation of productive forces. There was, therefore, a conscious, ruthless, - I would say - fiscal and insurance raid, while any overruns of the budgetary objective were not due to the rate of economic growth, but were the result of the imposition of new taxes, cuts in pensions and family allowances, the non-payment of thousands of pensions, the additional charges on insurance contributions on freelance professionals, the suspension of expenditure on public investment and other corresponding policies, i.e. they were artificial. This is evident from the international indicators of assessment of the business environment, which have placed our country very low. In particular, for 2019, the indicator for business convenience ranked Greece lower than in 2018 by five positions. The Global Competitiveness Index shows a marginal deterioration in the situation of Greece compared with 2018, with the parameters that have an impact on it continuously. I won't mention them to buy time. But what is the economic landscape today? Has he changed? What's changed? The economic climate index, after the first half of 2019, follows an impressive upward trend, which is a record for Greece since the start of the economic crisis, in contrast to the slowdown in the respective Eurozone index. The markets are pleading for this. The country is lending at very low cost, sometimes at zero. But what is the cause of this reversal of climate? It is due to the Government's reform initiatives in the second half of 2019, which, of course, coincides with the first half of its term of office. That's the answer. The initiatives taken indicate, for example, the successful removal of the capital restrictions that had been implemented since 2015, the reduction of HICP, the reduction of tax rates, the regulation of 120 instalments, the completion of the programme of late obligations of the general government bodies and so on. The reversal of the climate is due, in other words, to an environment which has been created and which favours the stimulus of the economy forward. This positive economic climate, created, should be intensified, which is already reflected in the state budget for the year 2020. Therefore, the targeting of the 2020 budget. Investment and social cohesion are at the heart of it. I would like to explain that the budget is pro-investing, because the economic policy pursued by the government is aimed at reversing the climate of deinvestment. The medium-term objective of the new policy is to invest as a percentage of GDP gradually approaching pre-crisis levels. The 2020 budget provides for a significant increase in the growth rate from 1.5%, observed in the first half of 2019 to 2.8%. It also provides - and this is very important - for the restructuring of the Public Investment Programme, by strengthening the co-financed strand and ending the under-utilisation which the Public Investment Programme has characterised in recent years. Yes, it has a budget of EUR 6.75 billion, but it is aimed at actions, infrastructures and actions which contribute and stimulate the process of local and regional development and that is what our country needs. It is therefore integrated, a holistic design and, in fact, a positive specification for its evolution. Also a serious change in the Public Investment Programme, which has been systematically under way in recent years, is the adjustment of its targeting during the year. Instead of targeting the implementation of 40% in December, as it has been done so far and giving the impression of the surpluses that we could share, this will be dealt with by a more balanced allocation of resources from the Public Investment Programme. In the end, we will have to pay about 16% of the sums, which are due at the end of the year. Besides being the pro-investor, the budget is also a budget with a social person, because it is enough to see the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. The original approved budget of the Ministry of Labour for the financial year 2019, totalling EUR 18,5 billion, following the addition of EUR 1.4 billion, is set at EUR 19.9 billion for the purpose of paying the so-called 15th pension, the public contribution to the protection of first residence, the grant of the Ministry of Education and a number of other actions. It is clear from this that the budget has a different philosophy, after putting an end to the policy of overcrowding and seeking as close as possible to the objective, without aiming - as I have said - at overcrowding. It also enables the primary surpluses to be increased, to the extent that the citizens' tax capacity can withstand them, without, in other words, ultimately reducing the real income of citizens. It is a possible policy, because it strengthens the Greek economy's development prospects and society, widens the tax base, rationalises the individual expenditure. It is a budget that aims and measures the results, shapes and specialises performance with indicators. As time is pushing, I will not make a special reference to what is positive that can bring about. Ladies and gentlemen, as it is understood, the 2020 budget is not just a numerical indication of the present and the future. It is a tool to help society and the economy with a deep sense that there are people behind the numbers. They gave us the power, and basically they trusted us to deal with issues that concern them, but retaining the right to control us. We must give lasting concern, credibility and consistency to enhance the concept of policies and policies that have been seriously affected in recent years. The present government, with the visionary and consistent guidance of the Prime Minister of the country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, focuses on this. She is determined to fight hard and she is already doing so successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis is called in Stepma by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. I am born of a question: I wonder when I hear a member of the Kosani Prefecture not to feel the need to say anything about PPC. In all this on a fair transition, which we heard just now from Mr Hatzidakis, should not raise a question, a question? How does he understand her? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Anyway, I wonder if he heard what I said. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the debate on this budget essentially closes a whole cycle of legislation, which started with that dreadful bill at the beginning of August, which was a bill with the government's first anti-corruption measures. Then we passed the notorious development law, which was really there, we had more systematic anti-government legislation and a series of other very specific photographic arrangements. We saw after the PPC bill, the tax bill and the tricks with the "Philosmos" by the Ministry of Interior. But we did not see what the Greek people would expect. Because, having come out of the memoranda, having closed the circle of memoranda, one would expect us to have in the budget, precisely the footprint of today's juncture. One would expect that we have a budget after years, which exploits the economic environment, new opportunities, see what this means to new jobs and what jobs, see how these new opportunities, this part of growth - which everyone says is going to exist and how it has already been seen, that the economy is moving along the paths of growth - how it will be distributed, how it will be directed. Nevertheless, we have a budget, which moves into an old classical and well-known logic for the New Democracy's resignation, the one that says tax exemptions for very few, pretextably some crumbs for the small, a class-shaped partition. However, what I think should - as we close in 2019 - be awarded to the New Democracy, in this government, is the first prize of political unreliability. Because political unreliability is about making elections, saying that you will reduce the primary surplus, and once you come to the government to forget it - anywhere abroad - and say that it has some reforms as a precondition. Political unreliability is to speak of 4% rate of development in an election, to convince everyone that once you take over, the economy will start to muddle and here a projection of 2.8% in the budget, when we have passed - for the sake of our own policy, as in the first half of the year SYRIZA was government - over 2% growth. Political unreliability is to talk about the middle layers and at the same time to announce a policy that gives it all to the very strong, while in the middle layers your political sympathy. Political unreliability is to see that the economy cannot go ahead with wishing and good words and at the same time, where there really is a need to support small and medium-sized incomes, to vote for increases in PPC, which also hit family costs and business. Political unreliability is to speak in the name of the free market, and at the same time, with your policy, to build hard private monopolies, such as what you are trying to do in the gas sector in the networks, such as what the Minister for Energy has just announced about the TEN. It is enough for him to have the courage to talk about IPTO and say that we privatised IPTO, saying: "But, well, SYRIZA did not do"? Wait a minute. PPC, as you know, is 51% public, 49% private sector. We have kept it to the IPTO, i.e. 51% under public control. Only now, it's not PPC, it's the clean public. The question is: What is the reason for the profitable IPTO, a natural monopoly, to privatize further, as you have said? And you come and say that you will do the same thing. But be careful: You say 51% to PPC. PPC, however, within it is divided into 51% and 49% in public and private sectors. So, basically, he loses control of the public in the DEDEN. That's what you know, that's what you're doing. At the same time, you cannot draw any conclusions, which are obvious. Did you see ELSTAT's data, what I mentioned before, in relation to the pace of growth? One of its reasons for over 2% in the first half of the year's growth rate is to increase the minimum wage, the fact that, through collective agreements in large sectors of the economy, wages and therefore, we have more available income on the market, the fact that we, in what we called over-excession, did not act like you did in the conditions of the memoranda. These all contributed to getting that growth rate. But there are, and you like me, I'd say, political unreliableness. It's this unreliability on the issue of the Ambassadors' Agreement. Such political unreliability to have them. Where you denounce her, now drink water in her name. Cheers! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] There is another political lack of credibility in the refugee region. And that's where you're talking, or you're saying it when you go out. I hope that you do not diffuse what your far-right component is pushing you and go for closed centres. We don't need that. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that you have begun the attack on society. You know, when a government attacks society, then it recruits authoritarianism. Today, just now, another complaint came out in the light of publicity. See ‘TV EXCESS’ - I saw it myself - but also on other websites. They arrested a twenty-two-year-old student in Patisia, checked her preventively and asked her to take out the pants of Patisia's division. Who finally gives Greek Police the right to target youth? This catapult, the slipper, the author is dangerous. What signal are you sending? Stop targeting Greek youth. You cannot give such rights to anyone to behave in this way. It is not possible for students to come out and pull them out of their ears from the movies because they are watching the movie "Joker". You can't enter the amusement centers with firearms protected. It is not possible to humiliate and humiliate young people. This road, indeed, is slippery and I invite you to abandon it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u276	Wait a minute, Minister. Soon the eleventh cycle closes. Mr. Gikas, Mr. Michaelides, will speak of the changes that have taken place. The Minister of Tourism, Mr Theocharis, Mr Bogdanos and Mrs Gara will then speak. You have the floor for a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u277	I've heard a lot about political unreliability. Somehow I remember the programme of Thessaloniki, the "a memorandum with a law and an article" that will be abolished, the EVIA, which is an unfair law, is not corrected and abolished, the abolition of MATs, as I remember also a PPC, which suddenly had profit, 900 million losses, at the expense of the Greek taxpayer. I'm trying to remember which ministers were the ones responsible for these damages. Help me!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u279	Here you go, Mr. Bukoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u280	Impressions arise, of course, and I do not want to go on with what Mr Skoplakis said, we are talking about a government, the previous one, which never achieved the development objectives, which she had set in her budgets. From that point on, however, there is an attempt to create a climate of targeting youth. Any incidents that have occurred in the recent past are all controlled by the legal procedures provided for. The incident that was heard a little while ago in the House does not know whether it stands, but I would like to call on SYRIZA to stop targeting the Greek Police and not to create impressions, adopting make news or irresponsible events, that there is a state of strictness and authoritarianness. Respecting lawfulness, of course respecting youth, but respecting the institutions of the state is not illegal, gentlemen, it is normality. You should understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u282	Wait a minute, Mr. Amanatidis. Why do you want the floor? Did he refer to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u283	About what Mr. Skourletis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u284	General placement was made, the Minister answered, the parliamentary representative answered. I don't think there's a reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u286	To answer? Here you go, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u287	Is there any staff, Mr. President? Did you hear from me a personal report?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u288	For a minute, I want the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u289	Did you hear from me a personal report, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u290	Let's hear what the staff are up to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u291	Mr Amanatidis said that there was no personal matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u292	No report.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u293	Mr. Skourletis made a political assessment...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u294	We will hear whether there is any staff for a minute, as the Rules of Procedure say, and whether there is staff, the floor will be given. You have the floor for a minute, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u295	I want to say to the Minister that he really can be happy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u296	Mr. Skourletis, what personal is it? I would remind you that the staff are...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u297	It's the distortion of what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u298	...to distort or alter the contents of your speech. You know that. So what's the alteration?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u299	There's no staff, Mr. President. We don't speak personally, but politically.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u300	I mean the following. The Minister may indeed be very happy, because he sees that the current New Democracy has adopted the action programme, so he may feel pleased. As for what he said about PPC, I would like to remind him of this. In the days of the previous PASOK and New Democracy governments, the Greek people have often seen...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u301	You guys place yourself now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u302	...and damages to PPC, but also 60% increase in electricity. That's well known.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u303	Is that personal, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u304	This isn't personal, I'm sorry. Mr. Skourletis, it's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u305	Finally, in relation to the Greek Police, it is a dangerous game to put people...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u306	It's not personal. You're forbidden, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u307	...infringing legality, and indeed, seeing what is happening today at the expense of youth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u308	Please very much, Mr. Skourlet. That's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u309	He referred to my location.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u310	Mr President, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u311	Here you go, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u312	I heard the parliamentary representative, who, after the complaints made by Mr Skourletis, told us? That everything is being dealt with by service and not hitting the police. I think after this intervention, our youth will feel a great relief, which knows we are in the land of Caffka, where everything will be examined somewhere, but we know there is a white check in the police against our youth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u313	These are crises.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u314	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u315	You answered, Mr. Buquoir. There's nothing else to do. You've made a judgment, Mr. Chakalotos does a judgment. That won't go on right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u316	Mr Skourletis answered the Minister's reply to his previous colleague. That is not the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Gika, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to change the flow of my speech a little. I will fully agree with our parliamentary representative. The Greek police should not be targeted. We don't know if it happened. She could be individual. The Greek police are needed. In our country we have security problems which have, in many cases, been created and intensified over the days of your administration. So let the Greek police do their job properly. These two days we have heard incredible things about SYRIZA's governance. They blame New Democracy and even shake our fingers, saying that with this budget, but also with the current course, the situation in the country is much worse. I'll tell you to take a walk to society. Look at the polls, see that a new wind of optimism is blowing. Better days are coming. It seems this in society, wherever you go, in the neighborhoods, in the cafes, in our regions. I come and represent Corfu. Unfortunately for you, if for the past four to five years there is a prefecture that the inefficiency of the government can be captured, this is Corfu. I am not only referring to waste problems - for which Mr Skourletis once had the responsibility - which were intensified - and our Government came and within four months we have given a solution - but also to issues that are more general, smaller and larger, such as the Archaeological Museum, which you have had for three years, without real reason and to questions that we have raised in this House, you have answered that it has not been closed, because the air condition has not been maintained and many others, for which I will not use any more time. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is a development budget. It is a budget, which helps the businessman, reduces taxation, helps the middle class and I think that at the end of 2020 the situation in the country will be far better than at least the one we have received, but also the one it is now. Over the past five months, the government has changed its climate by a number of bills and this is reflected in the confidence shown by the markets. That's not me or you, but it's the markets, the houses. You see that our economy is being upgraded, and of course, bonds interest rates have fallen too low and can be borrowed and repaid by the International Monetary Fund. So this is an indicator that we cannot ignore. But there is also a social person in these policies, which the new government is carrying out and which are reflected in the budget. I cannot understand why you are constantly talking about classics and saying that it is a class budget, that the big people are favoured and not the small ones. I will tell you that so far, all these measures that have been taken by this government are measures that help people most in need, help young people, help those who pay little VAT, help the Greek family. Bad lies, Greece is facing a big issue today, which you have done nothing for five years. That's demographic. We didn't see you making cuts, strengthening the Greek family. This government, from the early days of governance and, of course, during the pre-election period, has announced measures that support and help the family, as well as the multiple family, and are reflected in this budget. I don't want to go into details. In any case, my colleagues have said so in detail. It also helps entrepreneurship. In what way? Reduction of taxes. From 28% went to 24%, with the prospect of going to 20%. The dividends fell, the contributions followed. So it is a budget that has two important dimensions: it helps both society and entrepreneurship. We support the private initiative, which is also in our programme, and that is also in our philosophy. On the contrary, SYRIZA's previous government wanted a state businessman. This can't be done. I would like to say a word about the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. Of course, we should all vote for this budget because of the particular geopolitical context. Minister, I reintroduce this proposal, which may perhaps have to be seen in the next budget, especially for the Armed Forces' armaments needs, to increase for a five-year period the expenditure of 0.5% of GDP, which means 1 billion a year, for five years, that these 5 billion will be able to meet significant needs of the Armed Forces. Of course, this presupposes, Minister, that the Armed Forces Procurement Act has also changed to ensure full transparency and, of course, that it is in the knowledge of all those who are interested in these issues. In these words, it is a development budget, a budget, which helps the Greek society, helps the small and medium-sized class, helps the multitude families, helps each family. I therefore urge you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u319	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Andreas Michaelides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. "Let the police do its job," said our previous colleague. If you think the police work is to strip and humiliate young people, we think it's not her job. And this job, we won't let the Greek police do it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the political footprint of the budget in question is found, not only in what is explicitly provided for, but also in what it does not contain. I will give some examples of targeted tax relief measures, which we announced and for which we committed ourselves in May 2019 and not included in the 2020 budget. I am referring to the commitments to reduce income tax on islands to three thousand inhabitants, to reduce HNVIA to islands of up to a thousand inhabitants, and to provide a 10% reduction in income tax for each cooperative farmer. These measures, which would, on the one hand, have little budgetary costs and, perhaps, most importantly, they would be based in a substantial way and on the development of categories of the population, which in any case deserve such specific tax treatment. Instead, we hear, for example, from the relevant ministerial bodies the intentions of increasing private participation in the capitalisation of agricultural cooperatives, which will, in essence, undermine the cooperative nature of these organisations. Above all, we find that the unfamiliar lifting of the tax raid, which you had as a front, gentlemen of the New Democracy, is far from your expectations, and in addition, any reduction in taxation results in very specific pockets. More than 50% of the reductions are directed at enterprises, through a sharp reduction in the rate of taxation of legal persons and a reduction in around half the rate of taxation of dividends from 10% to 5%, which is made by the lowest in Europe. It is clear that the neoliberal logic of these changes, particularly if the size of the reduction and the overall mix of your economic policy is taken into account, but even this relief, is, for a major reason, limited to 3% of enterprises, the most powerful and profitable, that is, businesses. The backbone of small and medium-sized enterprises, in other words, will see zero or minimal benefit. Even the free professionals, who, in principle, benefit from the introduction of the new low tax rate, will of course be asked to pay most of their debts to the increased insurance contributions you are preparing. In passing on to the section on social expenditure, we will see that reductions are provided for in a number of benefits, such as family allowances, allowances for small and medium-sized enterprises, the rental allowance, which we have adopted. These reductions are offset by the benefit for the new births entered. In other words, we are not talking about reallocating amounts for the benefit of the new allowance, which could, in principle, be discussed, but about reducing the substance of the welfare and solidarity budget to the sum of 370 million at all. It should be recalled here that it was precisely the important and in the midst of strict monitoring of the budget in the area of social solidarity, which, according to the ELSTAT data, allowed the reduction of economic disparities at the lowest levels, not only of the crisis, but also of the overall, in view of it as from 2005. I'm coming to the Department of Health budget. The truth is that your political health targets, such as the apparent promotion of reasonable PPPs, are not betrayed by this budget. Generally speaking, you seem to be following the logic of the allocation and the level of expenditure in the medium term. This is, of course, not good for you, for two main reasons. Firstly, because by means of such a budget unjustly remove the extreme catastrophe and disruption of pathogens in the health sector, which you followed when you were in opposition. Secondly, the political criticism of the health budget is that he does not take advantage of the favourable economic situation in the direction of integration, construction and further support for the public health system, as we have sought. In other words, it does not exploit the increased financial space and the much more relaxed surveillance regime to speed up convergence with the European average health expenditure, staffing rate with new staff, upgrading infrastructure and services with universal and equal access to health. All of this, we have had a great deal of trouble, of course, and we consider it to be a social requirement to maintain this orientation on the one hand and to speed up the progressive reform patterns on the other. It is, of course, rather refreshing to expect you to pursue such a policy with a socio-central and progressive character, and that is about the 2020 budget as a whole, which we will obviously vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u321	The Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, is called on in Step for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u322	Thank you very much, Mr President. I feel, ladies and gentlemen, very proud to be a member of a government that first brings an investment and development budget after years. The 2020 budget reflects the fundamental pursuits of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis: Strong and sustainable growth of the economy, with more investment and, above all, many better jobs for Greeks. I cannot, however, resist commenting on the criticism I have heard these three days. Of course, I have heard Mr Skourletis here earlier about youth. First of all, does SYRIZA and Mr. Skourletis speak of political untrust? Half the party lost in 2015 just with the assholes. The only political unbelief that SYRIZA knows will happen if he doesn't fuck. Even for the vote on the results of Hellenism, after having made a series of fucked-ups when they were in the government, he now got used to doing the opposition too. Ask Mr. Army why he left, why exactly are you politically unreliable. Putting the make news and using unreserved information still to find a first chance to hit the police, we don't do it in favor of youth. Youth voted open universities. She couldn't find the universities doing her homework. She didn't find any prospects to get a job at her place. They had to unravel and get the youth abroad. This is what anyone who wants to give perspective, jobs, wealth and prosperity to young people, build their dreams, root here, not take their dreams and do it abroad. I hear the criticism - listen - that SYRIZA is a better opposition, because it makes us a better opposition to Greek-Turkish instead of the opposition that New Democracy made in Prespes. Good. I'm sure the Greek people will agree. Stay in the opposition for three or four years, because you're doing so well. So we will all agree, and we will be able to go further. But as a government, you didn't deliver anything. Investments that had been frozen years, national issues that with such diligence you have managed, tax increased with twenty-nine new taxes and that half of the Greeks are going to owe the IRS and the ELKA. Even in the tourist year that started with such bad omens, since you hadn't even started advertising despite June this year, we already achieved the most important goal. The year came back and we already caught the revenues all over 2018 in spite of the bankruptcy of "THOMAS COOK". I am presenting for the Minutes a graph supporting the elements of table 1.4 of the balance, which the report shows that while in the nine months of 2017 we were EUR 200 million below the 2016 revenue and in the nine months of 2018 we were EUR 500 million below the revenue in 2017, we are already a little above the revenues of 2018. In other words, we reverse the course and while going down, now we have reached zero and I'm sure we will go better over the next few years. [[At this point, the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is what you do when you work systematically to bring the results for the sake of Greek tourism, for the sake of the well-being of the country, for the sake of growth and jobs. But we don't stop there. The winter campaign for "City Break" is already running for Athens and Thessaloniki, and in this way we want to give even more impetus to two destinations, which have a lot to offer for travellers who will decide to visit our country and in winter. We have already completed the design with the EOT so that we can launch a campaign in January 2020. The campaign's running now. It will be completed by the end of the year and on 10 January the next one will begin. For the first time in the EOT's chronicles, we're starting so early, practically without a gap. All this, while we had to manage the bankruptcy of 'Thomas COOK', bringing provisions for the benefit of businesses and workers. The success of this year therefore responds to the badly relied criticism we had to face on the part of Officerial Opposition. We have also updated the marketing plan, if you prefer the marketing plan, of Greek tourism for the period 2020-2021. We have established by extending the deadline for classifying hotels. We have prepared and started implementing a strategic approach plan with China, especially on tourism issues. With our dynamic entry into this market, we are aiming at approaching five hundred thousand visitors by 2012. We adapted the provisions for Brexit, providing for arrangements to protect the interests of Greek tourist enterprises. We are completing the drafting of a strategic plan for the sustainable and balanced development of Santorini as a world destination. We are already present in all the international reports and will continue to be. We complete the design of the new online ticket for archaeological - museum sites, in collaboration with the EFF and the Ministry of Digital Policy. We are implementing a promotion programme for medical and health tourism, as well as welfare tourism. We remove the obstacles to the development of anortic, diving and other specific forms of tourism. We also identified several medical sources throughout Greece. Finally, we signed important agreements to launch new lines in 2020, Shanghai - Athens, Bahrain - Mykonos and I am just announcing from here, from the Step of the House, the new Doha - Santorini line, while we are working on other lines, as you know very well. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we are not stopping here. For the new year, we have five strategic objectives that we want to promote and achieve with our actions. Firstly, promoting sustainable tourism. We'll be announcing more next time. However, I can say from now on that the Ministry of Tourism will become a platic free to give everyone the signal of the necessary adaptations to the environment. Secondly, quality education, with radical changes in the landscape of tourism education at all levels. Thirdly, accessible tourism, with the promotion of accommodation, which is a disabled person. We're all disabled people. We will become elderly, pregnant, some will have an accident, except those with permanent disabilities. We are all of us and cannot be excluded from the tourist product. New investments, such as the ones we announced today in the Interministerial Committee on Strategic Investments of 1 billion, which create almost two thousand jobs in tourism, for the benefit of society. Finally, new digital tools promoting newly-born businesses. For example, I have been in Boston these days, and I promote the linking of 'CAPSULET' actions, which is the incubator of the Hotel Chamber, with organisations that exist in Boston, so that these businesses, once they are a little developed in our country, can be interconnected with Boston, the centre of the United States innovation. A number of tourism companies, such as TRIP ADVISOR, KAYAK and others, who have had the opportunity to see them, are in Boston and can very much help these new companies to grow. All of this is under the umbrella of our strategic tourism plan, one of the first commitments of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which we are working on in 2020 and which will have a horizon from 2021 to 2030. It is a project based on sustainable development, product diversification, expansion of the season, the emergence of new destinations, the strengthening of value added and, hence, the pay of workers in the sector and, of course, the strengthening of the country as a whole. The strategic plan is based on seven pillars. Pillar first: accessibility and interconnectivity on both the natural and the digital axis. Pillar two: private infrastructure and sustainable management and development. Third pillar: public infrastructure and experience management. Pillar four: education and training of human resources. Pillar fifth: product development, promotion and promotion. Pillar 6: Collaborative Governance. Pavilion Seventh: regulatory and regulatory framework for coding legislation and analysis of all gaps. This budget, ladies and gentlemen, supports the work of the Ministry of Tourism, which lays the foundations for the framework on which the country's new tourist model will be based. It supports, after increasing the public investment expenditure from 24 million to 33 million, an increase of 38%. Overall, the budget, tactical and PPP, is 70 million and will cover a number of critical activities for our tourism product, the image of the country in international markets and the development of skills for workers in the sector. The aim, ladies and gentlemen, of the Ministry of Tourism, is to draw up the strategy of the next decade and at every opportunity, and I will repeat that this is our national case and does not fit into any micro-participatory purposes. It's time for action and not for words. We owe it to our country, we owe it to the next generations. For this reason, I urge you to vote in favour of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u323	Mr Konstantinos Bogdanos is called in Vima from New Democracy and Mrs Anastasia Gara is also the last speaker in the eleventh cycle. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first budget of the New Democracy Government and Mr Mitsotakis reveals in the most resounding and undeniable way the enormous qualitative difference that separates us from the ideology and deep anti-social experiments of the previous government. For five years, the SYRIZA government has added new and unnecessarily burdens to the backs of the Greeks, bleeding from conscious choice in the middle class, cancelling every development initiative, enlisted hundreds of thousands of our compatriots in unemployment and the hostage of allowances and sent so many others abroad in search of better destiny. All of this is not due to an unrecognised failure. It's much more the inevitable result of how the Left sees the world. The former Treasury Minister himself stated from this here at the Step that the idea that to redistribute wealth you must first produce it is foreign to the ideology of his resignation. To grow the pie is to the left indifferent. The important thing is to change the distribution of the tracks, even if everyone ends up taking a smaller piece. So let's dare say things with their name. Left, everywhere and always, means redistribution of poverty and levelling down, because poverty, impoverishment and exclusion just provide the left with its vital space and fanaticism with its rhetoric. Fake news, labels, screams, whoever's not with us is far-right, neoliberal, fascist. Fortunately, young people turn your back. We see it in the elections, both student and national in an emphatic way. Do you think you're touching Millennials with molotovs and violence in schools and streets? They're turning your back. Because we were referring to a post here today, which smells like this experiential post and make news, I offer myself to find the girl, who's reportedly stripped of policemen in the center of Athens, I make the parliamentary report and we move the procedures for the disciplinary prosecution of these police officers. It will not happen, however, because it will not go ahead, because I fear that this story either does not exist or is another story that has been overthrown for communication reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u325	And how do you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u326	I told you 'I'm afraid.' If it's not the case...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u327	Any compassion? Any interest in our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u328	Sympathy? Regularity, application of the rules...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Bogdano, go on. Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u330	Application of the rules, such as those you do not apply. Rules everywhere and always. He said it in his first speech here from this sacred Step by Mr.Mitsotakis: Our rules are our rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u331	A fundamental rule of Parliament is not to engage in dialogue between you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u332	Left means one more thing: Because they just can't and don't want to exaggerate the very rich, because capital always finds a way out of where it's not welcome, the bride pays the middle class. The so-called inequality consummations mean equalization everywhere and always. The budget that we are debating today goes in the opposite direction. By election we committed to Greeks and Greeks for substantially lower taxes, to boost household income, for more real well-paid jobs, through investment, through growth to restore stability, regularity and optimism. And already, this clear change of course bears fruit. We moved faster than expected to reduce the EMS. We have covered the budget gap of about 400 million inherited from the previous government. We have created a financial area to bring forward stimulation measures for the economy. For the first time, Greece is negotiating securities at a negative interest rate. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not interested in sharing crumbs from a pie that is constantly shrinking. Our aim is to raise the pie for everyone, by reducing taxes, by attracting new investments, by tackling poverty and exclusion with the most effective tool that we have the minimum guaranteed income and, at the same time, by supporting the backbone of the country, which is no other than the middle class, by encouraging every creative effort, by combating, day after day, waste, bureaucracy, introducing quality, efficiency and evaluation on every aspect of public life, thereby ensuring that the new Greeks and Greeks are visible to a future of creation, promotion, prosperity within the country, not abroad, where they have been resorted for years. I stress here that at a very critical juncture for the nation, the fair and the interests of Hellenism, we are additionally strengthening the critical areas of national defence, education, health and social security. We are strengthening Greece to meet the challenges of the present and the legitimate expectations for the future. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Government was lucky to be able to move into an environment of international economic expansion and that fate has been kicked. We remember: Not getting into the QE, nothing happened. And yet it has been done and we are now moving into a much more restrictive international economic treaty and we are already bringing many better results. But I dare say - and I shall conclude by this step - the following provision. Already from time to time, when, God willing, we will discuss the budget of the emblematic 2021 in each, but every indicator is the performance of today's government will be significantly more positive. It is not a matter of omensity, it is a matter of economic logic and, indeed, of liberal ideology. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u333	Thank you. Now Mrs. Gara has the floor from SYRIZA. And let me inform you that today we will arrive to Mr. Eleftherios Avramakis. Here, Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u334	Dear and dear colleagues, you will allow me to take the opportunity from the question raised by a previous colleague, Mr Gikas, if I am not mistaken and ask us whether we have seen the polls on what professionals say, what traders say, in relation to the market, and whether they are much more optimistic. In my turn, I would like to call on the good and good colleagues to take a walk to the market in Alexandroupolis, Orestia, the Dumos and ask professionals and dealers about the messages that will give you about how the market is going in this period. Unfortunately, the messages they send to us are not as optimistic as you described. We may have different information, of course. However, I would urge you to come down from the pink nice cloud made by the pollsters and the media. To land in reality and to tackle the country's real problems with serious policies. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore have a budget in our hands, which is the second budget outside memorials, and yet it is a budget, which looks like a budget within a memorandum regime. Although the New Democracy has created several expectations with false promises to the budget, its clear denial is reflected. She's photographing her political deception. You have promised, gentlemen, alleviations to the middle class and support for the weak. You promised to abolish taxes. You promised growth, but development for who? You promised enough. But the reliefs and support to the middle class have been disproved, the social state and the protection net to the weak are slowly falling apart, growth is only for your few very wealthy friends, your excellence through the old-fashioned and customer system returns back to the country. At the same time, spending on your ministerial offices is increasing, the operating cost of the government's presidency triples, a state-owned system is being created, only for your own children, transparency and dignity go for a walk from our country, Diagnostic and Father is your real staff, the sale of the country is your first priority and you declare it by your own ministers, returning to your normality is a fact, of course, promoting return to the crisis, inequality, poverty, but also the memoranda. The bride, of course, will unfortunately pay once again the low and medium layers. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the budget you are bringing to debate does not include fair and sustainable development policies, no policies are recorded that incorporate environmental protection, despite Mr Mitsotakis' fine words, no policies of support for production and labour or even investment are recorded. Your policy is affected by young people, workers, farmers, middle-class and small and medium-sized enterprises. More specifically, I shall refer to a number of areas. In the agricultural sector, the budget, unfortunately, is reduced by 50 million, money which is deprived of the development element in the agricultural sector. There is no tax reduction on the cooperative farmers, as already set out in SYRIZA. Mr Mitsotakis' announcement of a discount on agricultural oil has disappeared, a measure which was also set at SYRIZA. Did you deceive the farmers and that? Also, unfortunately, there is no provision for the recruitment of the necessary one hundred and eighty permanent veterinarians and peaches, with this notice being in the air. In the field of education now, a reduction is recorded for public education infrastructures and universities. Fruits, the hopes you have created for the construction of new kindergartens and kindergartens, the maintenance of school units, which mainly support young parents. The forecasts lead to privatisation and tuition even in primary and secondary education. You can't hide that either. By your mouth of ministers and this. Reduction is even recorded in the actions of sport and culture, which are necessary for our youth. In addition, no financial credits for recruitment of staff shall be recorded either in general or in special proceedings, false promises made by the New Democracy and here. Even in the health sector, however, expenditure on new recruitments is foreseen. As far as the funding of research is concerned, unfortunately, we have a dramatic reduction in the budget by returning to levels of four years ago. If we take all of this into account and your employment policy, as well as the limitation of the social state, it is confirmed that young people are completely absent from your political strategy and your interest. So there is no provision for the four thousand jobs created through OAS programmes and they are already in force. So you predict plus four thousand unemployed in our country. The OAS budget is very low, so there is no new support programme for work, especially for young scientists. New posts well paid promised Mr. Mitsotakis. They don't look in the budget. There is no mention, too, of increasing the minimum wage, of another deception of the New Democracy toward young people. At the same time, there is a reduction in the total benefits, namely, the reduction of the preferential allowances for HEIs, family allowances, the rental allowance. It is noted that the oil, heating, already decreased while PPC's accounts increased. At the same time, the transport equivalent for island regions is abolished. And I ask: When one of the biggest social problems is demographic, how exactly do you restrain its reverse course? Even the birth allowance, which you are establishing and which is positive, does not cover the actual needs with the amount you budget, while, as I said, you are reducing family allowances at the same time. Let's go to business now - and you will give me another minute, Mr President - where there is the great deception of the middle class from New Democracy. In fact, the reduction in the tax on catering, which you promised, in fact, by the mouth of today's Prime Minister, to what corridor was lost? Are we talking or not about cheating here too? Are you, gentlemen, reducing taxation, but does the reduction involve small and medium-sized enterprises? No, of course not. Only 2%, very large businesses will see real reductions. In the mid-stages, relief will be from EUR 17 per month to EUR 17 per year, and employees will see the dramatic reduction of EUR 2. The great slaughter, of course, of the middle class, apparently, from the government's announcements, will come with the insurance. What else does the middle-class budget provide for? Increase in the tax on natural persons, revenues from the fine for 30% on cards and Airbnb, increase in HICP from the adjustment of the objective values. In addition, the budget does not include the abolition of a trade fee, the abolition of a solidarity levy and the reduction of the advance payment of tax, which SYRIZA had budgeted, necessary for the small and medium-sized ones. At the same time, you are greatly reducing the social dividend for thousands of beneficiaries, creating a problem in strengthening consumption and the small local market. Finally, Ministers, in April 2019, the SYRIZA Government adopted a resolution on the establishment of the Development Bank. In this draft law, Article 41 provides for aid in the form of a grant to cover operating costs of small and micro-enterprises operating at the border and in less developed areas. The money was already secured by the SYRIZA Government and the program is vital for businesses in remote areas, as is Evros. Will you apply the law? Will you go on strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises? Nothing is described in your budget. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen - and I close, Mr President - the budget that we are debating today is anti-developmental, anti-liberal, anti-social and deep memorial. The first New Democracy budget reflects the era of deception, transaction, end of disguise, end of false promises. Return to the Client Monument Right, then. Thank you for your tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u335	The Minister for Development has asked for the floor. He will be given after four speakers. I mean, we're gonna have a five-speaking circle with Mrs. Gara and talk after Mr. Pana. Mr Bartzokas from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, last year, around the same time, the then government of SYRIZA predicted that the budget for 2019 would be the last to hamper the economic development of the country. He was absolutely right, because the New Democracy rule changed this landscape. The draft law on the state budget for 2020 is not another attempt to make it this year too. It is an organized and realistic plan to get through to the times of the best days. We are entitled to them after ten years of sacrifice. The question now is just one: Development and opportunities for all. We have received this mandate from the Greek people and we are building the programme of public policies on it. Our country is no longer in the void. There is a strong, self-government government, which takes a step forward in its commitments. For its next year, its guide will be the state budget we are discussing these days. It's a different budget, it has another philosophy. His strategy focuses on attracting investment. For this reason, his plan is clear, as is the timetable for its implementation. That's how it's going to work. We've left behind anachronistic dilemmas. We know very well that our prosperity depends on investment. This is the only way. The comparative advantages of our country are data. But we have not used them efficiently. There is no room to continue not to use them. We have rich land, we have manpower with great skills that perpetuates abroad, and we deprive them of them. So the major issue is to make good use of them, to open our door to investment. There's no other way. We learned it the hardest, unfortunately, way. The next day that the 2020 state budget introduces must unlock the productive forces in all productive sectors. First of all, starting from the primary sector, we are all aware of its contribution to development. Greece was and will remain a rural country and there is nothing wrong with it. Many of us in this Chamber come from rural areas, which is why we first know the dynamics of the primary sector, the role that can be played as a lever for growth, the synergies that it can create with tourism, with processing, with all sectors of the economy. However, we also know the problems of the rural world, which prevent it from becoming a protagonist. The farmer of Imathia, for example, ladies and gentlemen, is primarily the same investor. He's investing in the earth. This is his property, and in previous years, unfortunately, has not only had to deal with the distorting tax system, the delays in compensation, the huge insurance contributions, the changes in the weather, the changes that one year rewards his purposes and the next may be confronted with destruction. He had to deal, unfortunately, with disrespect, with his treatment as a poor relative. He left himself in his luck. I speak with Imathia's farmers every day and everyone is interested in investing in their crops, everyone is interested in developing and contributing to the development of the country. Everyone knows that if they are not modernized and do not adopt modern methods of agriculture, they will not be able to adapt to the new needs. They don't miss self-awareness. What's missing is vision, is the field of opportunity. That's what we need to create. This, after all, is what the young people of this country need. Their escape abroad was not a vengeance act. It was a despair act, it was their answer to our unsolved problems, our deadlocked policies. This opportunity must also be created for the Greek small and medium-sized businessman of the focus, the tourist business, for every free trader, the professional who provides medical and legal services, all those who, with asymmetric weights, have kept the Greek state up. The draft state budget for 2020 finally creates opportunities for all sectors of the Greek economy to recover, which is why it is a completely different budget than the previous years. It does not only reflect the radical difference of perception at economic policy level. It shows, above all, how differently we understand the Greek citizen. For us, the Greek citizen does not match the version of the allowance dependant, does not match the European citizen without a voice, does not match the person responsible for the economic crisis that we have experienced. On the contrary, we believe that Greeks are worthy. We believe in their skills and dynamics and know about their thirst for progress, healthy progress in conditions of freedom. That is why we are seeking to create the sound framework within which they develop their abilities. Already with a grid of horizontal tax reliefs we have managed to reverse the negative climate that has been created. The citizens now have confidence in us. At the same time, however, we have not forgotten social justice nor will we. We're close to everyone. We demonstrate that economic freedom is combined with social justice. There's no dilemma between them. Ladies and gentlemen, with the ratification of the state budget the year we are spending closes just as the next one will open, with optimism. The best days are here. We've already returned a page. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u337	Thank Mr Bartzokas for his time and continue with Mr Sarakiotis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is customary for the budget of a new government to reflect the change of philosophy in relation to the administration of the country's budgets, the change of philosophy that a party claiming the power in the election is analyzing our fellow citizens thoroughly and comes after the victory in the elections to implement it. You have, however, only managed five months after the elections and in your first budget, to disprove all the commitments you have made in the election. Just a few days before the elections, Mr. Mitsotakis emphatically stressed that "The New Democracy next day will effectively cancel the disastrous policy of overcrowding". After the country's governance took place, the debate on the surpluses was forgotten. In the bells, reviewing the overcrowds! You have promised, in addition, a growth of 4%, reassuring everyone that it is an extremely feasible and effective objective. You come back to the first budget and lower the bar and take it to 2.8%. But this 2.8% reminds us of something. 2.8% was the rate of growth index on an annual basis, which you received in the second quarter of 2019 from SYRIZA. And you come to tell us, you of growth and the pro-investors, that after a year and a half in the governance of the country you will be able to achieve the same percentage that we gave you a few months ago. Election, of course, also constantly invoked the middle class, whose expectations had collapsed very soon. I wonder what you are going to say to small and medium-sized businessmen, whom you have set rich tax reliefs, when the budget you are tabling is cancelled, as 80% of the reductions are directed only at 2.5% of the companies. The 450 million of the 550 million will be provided for small and mere investments. After all, the publications of your adjacent media friends, such as "Kathemerini", confirm what I said. Medium income is left out of tax evaporation. Let's get some examples. One employee with an annual income of EUR 19,000 and a child will benefit from the astronomical sum of EUR 20 per year. It seems that the well-advertised breath you give it, and in no case is that the breath you give someone, who presents incomes of 800 thousand euros, will see a tax relief of 9,100 euros. That is, 20 euros each, 9,100 euros each. But I do not want to blame you as you are actively on the side of each Greek family, as you have made a commitment in the election, you have legislated and your priority was to reduce from 45% to 22% of the transfers of the OEMs and the OEMs. After all, each family has a president of OPE or OEM, who makes transfers of 400-500 thousand euros and you stand on his side. You have also promised many well-paid jobs. But besides the communication show to attract five hundred scientists from abroad, what else have you done? We see that there has been absolutely no mention of the increase in the minimum wage. We have a record of job losses in October 2019, as shown by the official figures of "ERGANI", a negative record of eighteen years. We also see a reduction in the amount for the financing programmes of the OAED. But I do not want to be unfair in this area either, because your own children, as you have always been aware, are taking care of them, and now you are making an increase to EUR 7 500, only of the remuneration of high-ranking public agencies. Privileges of EUR 7,500 to your own children, indifference to the three and a half thousand young scientists, who, through a SYRIZA government program, are still running critical services today. It seems, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that you have allergies to the real degrees. Now let's see the great investment in Greek. Your promises prove fraud there too. In the first week, we were told by the current Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, who will take over the rule of the country, that we will see bulldozers in the Greek. It's been five months, not just bulldozers, we haven't seen a shovel in Greek. Well, that's all it was. We read in the past days statements by the President and CEO of the 'HARD ROCK', the global colossus which participates in the competitive process for the casino, and which, strangely, denounces you - for opaque procedures. I'm wondering, too. What matters most to investors, a statement by the President of a colossal, such as the 'HARD ROCK', who denounces opaque procedures in the conduct of a tender or the daily positions of Ministers in Greek channels? How will investors come? Obviously not by seeing Greek channels and ministers to call for investment. You certainly have the Know - How and you have given your credentials and in the past into corresponding competitive procedures. It doesn't surprise us. As you have the knows-how and the depreciation of public enterprises, such as PPC, without under any circumstances compromising the cost of citizens. Because if you were really interested in the Greek society, at least, the burden not only of the middle layers, but of all, of every house, of every business, of increasing PPC tariffs. And we are in the same work as the largest nickel producer, not only in Greece, in Europe, in Larco. After undermining and regularly undermining PPC's future, you are now coming and you are undermining, operating with the same practice, the future of LARCO. The deceitful statements of the Minister of Energy are coming to supplement the slandering publications on various sites and newspapers and so you are resurrecting the 2014 plan for hairbending, without any interest in what will become of thousands of workers, who have been supporting this big company over the years. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that the mixture of policy being pursued does not solve the real problems of Greek society, I am voting against the 2020 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u339	Thank Mr. Sarakiotis for his time. Mr Blucho has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget strategy's main priority for 2020 is to increase growth, reduce over-taxation, strengthen investment and the public's available income and support for vulnerable social groups, while, of course, ensuring that the budgetary objectives contained in the conditions of enhanced supervision are achieved. The Public Investment Programme is aimed at implementing a wide range of actions that enhance public structures, health and education, transport and communications, energy and the environment, modernising public services, prioritising the digital transformation of public administration, with a view, finally, to improving and substantially strengthening its productivity. Today, taxpayers want to know how the resources they give the state are used and how their management is linked to the desired result. The attention focuses not on what resources the State has access to, but on what is produced by the government with these resources. It is also necessary in Greece to change radically, to regenerate towards economic, administrative and in general, operating things, such as our conception of the state and what this should or should not be. Freedom and absolute protection of property rights are absolutely essential, which in themselves means to minimize the colossal state bureaucratic, trade union, dispopular interventionism, an intact and without limits of peculiarism. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, the Syrian modernist, radical Left has the inclination to think of itself alone as a cause of noise, of health, welfare, labour rights, of all wrongdoers, as Roides would say: "Anybody who is close to fountain stayed there all night, thinks that of it, all the water he heard is being expelled. " In this context, a left-wing economic mind formed its own autistic reality, denying in a way unscientific and dogmatic, full of illusions and complete mismatch with common sense. This psychosis of your exclusive truth has made your Left in vain, sick and boring. The worst thing, however, is the mutation of your left love in narcissism, in politeness and inner deposition of your moral advantage. What you do for yourself is your right. But do not strive to convince any misplaced escorts in your vast and slow ideological desert that your social sign is water and that the thirst of society itself is probably the result of error and distortion. Kyriakos Mitsotakis has been constantly saying that we must aim and operate in another logic, with a rationalisation of the investment and fiscal framework, so as to allow the middle-class to unlock entrepreneurship and finally to retain the brilliant minds that go away by offering them the opportunity to function, bloom and produce in our country. Your incoherence, however, is limited by an intellectually disciplined process of active and skilled conception, reading and imprinting of reality to facilitate you in any fruitful action. The consequence of these is the greenhouse for changing the meaning of words and the prevalence of lying as a political choice, leading you to the fortification of your thought and your ascension to the sphere of fantasy. So after giving your choices of a messian character once, convinced that you have the model of ideal development, despite your revealing thought, you have failed. Why? Why have you adopted your most unscrupulous criticisms of liberalism - absolute paradox - and plunged into immoral despair. A lot has been said about the social sign and the budget, but also about yours. For the budget what it is will be demonstrated in the perspective of time. As far as you are concerned, you have done nothing for all these years in terms of welfare, public health, the national health system. But we have celebrated your ideological tribulations and your dreaming sighs. You agree with inertial forces and have simply run a situation with supposed injections to the National Health System. I'm glad the former Minister is here. You've caused insights, functional, i.e. failures. The situation of hospitals throughout the country is evidenced. You maintained irrationality and attacked the fall in quality services. Why? Because you numbered the health professionals, Mr. former Minister. You have shown disrespect, you have not even been able to trace the definition of health quality, the quality of the predictive structures. This is why you are urging the logic of numbers, while the reconstitution and reconstruction of the ERC is primarily quality assurance. To ensure quality, your left krone is not enough and it is not just a matter of costs or recruitment. And I guess the National Health System's bleeding a lot longer than you've transfused on recruitment issues. Radical reforms are now required in a crashed HSH at the Primary Health Care. Not to talk about the mortal TOMY, to the non-existent, but so necessary, medieval structures. The National Health System, ladies and gentlemen, has been held and is still being held by the exaggeration, the zeal, the self-determination that they are displaying - if not all, but all of them have been assembled - by health professionals, doctors and our nurses. And that was, gentlemen of the opposition, your non-existence and your management logic and your security. But don't hang on to any other forces you've yet lived in the system. And luckily now the government has changed. Because health professionals can no longer run caterpillars and pneumatics. Many suffering has accumulated in a system that has never been reformed since its birth. But the time has come, with this government, for its radical reconstruction. With the tax and development bills - which have already been passed - and in addition to this budget, we are touching regularity. And what does that mean in real terms? It means fewer taxes, more and better investments, costs that get place. That is the philosophy of this budget. The economy and society, gentlemen, have grown. The private initiative with the supervision of the state renders where the state failed over and over again. And tax reliefs and additional expenditure forecasts in critical areas state a budget for responsibility, a budget for consistency of reasons and projects and, above all, a perspective budget. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u341	Mr Panos now has the floor from the Change Movement. Here comes the Minister of Development. Here, Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, during the first few months of New Democracy's governance, we have seen all kinds of communication tricks on the part of the ruling party. Representatives and government officials do not get tired of doing heavy statements of impression about their success in combining philosophical profiles with the development direction of society. But the project, ladies and gentlemen, does not seem to be coming out. Since the financial data on the accounts, the balance sheet and finally the budget for 2020, which we are debating today, speak for themselves. The budget for 2020 following the tax bill passed a few days ago comes to complete the falsified government's development line with an allegedly social figure. Our criticism was already clear during the debate on the tax bill, where we directly formulated the government's failure to fuel the economy with real growth incentives. To alleviate small and mediumsized incomes and create new jobs. Instead, tax-reliefs eventually turn into increases in taxes on goods and services by EUR 979 million, as well as an increase in personal income tax by EUR 264 million. This evidence demonstrates that the government is basically identical to the SYRIZA government's policy, keeping up the objectives of the primary surpluses, for the renegotiation of which we have not stopped shouting for months. The surplus therefore remains at 3.5% of GDP by 2022, since Mr Mitsotakis chose not to renegotiate, but to exploit it to distribute surpluses. This budget cannot therefore be considered a development budget. Because - and it is a permanent position of the Change Movement - without the reduction of surpluses, there can be no growth. Nor is it a fair social budget, because it provides for EUR 773 million more for 2020 than for the 2019 estimates. Greek consumers will be charged with an additional EUR 638 million VAT and 88 million excise duties, although a VAT reduction package from 24% to 13% was institutionalised in May 2019. In other words, the Greek taxpayer will pay an additional EUR 323 million in income tax and EUR 84 million in real estate taxes. These additional taxes will, according to the government, be extracted from the broadening of the tax base in order to achieve the fiscal target of 3.5% of GDP. We therefore conclude again that such high budgetary targets do not bring growth to the economy or relief to society. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, being in charge of the rural development sector of the Change Movement, I would like to focus on the budget section concerning the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Therefore, by combining the code called ‘allocated appropriations’ mentioned within the budget and the table with the figures for the implementation of the budget for the months of October and November 2019, I regret to note that: Firstly, the reference to ‘reported credit’ is general and vague and it is not clear where these amounts will be made available. Secondly, no credit or category of expenditure to upgrade and substantially assist the agricultural sector is explicitly mentioned in the budget table. This picture is supplemented by the tables of the Ministry of Rural Development with the budget implementation data for the indicative months October and November 2019, where it appears that for the ‘for the costs for education and training’ category, as well as for the ‘appropriations for the implementation of actions, programmes’ and ‘appropriations for programme expenditure financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development’ have been consolidated and paid zero euros. So this is how to achieve the objectives of strengthening the primary sector announced by the relevant Minister? Where will resources be raised to deal with climate change, which is causing extreme weather and disastrous for agricultural crops? How and when does the Ministry expect to make use of European programmes for the funds from the European Agricultural Fund? As far as at least this Ministry is concerned, the data are frustrating, as expectations of investment in the primary sector and the setting up of an applicable national climate change plan are disputing. In contrast, we have enclosures at operational costs of the administrative structures under the Ministry. Let's go to my place of origin in Halkidiki, which has been struggling to close its wounds from the natural disasters of recent months. The needs are enormous and must be addressed immediately. In the agricultural sector of the county it is imperative to provide facilities for the producers' financial and insurance obligations, as well as to pay compensation at the same time as planning the necessary advances. In terms of infrastructure and projects expenditure, financing for road maintenance is infinite, and there is no substantial funding for the development of new roads. The lack of planning and investment in the construction of anti-military works is obvious. But now, after destructive floods occur, their existence is more necessary than ever. At the same time, there is a need to draw up a new water supply plan, as a large part of Halkidiki is unable to meet needs, not only in drinking water, but also in irrigation of crops. And here again comes the issue of the so-called Habria dam, which is a development perspective for the Halkidiki Prefecture. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that the State's budget for 2020 should be able to provide for shortcomings in projects that favour sustainable development, environmental protection, quality of life for citizens, the progress of producer and businessman. Under no circumstances should it be caught in close technological goals and economic data without a developmental impact, without a real investment in a more modern way of life for the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr. Pana for the time. It is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after having been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way the House organizes and operates, fifty-two students and students and four educational attendants from the 4th Komotini High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u344	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many years of age, Merry Christmas, we all have health. I have said once again that the debate in this House is of interest and can be extremely fruitful if it is done on real issues. And we can disagree very ideologically, but we cannot disagree about the truth. I say this because I have heard Mr Sarakiotis, who is very sympathetic to me, but you have all said the same story that Mr Mitsotakis is inconsistent with his election commitments, because he had said that the 35% target will be reduced and that we have a target of 3.5%, so Mitsotakis has lied, etc. I am presenting myself in the Minutes to Mr Sarakiotis - he may not know that - dated 2-5-2019, from the outset. I read what the Chief of Staff Responsibility said about the surpluses, now Prime Minister: "In this context, he declares that the government that will emerge after the national elections will negotiate a change in the targets so that the new lower surplus will take effect from 2021." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Sarakiotis, ladies and gentlemen, as much as looking for another government which has literally respected what he said in the election, you will not find. I am twelve years in the Chamber, I have been in discussions too many times because a government was not finally able to implement what it said in the election. The top moment of all times is, of course, delusional. Because, you know, when you're from SYRIZA and accuse someone that he didn't respect his election commitments, he touches the limits of the comic book. But, anyway, I want to answer the comic. So the only government that I have lived in the House that has literally followed what he said in election is the government of Mr Mitsotakis. Even faster than promises. In other words, while our election commitment has been to reduce HISPHA since the 1920s, the decline has taken place since 19. While our election commitment was a 4% reduction in the tax on businesses from the use of the 1920s, it was made from the use of 19. So, please, you can accuse us of what you want, but not of what we have said. You come to tell me "you said '21 and we don't see '21 fall, it will decrease '22' there has some interest. The other is, Mr Sarakiotis, a lie and it is not worth the House being a MP and being in this sacred step and lying to you in your knowledge. Let's go to second. You said again, but I also respond to a general philology that exists in the press, because it is of great interest to the development of the Greek economy for 2020. The complaints of the company ‘HARD ROCK’ for the tender for the Greek company were reported. First of all, let's say good-byes. A moment ago, at five o'clock this afternoon, it was completed - as I am hearing - with great success - that the company will be given official announcements - the increase in the capital of the company 'LAMDA'. The news is, not positive, extremely positive. This means that all the paraphilis that moved around Greece and a lot of people in Ethiopia, supposedly the company has no money to make the investment, has already passed on to the timeline of history, to use an expression of the relentless Andreas Papandreou. The company collected the money from a public equity increase process and, despite the grievance of some, the program for investment in Greek is precisely in the timetable we have set since the first moment. As far as the complaint is concerned, I do not want to escape at all. Indeed, one company in a public interview, which is why I can comment on it, made a complaint about the legal advisers of the Committee on Games and blames them for a conflict of interest. Of course everyone has the right to go to Greek justice and to rule Greek justice if what he says is true or false. If this company does, I say it to have fun today's articles, it means about a month's delay. Ten days will each party under the law have an appeal against the committee's decision and another twenty days have the court to make a decision. So we are again within a timeframe, because we have budgeted this, because so far there has been no public tender without recourse to Greece. So he was in the program. But I have to tell you, Mr Colleague, that you are probably completely uninformed here. Firstly and above all, because the Committee on Games, which you are accustomed to, and the legal advisers, the 'KLC' company, hired by the Committee on Games, has not been hired by me and by our Government, nor have I, or by our Government, appointed the Committee on Games. The Committee on Gaming has been appointed by the signature Eukleidis Tsakalotou. It was our political decision that the same committee should remain, so that we would not get into the process of saying that we want to play games. If the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities has now appointed it, you can blame him. I don't think it's a ribbon, they have my absolute trust. As far as the ‘KLC’ you are accustomed to is concerned, Mr Tsakalotos has been chosen again by public international competition. Excuse me, you come to the Chamber and you blame your Minister in this way, do you humiliate him like this, saying it's a loot for the people that Chakalotos put in? Aren't you ashamed? Aren't you partners? To finish the story, we wise poets from the outset did not hurt any of your people, none of them, nor "ELLENIC" in the committee, nor in the lawyers, nor in anything. So gather together the various "Cluzos" you're looking for again for scandal! Because if there's a scandal, it'll be yours! I would like to make it clear, however, that this is just a little dirt and I regret that this kind of reference has been made in the House, and Mr Tsakalotos understands how horrible it is - there is no issue with the competition or any issue with this law firm. The invitation to tender has fully complied with the lawfulness, we have complete confidence that the procedures, as provided for by Greek and international law, have been followed, and we are absolutely certain that, when the committee reaches a decision, if any of the parties concerned resort to justice, we believe that everything will be judged to be legally and not illegally, there is no problem. The goal, ladies and gentlemen, remains at the beginning of 2020 to finally get the well-founded bulldozer and start the works in the Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u345	Not a bulldozer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u346	And so I come to make a summary... What did you say, Mr. Kegeroglu? I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u347	Not with a bulldozer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u348	With a bulldozer, we'll start and you'll be invited to take a picture next door. But now let's go see what's happened, let's know where we are and where we are. First of all, our budget has a target for 2020 - in our opinion - quite realistic - I would like to say, I would like to believe, will appear in a year that we will be here - and a little moderate, 2.8%. Why am I saying realistic and a little modest? This year we are running at 2%, I believe we will close with more than 2% - that is what the figures say so far - without any major investment that I will mention just now. Greek: It is completely mature, starting an investment that is its first phase is EUR 2.5 billion projects. Approximately EUR 1 billion is the projects to be executed in 2020. I have to tell you that today from the Northern Corfu City Quality Committee the last loose end for Kassiopi has passed. The work in Kassiopi was a project launched in 2012, we received it and this was completely stuck, the first authorisation from the AOC has been issued last Friday. If everything goes well, the City Council of North Kerkyras also votes in favour of the Committee on Quality of Life within the week, next week, in 2019, the projects will be able to start in North Corfu. Now we have the great work that we have already begun - not to say about what is coming, to say about what we have already done so far - we have started the opening process and completed the process of renovation of the Syrian shipyard, following the efforts of the former government, which I praised in my speech and everywhere, although - I do not want to expand here - they have delivered it to me at a point that was to shut up, but that does not matter. They said it's working, I don't have to say it. It is important that the inauguration took place and the shipyards are already working and going very well. We found a private investor who rented the Greek Sugar Industry. And that's where you left us a bomb. What kind of bomb for people to know? You have signed up with the customs producers, they have signed paper that they will sow the seeds to make beet on their own responsibility, without knowing whether there will be EBZ to receive their production, you left the government, EBZ, you left it in the '06b process' bankrupt and closed, and the customs producers will come to the Ministry and say 'we have a beet, now what to do with it?' However - and this is where the government operated keyly and decisively - we have found a private investor, already received the plant in Platy, will also be received by the Serres and will be intended to start production of sugar not by public money in March. I stress 'not public money', because unfortunately from the decisions of the SYRIZA Government, we already have a problem of State aid with the European Commission. It already came out in public consultation yesterday, the waterplanes bill. The target remains in 2020 to have waterplanes in Greece at last. I say this because the previous government had passed a law on waterplanes, Mr. Skourletis if I remember...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u349	Spirji.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u350	And Mr. Spirtzis. He was Mr. Skourlet at the beginning and Mr. Spirtzis then. Then all investors said that this law you built is to put waterplanes only for Kumunduru. Kumundur had no waterplanes, no waterplanes flew. Now we have created a law, in cooperation with the market, to meet the requirements of those who put the waterplanes and have waterplanes in 2020 in Greece. Great privatizations have already begun. As you know, the competition is running for the "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport, 30%, with a very transparent process, with ten major proposals from highly reliable foreign investors - I do not want to extend to how the previous SYRIZA administration process had gone, we all remember them, I pass it, because I do not want to be bad - we have already started and announced the privatisation of the SYRIZA infrastructure at 100%. And I would like to inform you that in January 2020 we will also begin the PPA for the Sale of Natural Gas, i.e. the retail and the entire privatisation program continues at a very high speed. And here I am also making a point about things I read and listen to. Others - uninformed obviously - wanting to support SYRIZA, but harm him, get out and blame me for saying that we will take the privatisation programme very quickly, and I said it at the 'CAPITAL LINK' conference in New York and I said, in fact, muddyly that our voters tell us to go faster. The privatisation program is not ours again. It's yours again. It's written in the program, I don't know if we'll call it a memorandum, I think we'll call it a Memorandum again, because I saw today that "HAY" made a statement and said "following the checks of the troika". I don't know if you've understood it, now suddenly the institutions have become troika. They were troika until 2015, they became institutions from 2015 to 2019, and now they become troika again. They're these magical SYRIZA, you know, they're linguists, there's no doubt, but of course that's what you understand that touches the limits of political fraud. The same people were like a troika, I saw them as a troika in 2014 and 2015, I used them as institutions in 2019, now I learn that I have to say Troika again. Decide on a name, anyway, so we can all be informed. But, for Parliament to know, all the measures of privatisation and the pace and procedure are agreed by the previous government, within the programme, with the signature of Tsakalotou, Stathakis, Tsipras and others. Consider only the difference: The difference is that you wrote them, but you did not, we will. That's a big difference to us. Now, you wrote it and you would do it, because you were unable to do it. You wrote them and didn't do them because you didn't want to. I leave this to you, that you wrote them to fool them out, that is, while you didn't actually want them to be, there's this possibility. We - and I will make it quite clear here, so that I can conclude with an ideological debate - ladies and gentlemen of the Left, we have never acted on the left, just like you have. You might be, I don't know, find them between you two. We have said from the outset that we are in favour of capitalism, the free economy and privatisation, and that is why we have been fighting a life from our students. We've always had you across the street shouting, now you've become government, you've sold it all out. Now we can go do the job as we should. You can't talk about them again, obviously, because you can't talk, when I have the video of my friend Paul Paul Paul, who says "I'll put my body in front, so the Germans won't take Chania airport" and the Chania airport was given to the Germans on Paul. So, obviously, you can't say that again. So in the ideological debate our ideas won. Who was the bearer of the victory of our ideas? Alexis Tsipras, because he humiliated your ideas and made them shreds and shreds. And who is he now to complete the victory of our ideas by applying them? Mr. Mitsotakis. So the privatisations will also be made - your privatisations will also be made - the big foreign investment - the ones that you have failed to bring - will unblock the big projects - the ones that you have been kicking and saying, they will be done, they will not be - and they will eventually be. And in the end all this will bring about a very great growth rate in 2020, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u351	Minister, you must finish. Do you still need time?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u352	I'll be right back. And as you have seen, the entire international press, the German press, the American press, the British press, the French press every day has articles in which it applauds the Mitsotakis Government, the change of investment climate and the great joy of international investors who at last see a government with which they can reach agreement. Yes, we are calling on them to invest in Greece and to live in 2020 an amazing year, with thousands of jobs and prosperity for the Greek people! Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u353	Thank you. Mr Balafas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u354	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u355	Wait a minute, Mr Balafa. Mr. Sarakiotis, why are you asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u356	There have been reports of my name. He mentioned my name ten times. While Mr. Georgiadis spoke 15 minutes, he didn't tell us in the end...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u357	The personal issue for you, what is it? Mr Sarakiotis, first tell me for a minute what your personal issue is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u358	He told me I'm not a reader and I'm lying from the Step of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u359	But you're not lying, you're not lying to any particular subject you're referring to. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u360	I mentioned that Mr. Georgiadis, even though he spoke for 15 minutes, did not tell us why this week passed and did not start the Greek. That's the first thing. Secondly, I had another opinion on the Minister, that he's a friend with the Americans, and that's positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u361	But we don't mind if he's a friend with the Americans. How did you personally insult you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u362	I see, however, that after the FBI, he is also taking spirals out with the "HARD ROCK". I don't know what happened. From there on July 17, the Minister told ERT about 4% growth...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u363	But, Mr Sarakiotis, it is not every time someone speaks from the Step of the House and refers to a person without personal information to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u364	He put in personal evidence, and I answer because he called me a liar. I say to him that on 17 July Mr Georgiadis at ERT he referred to growth of 4% in 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u365	All right, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u366	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u367	Minister, how have you been misunderstood?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u368	I'm clear there's no staff, but I like you too. I told you you lied. What point in particular? You claimed from the Holy Step of the Greek Parliament that Kyriakos Mitsotakis promised that if he took up his duties the target of 3.5% would be reduced, while I proved to you that the election commitment was to fall the target from 2021 and I submitted the relevant document to you. On this either you told the truth or you lied. Did you have anything to say? I say - and I repeat - that you lied. You probably don't read well. I said target 4% at the end of the four-year period. Indeed, we will go 2.8% in 2020, 3.5% in 2021 and 4% in 2022. I have it to keep it for your record.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u369	Good!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u370	Mr Balafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u371	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a very brief reference. Do not worry, I will not refer to the paradoxes of Mr Georgiadis. I shall refer to something a little while ago that a sympathetic to me, otherwise a member of the Government, who said that the New Democracy is in favour of private business, while we are against private business. My colleague is not present, and that is why I am not referring to him by name. This phrase contains two errors. First, the New Democracy is in favour of private business. There's an aggressive determination missing. The New Democracy is in favour of the state-run economy - not to say any more, for example, overlapping - private business. I would refer you to the latter in a very interesting public dialogue between two representatives of this State-owned business. It is therefore in favour of the state-owned, in favour of those who do business with the money of the Greek people and the sea loans and the wild loans. Let's go to the second mistake, that we're against it. We are in favour of healthy business. Business is a very serious activity. We are in favour of the undertaking that involves a risk, that the other puts his money, that he win - and I am happy - but he may lose, but we are in favour of this activity, not of the state-owned and interconnected that you and the place about it. I come to my text. I would like to make an introductory remark. Modern societies, ladies and gentlemen, and modern economies do not plan a one-year horizon, but they make choices with a look into the future. Globally, climate change has been discussing these years, the fourth industrial revolution is being discussed and, above all, digital and electronic developments. It is discussed how the fourth industrial revolution comes to change our lives, how algorithms and artificial intelligence have entered into our everyday lives, as well as the benefits and risks of a world given. So we all understand that if our country does not participate - I do not dare say if it does not take the lead - in these world changes we will remain very far behind. But what do we see, ladies and gentlemen? That a budget, which is not modern - I am referring to the previous one - is not part of a comprehensive serious planning, does not have any predictions of sustainable development in the biennial world. The budget that the government has brought us has nothing to say to young people, to the new generation that has brilliant studies, but no prospect while our country is away from new technologies and modern world changes. But it is also a budget, and that is - I think - the right expression. While the government argues that it is socially fair, the budget is not at all generous in low and medium-incomes, despite pre-election majorities, while it provides for significant tax relief for the powerful and rich. Professor Manolis Drettakis, former Minister of State, in his analysis in the editors' Newspaper, recently estimates that taxes on natural persons will be increased by 323 million euros, while against legal persons of large companies, etc., it will be reduced by 446 million euros. It is therefore the budget, an anti-grassroot budget, which is also inefficient, anti-developmental. I would like not to analyse this any more because of time. Beyond these general considerations, I would also like to make a reference in particular to the important area of health, an area where the New Democracy claimed that SYRIZA had destroyed him and that the current government will set him up again. Of course, when reading the 2020 budget, it is inconsistent with the conclusion that the New Democracy was also lying as an opposition here. As a government, she was involved in appointing her own excellent children in hospital administrations. If, at the time, the complaints of the New Democracy about burnt land to health were the case, in the budget that we are discussing, there would have been provision for important interventions. Did you see anyone? There is no such intervention, absolutely none. As far as the budget figures for hospitals, EEAS and other health bodies are concerned, they are close to what we had budgeted in 2019, that is, our difference is not so much in the figures on this issue but in the direction. We started efforts to remove private interests from hospitals and proceeded to the conclusion of individual contracts of employment. On the contrary, the right-wing government is moving in the very opposite direction and is trying to reintroduce private businesses to a number of services from which we have removed them from the public sector for more than EUR 25 million. For our part, we support the universal, equal and effective coverage of the expanded health care needs, and that is why it is necessary to seek and make use of additional resources together with an increase in health costs. Our aim is for health expenditure to reach 6% of GDP over four years. On the contrary, what is understood by the government's statements and announcements is that the budget says nothing about all this and we call on the Minister to say that it is not so. I say, therefore, that the announcements and statements made by the Government appear to seek public-private partnerships and the change in the legal status of hospitals by public-law legal persons to private-law legal persons, i.e. we should go before 1983 by the law establishing the NSH, the National Health System. Their aim is clear: facilitate private investment within the National Health System, transferring public care pietoes to business interests and overthrowing industrial relations, especially doctors, which leads to the complete degradation of the ESS, transferring costs to many citizens and increasing health inequalities. Here is the difference in our health policies. All this leads us to be decisively opposed to your budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr Balafa, for keeping time. I will inform you that Mr Giannakis will now be taking the floor from New Democracy, then Mr Katrugalos from SYRIZA will be given the floor by Mr Gerapetritis. Three Members will follow and we will finish with Mrs Arabatzis. Mr. Giannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u373	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in these days, we are discussing the first substantial budget of the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis. There are - and this is understandable - fundamental differences between the 2019 budget and that of 2020. This is due to the fact that the previous budget was drafted by the SYRIZA government with the concrete and well-known ideologies, choices and hierarchies of the previous government, with which we had substantial and structural differences, as is natural. Only five months have elapsed since the elections on 7 July, in order to change the climate slowly, Greece's prospects and position in the European and international spheres. In just five months there has been much and there will be even more benefits for Greek citizens in particular. I am not going to mention the reduction of HPAI, nor in the hundreds of twenty instalments to insurance funds and taxi, nor in the abolition of capital control, the reduction of taxes and insurance contributions to households and businesses, the simplification of procedures for the protection of first residence and the extension for accession by the end of April 2020 or the targeted actions for the recovery of the building by suspending VAT on buildings for three years, and indeed with retroactive effect or the reimbursement of some 40% of expenditure on renovation and energy upgrading of buildings. I will also not mention the increase in the heating allowance to 62 million and its forward payment, nor the social support measures that have been introduced, such as those concerning the support of the Greek family and the new couples by reducing VAT on infants, the grant of the EUR 2 000 allowance for each child born from the new year, as well as the relief measures for small and medium-sized enterprises. I will, however, note three positive parameters for me. Initially, the recovery in investment, foreign and domestic, as a result of the government's efforts to reduce taxes, reduce bureaucracy, but also the obstacles that have so far been inserted as a precondition for the creation of new jobs. As a positive evaluation, initiatives on education as a whole, as well as the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Justice to combat crime and strengthen the sense of security for citizens are taken. Also important is the result of the Ministry of Health's efforts in terms of medicine, prices, accessibility and continued care to improve health conditions in hospitals and health centres. The government, in particular with a plan and seriousness, with responsibility, moderation and realism, returns the country to normality, and that is what everyone receives. Greece, after great economic depression, reflects tomorrow with more optimism. A government becomes a real government when it manages to inspire confidence and security to the citizens it governs. The budget under discussion, although drawn up in increased supervision, is a budget for development prospects and social modernisation. After the budgets of the ruthless tax raid of the previous years, it is at last a budget that aims at man, the average Greek who was brutally affected in the years of the crisis, the employee and the pensioner, as well as the farmer, who, by reducing taxes, will see more money in their pockets. Conditions are created to increase the available income of all Greeks and all households, which will have a positive impact in general on the economy, as consumption will increase and the market will be reheated. It is a budget that provides for the increase of Gross National Product for 2020, the reduction of unemployment to 14%, the increase in private consumption, the increase in exports, the reduction of debt from 173% of GDP this year, to 167% for the new year. Of many, the 2.8% target set by the government for the development of our economy is considered ambitious. However, analysts internationally assess that Greece will be the great exception in terms of growth, as it will be the only economy to see a significant increase in its GDP, while slowing down will characterise all other economies. It is estimated that growth in the eurozone as a whole will slow down to 1% by 1.2% this year. Countries such as Germany, France and Italy will note, according to estimates, a growth of 0.6%, 1.3% and 0.2% respectively, while a slight slowdown is expected in Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg. It is an encouraging exception to our country. The fact that Greece has now come to borrow at negative interest rates is proof of the positive course, the targeted choices and the appropriate decisions of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis from 7 July to today. I will conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with the certainty that the efforts of the New Democracy Government through the choices of this budget with wisdom and seriousness leads the country to the prerequisite national objective, which is to ensure the well-being of all citizens, the positive, stable and dynamic development of our economy and to make Greece a strong and internationally decent country. With these thoughts and these objectives, I am voting for the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr Giannakis, for keeping time. Mr Georgios Koumoutsakos seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 16 December to 19 December. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u375	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Katrugalos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a moment ago the Minister of Finance, Mr Stagiras, said that this budget is not a class budget, and so he earned a place in the arrogance of similar statements on the right, next to the late Minister of Labour of New Democracy Constantine Laskaris, who said "we will not tolerate the struggle of order". The truth is that this budget has social significance. It is a budget for reverse redistribution, where many get few and few get a lot. It is characterized by anticipation of expectations, contrary to what the Minister for Development claimed a moment ago. I looked up and found online - now scripta manent has a different meaning than before - that, in an interview with the Prime Minister on May 22nd, he had announced a growth of 4% from next year. Obviously, today, the growth achieved by SYRIZA, 2.8% in the second quarter, according to ELSTAT's revised figures, is the new goal of the New Democracy Government. Next to the anticipation of anticipation, we also have saints - that is what I would call promises. The most characteristic of these is the simultaneous announcement that we will have an increase in pensions, a reduction in contributions, and also a reduction in pension expenditure in the budget. We'll see how you manage with this miracle. Unfortunately, the foreign ministry's budget is smaller than last year and obviously smaller than the very critical challenges that this ministry has to face. However, it is not the most important issue in the budget, but the orientation of our foreign policy. It appeared in the two main challenges that you had to face outside the borders, the refugee and the upgrading of Turkey's provocativeness, that you came across epin, unprepared, as if it were lightning in hunger. In both cases, you have not made progress with a consistent policy since the beginning, but with revolts, which have not served our national attitude. I am referring here to the refugee. You abolished the most competent ministry to initially confer responsibility on the Ministry of Civil Protection, as if immigration were a matter of public order. You have come to create a new ad hoc structure with semi-military features as if even if you considered it an internal public order, it is the military responsible for internal security issues. But I will find the rest of my speech on the crucial foreign policy issue. We, ladies and gentlemen, are a patriotic and responsible force. That is why we will not repeat the demagogic criticism - which was not really criticism, it was warfare - which we supported in the previous period those in the New Democracy wanted to mock the ears of the extreme right-wing tendencies that still maintain important forces inside you. We are in favour of the national front. It is, of course, a precondition for this to be effective, firstly to have a stable strategy and orientation, and secondly to be honest and serious about foreign policy issues and not to see them, above all, as communication issues. On Wednesday, the President of SYRIZA spoke of the need for a national front. This proposal for a national front was accompanied by the necessary criticism. And what was the answer, the Maximus leak? ‘Alexis Tsipras’. We can't move like this. Opposition cannot be more self-conscious than the government, and we cannot move without showing proper respect for both the truth and the service of our national issues. The truth is that not only the substance has become abundant in communication but also the messages you transmit are contradictory. From the fact that 'with a good attitude on both sides will the issues be resolved' - what is that of Turkey's reform of our philanthropic policy? - until the leaks of any slap and defeat are tested by President Erdogan. Another message is the calls, we should go to The Hague, which are accompanied by the very opposite for the militarisation of our reaction, for cannons that have to replace butter butter and for sacrifices that the Greek people have. Listen. The foreign policy wants a compass and cannot be defined, we can only react backwards to the infrastability and the improvement of the provocativeness of the other side. The Turkish policy has strategic characteristics of reform. The upgrade of infrastability is explained by the isolation in which Turkey has recently arrived, not only because of its insistence on not respecting international law, but also because of the active foreign policy that we have served as long as we are in the country's governance. This means that our response must have the following two features. To react to the upgrading of provocation first by using weapons achieved by Greek diplomacy with great effort, such as sanctions. But at the same time to strengthen the position of active diplomacy in relation to Turkey's power projection. It is not possible that the South Conference has not been activated all this time. It is not possible for the United States to reiterate its support for East Med, one of the crowns of this active policy. It seems like you're choosing immorality in foreign policy because you're not going to achieve the goals you're going to set. But it cannot be served by foreign policy. Our offer remains exactly because we are a patriotic force and a power of responsibility. But you need to overcome the features that have been attributed to foreign policy, which Constantine Mitsotakis has conducted in his last interview with Alexis Papachela. And that's what I'm ending. "The Greek Right with few exceptions traditionally does not know how to make foreign policy. It does not dare to make politics." So we want to serve peace. We want to have channels of communication with Turkey. We consider it necessary to relaunch exploratory contacts and also to serve confidence-building measures. But that does not mean delivering all the other important weapons that our diplomacy had in the past. Only with a comprehensive foreign policy plan can we respond to the role that the Greek people expect from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u377	The Minister of State, Mr Gerapetritis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u378	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after about a hundred and fifty suggestions from Members and Ministers, there is obviously not much to be said to strengthen the narrative of this budget. I would just like to refer to the theoretical removal of the budget as a historical element of democracy itself, because the budget is the major piece of legislation in the parliamentary order. It has always been historical, and this Parliament's majority is aware of it. Why? Because the budget actually reflects the basic principle of cross-border operations. For through the budget the House shows its primacy by tabling and controlling the government at its expense. Interestingly, the two major pillars of the budget, i.e. revenue and expenditure, have a huge difference in time in which they have been historically established. First of all, the obligation to register the State's revenue is raised in the 13th century and in the Magna Carta of 1215. On the other hand, costs, i.e. the government's obligation to pre-empt the costs that it will bear in the early 18th century, around five centuries, revenue and expenditure were essentially integrated into a specific framework that is the budget, especially from the glorious 1688 revolution and the early 18th century. It is an interesting historical fact that the first politician to introduce the budget, which is the first to be understood as Prime Minister of England, was also Sir Robert Walpool, who was finally abrogated because he did not implement this budget and so the budget was linked to the own parliamentary system, namely the government's responsibility towards Parliament. It is the government's duty to keep the framework that the House itself prescribes and approves. For this reason, historical tradition, particularly in the US, is that the discussions and budgetary analyses should be exhaustive. While instead of English, they are much more concise and secret. We, following this example, the Americans, have a very transparent and detailed budget. It is crucial that the Minister for Finance is required to open his papers in front of the House which will be called upon to adopt. Why would he approve? In the face of this budget, which we will be adopting today, the Minister of Finance, like the entire government, will be answering at the end of next year. Interesting is where the term budget comes from, which is as you know the budget, the French, which is the term recurring in the budget. It runs around the ancient French word boujette, which is the small basket. It is the small basket which the Minister for Finance has and which - and this is its notebook - opens before the House, which is why the traditional expression is that the Minister for Finance 'open the budget', that is to say, opens the budget. The current budget is in this direction. It comes with respect to the House. And it comes while it has - I think it has all - considerably upgraded Parliament's authority not only through the audit work - to remind us that we are at around 80% of the government's compliance with the obligation of parliamentary control over Members' questions - but also in a legislative work, which has been produced within five months of the time the current governance has taken a vote of confidence, and that is thirty-two legislation, which, I appreciate, is important for the state and the economy to be raised. In this context, I would like to point out that the budget also receives much more programmed, much more effectively, i.e. the budget will go through the procedures of the Ministerial Council through the individual programmes of the Ministries, which will, at the end of the December Ministerial Council, become the government's operational overall strategic plan. And in this way, all functions, which go up to the budget, are fully standardised in the context of the state as a whole, and the process of producing public policies is actually being upgraded. I would just like to say two words about the budget which is being put before you today. This budget is an honest budget. He doesn't hide evidence. It captures the exact situation as it stands. And it is a budget, which does not have to hide things, because it is based on the realistic assumptions that the present government has already extinguished in its capacity as Anti-Population. This is because those promised as a Qualified Opposition have been fully respected. Once the honourable Minister of Finance had referred to the Johanson doctrine. We'd all like to be on an appointment with Johanson. Today my dear friend, George Katrugalos, referred to saintly royal gifts. Well, the date was almost there, because what we promised was done until the last antenna. We promised to reduce taxes for all classes, for businesses, for natural persons, and it was done. We promised to reduce the EMCDDA and acted. We promised to reduce the drugs and act. We promised a ban on smoking as a whole and acted. And this is what the Greek Government is rewarding for today at the lowest interest rates in the Greek state, and that is precisely the portrayal of trust, which proves to exist not only from society, but also from markets. Because we did not have to make up for the lack of confidence in society or the international markets with surpluses, which were in fact nothing but a promise we had to make, because we had a lack of confidence. This confidence deficit today does not exist. That is why I feel today, on the grounds of knowledge, that we can maintain a sustainable optimism that there will be prosperity and growth for all. And it will be sustainable optimism because it is not based on deceit. And it is not based on delusion, because what we have done since the first day with the production of a huge legislative project is precisely the confirmation of stability, honesty and integrity that what we promised is what we will do and that is rewarding today for the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Minister for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u380	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u381	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u382	I would first like to ask about credibility, because just before you we heard the Minister of Economy, who told us that Mr Mitsotakis promised that he would first build credibility and then call for the reduction of targets. You have now given us a speech and said that you have all the credibility. The markets believe you, the citizens believe you, the Europeans believe you. Why didn't you go and try to get down now? So, you've already built credibility if I understand you well. Secondly, and that's not against you, I have a fight against the lawyers in general and ours and yours. You have a deficit in numbers, because credibility has to do with numbers. We also have a concern about this budget for how the figures come out. I would like to remind you that it is important not to return to the situation before 2009, because we had many budgets in 2009, which we said we would catch targets through non-tariff methods, that is, that we will take both the tax evasion, which your governments and the PASOK governments promised. There's this. A large number comes out that you will reach the targets of tax evasion, a large number of how much you will cut off from the state into services, electricity, medicines, in the part that is for what the state buys, a large part that comes out of the growth of 2.8%, which is immediately higher improvement of 2.4%. And I tell you that, as Minister of State, you have an obligation with what I see as an economist and you as a lawman not to allow us to return to the pre-2009 period, where budgets with arbitrary figures for growth were closed, with arbitrary figures for what we will collect for tax evasion, with arbitrary figures for what we can save from the state. You cannot confirm this to me now, but I tell you that you must be very careful, because the country has indeed won a credibility and it is not very difficult to lose it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u383	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u384	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u385	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u386	It is a great pleasure to always discuss with Mr Tsakalotos, who is well known for his high consciousness and knowledge of economics. In this case, however, I will say that he referred to a number deficit, but he did not invoke any numbers. What is that number, Minister, which is genuinely disturbing to you? And if you want to talk about numbers, we talk about specific numbers for negative interest rates, which are currently in force in Greece. Unless you consider that the economic climate is not affected by negative interest rates. Unless you think that SNPs and ANFAs are not measurable, we have received them today. You may have had every good intention of getting them, but this is what is happening today on current governance, because we are not the abstract economy. I'm sure you're much better than me and many others, but this government has managed to make the numbers. And the figure that ultimately counts beyond all numbers and composes the big picture is the confidence index, Minister. And the confidence index today is the biggest one, which has been there in the last decade. For the risk of using conditions which are non-measurable, I would like to tell you this. It is also my concern that we should not go back to a regime which will be a state of irresponsibility. That is why I feel, having studied, as far as I can, with which I have an economic knowledge of this budget, that it is a modest budget. It will prove, however, and that is why I have spoken of a substantial accountability and, Minister, we will all find ourselves in these headquarters in the next budget to assess whether we have kept them. I wish for the country that this budget will be respected, because it is the budget that guarantees growth for all and prosperity for society.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u387	Now Mr Tsigris has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u388	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the first budget of the new government, the budget for the financial year 2020, could also bear the title 'consequence of words and works', because it is a budget expected by Greek citizens. The present government is building confidence, which is necessary to move forward and create development conditions for the place. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget is the first memorial. Ten stone years have passed, growth has retreated, unemployment has taken off, households have been hurt, Greek citizens have experienced the crisis painfully. Social cohesion has been disturbed, social solidarity has been shattered, social peace has often been found on the brink of collapse. That is why I too welcome this budget, which in turn calls for a reduction in unemployment from 17.4% today to 15.6% on 31 December 2020, an increase in private consumption of 1.8%, an increase in investment of 13.4%, tax relief of EUR 1.2 billion. It will finally leave our shoulders this unbearable tax burden. It proclaims a growth of 2.8%, a primary surplus of 3.56%. It is a budget of jobs to stimulate the consumer power of Greek citizens, to increase investment, to tax evasion, to develop and to create wealth for our country. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point I would like to mention two originals, because the rest has been exhausted and will be exhausted by other colleagues who will speak from this Step. This budget brings two major innovations.The first innovation concerns revenue. This is the first time in the modern Greek history that a budget provides for a reduction in taxes of EUR 1.2 billion and, at the same time, brings an increase in revenue. A paradox financially? Not at all, because the growth of jobs and the growth of investment will also bring greater revenue to the public fund. Is there someone who doesn't understand it? I have the feeling that our neighborhood grocery knows that. One characteristic example is the ENPIA which, however, declined the collection by HNPI is greater than last year. No paradox. Another example is the reduction of VAT in many product categories, combined with an increase in revenue due to an increase in consumption. Paradoxical? Not at all. But there is also a more important innovation in this budget. For the first time, in the Greek economic system and in the budgets of the country, the innovation of performance control is introduced, i.e. over spending and revenue budget, the state makes a budget for performance, actions and objectives. It starts in 2020 from six ministries, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Rural Development, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Culture and Sport and the Ministry of Civil Protection. Of course, there is also a seventh axis, which is the prime concern of the Prime Minister himself: the fight against fertility in a Greece that in 2025 has 9.4 million people, the 2050s will have 8 million in a Greece that grows old and does not give birth, a Greece that bleeds and we have not taken it seriously yet. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] For only thirty seconds, Mr President, your tolerance. I give you one example: the Ministry of Civil Protection. I'm coming to my own podiums. Refugees, asylum applications: Approximately eighty thousand were filed over the last decade, they still remain uncontrolled about sixty-eight thousand. The asylum procedures in Greece are therefore particularly slow, so that I do not describe them as a different step from this step. We are therefore all aware that an objective must be set to speed up the procedures for examining asylum applications. The same is true of residence permits for legal immigrants. From now on we will all be judged in this place and do not expect the opposition to judge us. We're judging our own government work. It is not only the Opposition, but the Prime Minister himself now judges the actions of his government, which is innovative and innovative. Undersecretary of State at Sports: it's setting a target of 10% reduction in violence on the stadiums. It's something that's been done for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u390	Mr President, I shall conclude immediately. With these arguments I would ask, ladies and gentlemen, that we vote in favour of the 2020 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u391	Thank you. Mr. Paulakis has the floor from SYRIZA. Here comes Mr. Avramakis and we'll finish with Mrs. Arabatzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what can one begin in seven minutes? But I will try to answer numbers, because that is where everything is revealed. Before I do that, however, I will say this and it is important. Today, for those who do not know it, and unfortunately no one is here from the Ministry of Health, the first system of robotic surgery Da Vinci, costing about 2m euros, at a hospital in the ESS, at the "METAXA". Do you know where this was financed from? It was financed from the surplus of 2018. It is 2 million of the total 23.5 million, which by decision of Eukleidis Tsakalotos and George Huliarakis, in collaboration with us, we gave 7 million to "Savvas", from 5 million to "Theatrical" "Metaxas" and "Saint Anargyrori" and 1,5 million to "Laikos" for some other direct machinery needs that they had there. The "Transition" will become a training centre in robotic surgery in the new colleagues. We've given these from the overrun. That's what we did. It's one of many. As yesterday, three million seven hundred thousand people got a social dividend. It's been one day, and the seven hundred thousand, which is getting it this year, have not been taken by many, apparently, will take it after the holidays. And wait, you economists, get 2.8% growth rate and 3% and 13% and I don't know. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, especially the economists. The poor and small- and medium-sized populaces consume. These are the steam engine of growth. But that's what you cut. And the tax concessions you say you have made, since 1.2 billion, 616 million relate to 5% of our society. They're going to consume to put the engine on? You increased profitability to them. The small and medium-sized strata, the workers who will be relieved of EUR 15 and 20 a month, are those who will drag the growth cart? Thirdly, with regard to the ENPIA, you say and you are proud - and say the truth, but now - that what we have legislated as relief, you have increased it. What did you raise exactly, you know? You took the 200 million out of the 250 million left as a security pillow this year, and you gave it to those who have more than 500 thousand and 1 million real estate. And next year you anticipate that the collection of HISPIA will increase. What are you gonna do next year? You will increase the objective values. In other words, you will cancel the relief we have made from the rest of the money you have found, instead of directing it to the poor and the medium-sized, you have given it to those who have more than EUR 1 million. Isn't that the reality of numbers? Also, you didn't share dividends for another reason. And my friend Georgiadis came out before and he proudly said that "we have brought down 4% in business since 2019". In those who are profitable, at least, 2% -3%. They're the ones you relieved. So you cut 300-350 million euros from what you could share as a social dividend this year. Next year, when you're counting on a 2.8% growth, if you catch it, you'll have to give me a rattle of ears.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u393	At the airport...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u394	Mr. Voloudakis, because your fellowman, Mr. Georgiadis spoke earlier...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u395	He's not my homo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u396	You have, how you don't. Samara went with you, too. We resisted the airport. Then you were absent. Don't play that cock for me what you did. You didn't do anything at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u397	I wasn't against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u398	We were then succumbing - because that's what you threw me now - but the country took it out of the memos. And you won't move, because you're the first government to find a table of 37 billion and not to look for pensions a month ago. Now we're going to some more specific numbers. The program "PHILIDIS" is probably unaware of it. "PHILODIMOS" has money from the European Central Bank, has money from the Deposit and Loan Fund. And a drachma that the European Central Bank, the Deposit and Loan Fund, does not give. What Mr. Theodorikos says is all lies. The 134 million, the first one, was the first disbursement to start implementing projects. Even if they don't give any more, which is agreed to be given, there are from the Deposit and Loan Fund. But you're making the return to the final state of the right of 1950. In other words, if the mayors come to beg you for the works already registered, 'give me a bar'. And it seems that Mr Theodorikos, because he is not a body from the New Democracy's body, is trying to create his own mechanism of influence on local self-government through this sharing, as a state of the 1950s, in works by various mayors. Because that's what you're doing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because there's some time left, we're going to the Department of Health. There are no colleagues here. I want them to answer me. First of all, you are making the provision we said at the time, and you are increasing the amount for hospitals and EEAS, based on the expected GDP growth. What we had negotiated at the time. But listen now. Or you don't understand what you're writing in the budget, and you're working a small gamble by some of the ministry's servants - I'll prove it to you what I'm saying - or you have some very wicked things in your mind. I expect an answer from Kontozamanis or from the staff responsible. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] Can you explain to me why, while you admit that the execution of drugs will go to 760 million euros next year, why are you predicting 550 million euros? Because while you know that execution in health material this year is 360 million - three years now it is there, 320-330-340 million euros - of the year because you anticipate 553 million euros. You want to go back to the overpricing scheme of the materials we had before 2010. From 350 million - so much the hospitals consumed this year - you say 563 million per year. Why? Secondly, for orthopaedic material, you put 66 million executions - 62-63 million will go - and next year you will see 128 million. Why? So we can go back to an arthroplasty with 3,000 euros? Why? Third, reagents. Three years now it is at EUR 131-134-140 million. How much do you expect of time? You're predicting 216 million. Why? Why do you anticipate this? Either you don't understand what you're writing or - especially the latter - because you're thinking about practicing PPPs - and you've also put the "leaves" there, the Exacters and the Liberty, but they've made good the day before in Zappeion - and public-private partnerships, i.e. entering and operating machines with staff, without wage costs, you're uploading them and the amount they're getting. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] What do you got, Mr. Chrysomalis? Do you disagree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u399	What about me? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u400	Oh, I thought maybe. And one last number on EPPY.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u401	But finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u402	Now listen to me. You're lying! Ugly lies! You set the EEAS a performance provision for the hospitals this year of 888 million euros. Along with "Onceso", "Papageorgiou", EKAV, university, military, you will not reach more than 550 million. I'm telling you this and I'm waiting for an answer tomorrow - tomorrow. We reached 780 million last year with all this. The ERC hospitals by September 1st were given 420 million. These are the decisions that we signed in June, the last ones. Since then, no cents have fallen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u403	Finish it, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u404	Will you give the rest from 15 to 30 December? I don't think you'll make it. Commissioners will not sign the warrants. They've been shut down as far as I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u405	Close, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u406	So you make a budget that has a lot of lies, too much lies. It's the fourth bubble that breaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u407	Mr. Polakis, you've reached ten minutes. You should be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u408	It's the fourth bubble that breaks. The bubble broke with the Macedonian. Now you'll defend the deal. The bubble broke with Matty. Now it's climate change. The bubble broke that you'd put wires in the Aegean. Now we cannot drown people, and so of course we must. And now we have the budget. You predict growth of 2.8% when you reduce the liquidity of those who consume. Here we will be next year, and then we'll see your wings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u409	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u410	Now I've just changed the previous president. I don't know if there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u411	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u412	I've got staff. To speak before or after the Minister. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u413	Explain what the staff is to appreciate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u414	Mr Paulakis mentioned to me personally by telling me from the Step - you were not here, Mr President - that when they were fighting for Chania airport, I was absent. I don't know what he's talking about. Because I did not participate in their own mobilisations, because I am not against the use of state property. On the contrary, the airport of Chania was finally deprived, like the other regional airports, by a contract signed by the government of SYRIZA and ratified by Parliament with the votes of SYRIZA and Mr Polakis, when I was not a MP. So, where I was absent, it was in the ratification of the convention on the privatization of the airport, not from anything else. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Before you came, Mr. Paulakis said here that if our economy succeeds in developing 2.8% of the year, we would agree to put a ring in his ear or I don't know exactly what. Someone who has the previous name of Mr Polakis - who said that if he was privatised, this term he would use, the airport would lie down on the runway to prevent it - that should not be said again and make such bets for the future. I reminded him of this when he was in Stepma. The future, Mr. Polakis, is ahead. Nobody knows. It is good to be careful about our commitments and our promises.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u415	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u416	Mr. Buga, do you have any staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u417	No, Mr. President. I'll explain. Let the Minister precede, but I would like to explain why I am asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u418	You can't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u419	Mr President, in this Chamber, as long as the budget debate lasts, they have spoken...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u420	Procedural question would you like to raise?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u421	I shall refer to a point raised by the previous speaker from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u422	No, you can't, Mr. Buga. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u423	Mr President, this is a discrimination against me. It can't have been done by everyone before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u424	Mr Buga the floor can be taken by someone who is registered to speak for the second time. Personal topic doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u425	That could apply to everyone. It can't be an exception to me alone. That's exactly what I'm saying and I want you to understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u426	No exceptions! And I express myself as president.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u427	If this is what I've described before, isn't that an exception?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u428	Do you understand, Mr Buga, if anyone wanted to speak for three hundred, we wouldn't even be done after Christmas?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u429	Mr President, it has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u430	You have experience and I think you know the process. There's no such procedure. It never existed. It is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u431	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have seen the issue of social dividends also raised. I have two questions here. If you thought it needed a social dividend, why didn't you legislate? You did not legislate, nor did you leave us, as we will explain to the national delegation - as SYRIZA asked to come to the General Accounting Office. Because the information from the General Accounting Office - and it is available to anyone - which I received on 10-07-2019 said 396,000 euros minus the financial area in 2019 and 1,080,000 euros minus the 2020 budget area. That's what you thought. That is why you did not legislate and it has an ideological aspect. The honourable Member, the previous Minister for Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, has said so in a debate. Their goal when they gave the 13th pension was to reduce the dividend. However, you did not leave a budget area and you did not legislate. Why are you shouting?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u432	Why are you lying, Mr. Dog!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u433	Don't interrupt, Mr. Polakis. Everyone expresses their position and our citizens hear us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u434	I'm not lying, it's not in my idiosyncrasy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u435	Shall we bring it back to life?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u436	Mr. Polakis, no. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u437	As long as you're alive, reality doesn't change. As far as I am concerned - to finish and not to trouble Parliament and any viewers who have tolerated this long-time debate - if anything happens after the "bet you put" - your physical integrity, I will have remorse in my conscience!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u438	Mr. Eleftherios Avramakis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u439	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are the government, who has chosen the overcrowd and the 37 billion-dollar pillow the SYRIZA government left. Instead of sharing it as a social dividend - as we did - with 3.5 million beneficiaries, you have decided to give it to an economic elite, to give it to the clientele - party state that you are building, to the canalarchs, to the bankers. In a few days' time the new decade begins, and we all hope that it will evolve much better for all of us than for the decade of monuments, austerity, restrictive policies, economic and social bankruptcy. One would say that in this respect the budget is in the climate of days, where we all exchange wishes and hope that the new year will be better than the one that goes away. The budget submitted by the government is indeed a text of wish. It only vaguely describes government policies, it contains over-population forecasts, it is violently cut off from the reality of the economy, society, and even international treaties. It is a budget of so-called 'normality', corresponding to all the budgets of the New Democracy and PASOK, which ultimately led to bankruptcy, loss of 25% of GDP, social collapse and overtaxation of citizens. It is a budget of closed offices that do not take into account either the international environment, the national environment, the real needs, or the real potential of the Greek society and the productive forces of the country. It is a budget, which provides for 2.8% growth for 2020 and an increase in revenue for the state as a result of investments that will reach - as expected - 13.4%. Evidently the New Democracy estimates that the brave tax exemptions and gifts to the country's economic elite are an incentive to invest their money in Greece and not to make it out of the world, as they have always done. Some of these investments certainly concern the sale of public property and infrastructure, such as natural gas networks, which, unfortunately, involves suspending the expansion of these networks for many regions of the country, as well as the Serres Prefecture. These investments expected by the government certainly do not concern investment in the primary sector, which the place needs. Small and medium-sized farmers could invest if SYRIZA's planned discount on the taxation of cooperative farmers were implemented. This deduction would act as an incentive for the cooperative function of small and medium-sized farmers, who could thus make investments which would increase the added value of their agricultural and livestock products. Instead, there is a minimal reduction in the tax on farmers, but you will actually cancel the increases provided for in the insurance contributions. The government and Prime Minister's own announcement of a reduction in agricultural oil is not included in the budget. On the contrary, the agricultural electricity accounts are already rising in farmers because of the new price policy, which is being implemented. This reality increases the cost of production and thus the final price of the products. In practice, this means that all consumers will buy less products if their income remains unchanged. However, speculators, who have opened up to circumventing collective agreements, already produce results and already reduce wages in a number of companies. At the same time, consumption will begin to fall from 2020, as increases in the minimum contributions of free professionals will reduce their overall income. The tourism sector, Greece's heavy industry, estimates that only since the collapse of "THOMAS COOK" there will be losses of EUR 1 billion. We all realise that this alone is a negative given fact and consumption will be considerably reduced. Based on the estimates of professional tourism professionals, only losses from "THOMAS COOK" will reach 2.5 billion, i.e. more than 1% of GDP. But that's not all. When we look at the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Welfare, we find the welfare budget to be reduced by 400 million. In particular, by 183 million, disability benefits are reduced, by 139 million, by 53 million, the rental subsidy for 30 million school meals. We all understand that the whole of this money will disappear from the market. We will have EUR 400 million less in Greek commercial enterprises and the free traders. Free professionals, too, will be forced to reduce their consumption, since their available income will be reduced. On the one hand, they will have fewer receipts than the reduced consumption, on the other hand, to 80% of the free traders, for whom tax reductions entail 10 euros a month profit, and you will reserve an increase in their insurance contributions by 30 euros a month. You give them ten and you get 30. It is also planned to reduce unemployment by around 2 points and increase the average wage by 1-2%. How's that gonna happen? The wages are already reduced due to the possibilities offered for the non-implementation of collective agreements. The only category that saw an increase in wages is the posteriori of the government, which, with less qualified qualifications, takes more money. For the real economy wage cuts have started. Undeclared work has increased, high redundancies of accurate employees and new contracts provide less pay for even medium-sized business executives. Your announcements to raise the minimum wage and even at a level twice the growth rate have disappeared. The public wage costs are not significantly differentiated. But the government's cost of operating with hundreds of additional expensive posters means less and less workers in critical sectors of the social state. Recruitment designed on SYRIZA for critical sectors, such as hospitals, schools, municipalities, will be implemented in the time that has been planned or referred to in the future wells? The strengthening of the social state, implemented by the SYRIZA Government, implies an increase in the public's available income. The so-called social wage allows citizens, especially low and medium-income, to meet other needs. The fact that, in the New Democracy Government, not only does it not increase practically, but social wages are reduced means even lower consumption. If we even take account of the annual increases in specific goods consumed by the State for the needs of the social infrastructure and of the fact that the costs that are envisaged for them in all the ministries are reduced, we understand that the social state is attempting to cut down. Pension expenditure also appears to be reduced by EUR 200 million. This implies a loss of more than two hundred million from the Greek market. It is therefore only from the budget of the Ministry of Labour that there is a reduction in the public's available income by EUR 600 million. But you say the consumption will increase. The definition of creative accounting! The government probably believes that the Greek people will not see their incomes falling because the communication staff of the New Democracy and the media say nothing. The precariousness that this budget provides is so many that even the most optimistic supporters of the government are provoked. The only safe provision that can be made from this budget is that it does not come out. The government will not be able to catch up with the targets it has set. The vast majority of the Greek people will be invited to contribute more money to the public funds, at the same time that the Greek State will shrink in relation to critical infrastructure. The reduction in taxation is non-existent for medium-income, which is also the main consumer group in the country, while indirect charges and insurance contributions will be increased. The services provided to the citizens will be reduced, as will the development potential of the municipalities. In conclusion, the redistribution of income in favour of the weaknesses implemented by SYRIZA and saved through the consumption of the majority of small and medium-sized enterprises is now being used as a redistribution for the economic elites, who have a way of making money out of the country. Unfortunately, the new decade, as planned by the New Democracy Government, will have a crucial impact on the primary sector, will reduce the social wage, will reduce the available income of the vast majority of the Greek people. The New Democracy cannot understand that growth is not being ordered, but is being planned. It has not adopted any of the essential regional development plans, which were designed following a real dialogue between the SYRIZA Government and society and which could, in fact, change the country's productive map. In conclusion, it is a budget with a class-based discriminatory mark in favour of the strong, it is a budget that gives little to many and a few. This budget is certainly to be reviewed very quickly. The holes, which will emerge, will bring new austerity policies for the citizens, will create a new economic crisis, which will in turn create a new social crisis. Of course, we are voting against this budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u440	And we are finishing today's meeting with the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Fotini Arabatzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u441	Thank you, Mr President. "I would like to praise Greece. It is impressive that he has made progress in development." These are of course not my words, nor are any government officials, ladies and gentlemen, the words of Christine Langard for our country at her first interview as head of the European Central Bank, and it is a phrase that describes in the most representative way the change in our country since Kyriakos Mitsotakis took over. I started my speech with these words because I believe that, not only do they highlight the enormous change that has taken place in the views of all the European officials for our country and its economy, but also because Mrs Langard will be one of the main factors in order to reduce the inappropriate surpluses, which have weakened the economy and kneeled the middle class, which I would remind you that the SYRIZA Government had produced to a class enemy, of course by signing them. Tomorrow's appointment of our Prime Minister with Mrs Langard will send out the necessary messages to everyone, and next year one more of our key programming commitments will take place. And this is the lasting aim of this government, our commitments to act. In five months' time, then, with thirty-two legislative initiatives, we have acted on the reduction of ENPIA, the reduction of taxation for all citizens and businesses, the reform of university asylum, the return of the police to civil protection, the continuous battle with the ideologicalization of lawlessness, the treatment of the most acute immigration problem, for which we have a lot to do. A few days ago, with a shocking majority, we gave Greeks abroad the opportunity to vote at their home place for the first time since 1974. We compare the Greeks wherever they are. We respond with firm self-confidence and national dignity to anyone who provokes us or supervises even one inch of our country. Stability, rationality, consistency, calm. In other words, return to normality. This message we send to society, we send out this message to the people in the primary sector, those who the SYRIZA government has chosen to hit with unprecedented vigour and idealism, taxes, insurance contributions, the brake on the use of European funds, the bureaucratic loop it has imposed, on the philosophy of transforming producers from householders into subsidising politics. On the other hand, we in the New Democracy, the great liberal democratic centre-right party, of the historically justified choices for our country, want farmers financially independent, not only to produce what they know to do for many years, but now through organised collectives to standardise, process and market their own production, both in national and international markets, by increasing their income value significantly. Reduction of production costs, utilization of the acquis communautaire, removal of bureaucratic turbulence, resolution of chronic problems, increase of agricultural income. That is our strategic goal from the first time we took over from the Ministry of Rural Development. So we are literally pulling out of naphthalene from the European funds under the Rural Development Programme, for example, the improvement plans, which have finally been unleashed since July, after eight extensions of the SYRIZA Government. At the same time, we are really giving a race for the Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme, which we received with a scandalous absorption of 12.5%, after four years and a one-digit number - please - the absorption of investment development programmes in the fisheries sector. We are removing the European funds' guarantee programmes, the so-called 'financed instruments' which also sprinkle in the SYRIZA government. From the EUR 80 million Rural Development Programme, ladies and gentlemen, guarantees amounting to EUR 400 million will be available to our producers, such as producers throughout the European Union, to fund their investments with access to short-term bank lending until yesterday. We are opening up new markets for our products, making use of the European Union's international agreements with a characteristic example of the agreement with China, with prosperous, great prospects for our branding and feta. We are, of course, fighting Greekisms. Our tools for intensification of controls, consolidation at the time of the digital governance of our Ministry's digital bases to achieve traceability, in order to achieve this from the field and the stable in the consumer's plate and, of course, tighten up the Community framework and impose fines on those who name the products of origin and geographical indication. Result? Before the Ventalia of all these initiatives opens, the signs are already visible to the price of sheep and goat milk, which was found in a free fall in previous years, to already mark an upward orbit. With regard to mountainous ovine and caprine animals, the most environmentally friendly animal husbandry and a weapon uncompetitive to the demands of the new green agreement - the so-called 'green deal' - we are drawing up a strategic plan for livestock farming, making use of good practices such as the Irish model, the MILKFLEX loan programme and special environmental aid in cooperation with the other Member States - for sheep and goat farmers. We are finally moving on, in cooperation with the regions, to fulfil a national objective, finally to draw up the country's management grazing plans which, for four and a half years, have, literally, been cancer, with a view to increasing the country's eligible areas, the unavoidable flow of subsidies for our farmers in view of the tightening up of the framework of the new common agricultural policy, the armoring of Greek farmers against the risk of external convergence of subsidies, and we are working to speed up the licensing process of each stacking. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. In our priorities for the new year, the availability of the contributions of the cheese farmers and farmers to the ELGO "DIMITRA" to the disposal of controls on meat, milk, eggs, for the protection of our Greek production and our national economy against unfair practices. In the water-farming sector, the flagship - you know - of our exports after olive oil, we finally exploit the marine landfill and ensure a vital place for new investments, by simplifying and optimising the licensing procedures for integrated development regions. Ladies and gentlemen, the first budget of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis marks a time of uprooting for farmers. This, you see, is our fundamental difference with SYRIZA. You, as a government, invested, won elections in the weakness of the producers. Even now, after the defeat in the elections - it was said a moment ago by a colleague - you have attempted to break apart panic to farmers for the supposed increase in insurance contributions. Finally, the treasure was carbon, and the only increase was this one in your established, of course, unreliability, while we with a clear four-year order, with a plan, will and unrelenting effort are politically investing in the power of producers. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, a new wind of optimism is breathing in the country. Our policies and our behaviours will strengthen him. Consider a symbolism picture: Every night hundreds of citizens gather out of the House building to photograph it, as decorated Christmas. An optimistic picture of change and regularity, if one remembers what happened outside the temple of democracy during the years of the crisis. Citizens begin to believe again that politics can serve their interests and shield the interests of their country. So we will fight without arrogance to make this faith sure. We owe it to those who have made bloody sacrifices to the crisis, but above all, we owe it to the next generations to which we have to deliver a country that is modern, a strong country, a country that is respected, such as the one which is due to our first budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u442	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-16-S1-commons.u443	With the consent of the House at 22.26' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 17 December 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: Continuing the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2020".
