ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question report to the House on Thursday, 7 March 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, Member of Parliament, on the subject of "The Government does not provide any evidence of an assessment of the public." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karrassos to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "Years after the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus, the government continues its inaction in taking action to promote its recognition by the international community." 3. The Question No 408/5-3-2019 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Trade persecution by the Group of the “Selonda Caucasus S.G.”. 4. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Saridis under number 393/27-2-2019 by Congressman I of Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The supply of seven hundred fifty buses for urban transport - three hundred fifty for Thessaloniki". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Fotinis Arabatzis, Member of the European Parliament, with regard to the question of 'Full failure to carry out controls and sanctions for ovine and caprine milk' by No 402/4-3-2019. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 409/5-3-2019 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "Dangerous working conditions of dealer workers". 3. The 377/25-2-2019 topical question by the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Maniou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Appendix of honey to the foods of the households'. 4. The 386/26-2-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “Dangerous “hot” in Apostlemi, in the Gouves - Hersonissos department.” 5. The question raised by Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis, Member of Parliament, with number 378/25-22019, was raised by MP, Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Recompensatory benefits for the regions in the administrative boundaries of which the reservoirs/frames of Mornos and Evnos are located. 6. Question No 392/26-2-2019 by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Climate change is here. The necessary infrastructure is missing.’ 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 330/4-2-2019 topical question by Independent MEP, Evia Nikolaos Michou, Minister for Foreign Affairs, on "Continuance of persecution of members of the Greek minority in Albania". 8. The 284/21-1-2019 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: “Albanian street developments in the creation of “Greek Albania”. 9. The 280/17-1-2019 topical question by MEP I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "The administration of the Aegean is being promoted by the government." 10. The 260/9-1-2019 topical question by Piraeus I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways". 11. The question by No. 261/9-1-2019 of the Greek People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and associations of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement". 12. The Question No 263/9-1-2019 by Congressman Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "Cazan ready to explode the Skopje state". We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Modernisation and Reform of the Institutional Framework for Private Clinics, Establishment of a National Public Health Agency, Recommendation of a National Institute of Neoplasms and other provisions". We will continue with the list of speakers. The first speaker, whom we invite to Stepa, is Mr. Ioannis Theophile by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, there are two very important amendments in this bill concerning Kosanis. One is the segregation of the Municipality of Velvetou, and the other is the segregation of the two hospitals in the prefecture, namely "Bodosakyo", located in Ptolemais and "Mamatsios", located in Kozani. I begin with two words - perhaps a little more - for the separatism of the Velvetou Municipality. Those who ask and wonder why Velvet is autonomous, do not know a key feature of the Velventins: in 2010, which lacked autonomy, did not deprive them of autonomy. Oxygen was deprived of them, breathing oxygen. Those who know them know that exactly nine years now these people can't breathe. It's like you've deprived them of oxygen. They're planting. This will and the unclean passion of the Velventinans for self-government and separatism has a legal base, beyond what is very substantiated in the explanatory statement. This legal basis is the European Charter of Local Autonomousity signed in Strasbourg in 1985 and ratified by Law No. 1850/1989, gaining over-legislative effect. I read, for example, two articles in the European Charter of Local Autocracy. Article 4(6): "The Local Governments shall deliver their opinion as soon as possible and in the appropriate manner during their programming and decision-making procedures on all matters directly related to them". Article 5, note: ‘For any change in the territorial boundaries, the local authorities concerned must be consulted beforehand, if necessary by means of the referendum where the law permits it’. This was not the case with the 'CALL'. No local society has been asked. In Velvet there were referendums. The people of Velvet did their will to remain autonomous, but no matter what. And that violates the European Charter of Local Autonomousity. Very important, of course, is the mountainous area of the Municipality of Velvetou: a municipality with 57% in its entire territory with settlements located in the eight hundred meters, such as Palaiogratsano, Kafffygi, the village that was born by Alexis Zorbas in a thousand five hundred meters, the Holy Sunday in the nine hundred-five meters and forested areas covering about 70% of the total area, because the volume of Pieria is essentially the volume of Pieria. In his initial "KALIKRATI" project and with the relevant opinion of the Institute of Local Government, Velvet was autonomous. In other words, Kozani prefecture would have five municipalities: Kozani, Ptolemais, Voio, Servia, Velveto. But under the responsibility of the then government it was abolished. It was a mockery for the inhabitants. It has been abolished at the last minute and this major problem has been created for our region, especially for Velvet, but also for the whole of Kosanis. But what is Velvet worth such discrimination? Velvet has a hundred-year-old, unique country, exemplary cooperative tradition in the agricultural sector. The first statute of the agricultural cooperative is 1917. As a lawyer, I've got it in my hands. It's a historical relic now. Over a century, the cooperative rural movement has been operating perfectly with two cooperatives in the past decades, "ASEPOP" and "DIMITRA", with exemplary action in the production and marketing of peaches. I do not forget the visit of the friend and previous Secretary-General of Commerce, Mr Papaderaki, who said: 'You are 20 children.' And it is said by a Cretan who, if anything, knows from farmers and from the rural world. However, it is not only “ASEPOP” and “DIMITRA”. They act at all levels in the Velvet Club, which creates a strong spirit of communism: the Velvetou Morphotic Association with multitude, cultural, cultural and publishing activities, the Sports and Mountain Club with a strong and distinctive presence on a pan-Hellenic level, the Velvet Motor Sports Association. There have also been libraries - standards for decades, a militant rural club and an exemplary TWG. Note: Velvet TWO does not owe PPC, as they owe all over Greece. On the contrary, he has profit and he has built his own hydroelectric plant. That's the Velventines. They have models all over the country and all sectors. How did this so self-organised society react to the affliction of its dissolution without taking into account its opinion at all? He reacted by direct-democratic procedures, by referendums and by popular assemblies. In Velvet, direct democracy is taught. I've also lived it because of my relationship with the area, as my wife is from there and as a lawyer who has been fermented all the years with many bodies. I am not forgetting electoral procedures in the TWG or other organisations and the fact that the statutes are literally respected. In other words, they say 'unanimously' and say 'no, we shall vote in secret'. You don't find that anywhere. I personally had the responsibility of holding two referendums. Everything was done perfectly with huge participation. The referendums had 75%. Many popular conventions were held that often had more than two thousand attendance. Tell me where it will become a people's assembly in Greece and have two thousand people participated. Tell me a municipality of Athens or Thessaloniki. I do not forget the thrill of everyone in the popular assemblies when the letter of the Velventines abroad, Wildwood Philadelphia in America, Australia, or the Velventinian Athens club, which also provided financial support for the struggle for autonomy. That hurts. But I do not forget the pleasure of all those who came to the call to vote for the referendum on their autonomy or for the elections for their self-organisation. They said "First time we vote happy. For the first time, we have voted without commitments, but for something that we want." These remain indelibly engraved. Let us make it clear that the passion of the Velventines for separatism does not mean any hostility at all to the people and inhabitants of the surrounding area, the municipality of Serbia. In fact, I would like to stress that the Municipality of Velvetou, in the explanatory statement, was economically sound municipality, and its association made him a loss. Yes, he was so healthy that he had an acquired speed, and the first time after his combination, things were going watch. Then the situation collapsed in the next few years. I don't forget they're so householders the people who took care of and filled the tanks with oil so that the next year would come out without a problem, so they wouldn't ask the new municipality. The Velvents know that their segregation will be costing now. They'll have to pay debts that don't account for them because they were financially sound. However, they say: 'We know, we will pay what we have to do, as long as we take our autonomy'. But what about other cases across Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Colleague, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u4	I will be very brief, Mr President. Only in Kozani's Prefecture we have Aiani, Voio, Kambunia, which each have its documentation and they say "we are also thinking about taking this step". The amendment provides for them. A committee will be set up to examine cases throughout Greece as to whether to proceed to further separatism. They are not political responsibilities for PASOK and the New Democracy for stumbling against Velvet and when they abolished it and the years that they did not reinstate it, while the political staff of the region participated in the government and indeed the Ministry of Interior. I'm closing, Mr. President. I'll talk about the hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u5	Yeah, but it's eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u6	It's a big deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u7	Everything is major, nobody has any objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u8	I'm hanging up. The administrations of the two hospitals of Kozani and Ptolemais, Bodosaceo and Mamaceio are separated. This is something that the people of Ptolemais and Arida have been asking for for for years. A consistent request from the people of Ptolemais and Arida is met. I would like to stress that today's administration has gone very well in the functioning of both hospitals and must be a concern and care for all of us - and it will be, Minister - so that the new administrations can continue this work. This is a historic moment for Kozani, particularly for Velvet, but also for the separatism of the hospital in Ptolemais and Kozani, and I therefore ask you to vote in addition to the bill, which is very important, and these amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u9	It is a good request from the Bureau to keep the seven-minute period because they are still twenty-five speakers and four parliamentary representatives. Of course, they'll follow secondary course. There may be interventions between the Ministers. So the predetermined time for about 14:00 is an inappropriate dream, let me the word. I would ask you again to keep the seven-minute. Mrs Venus Theopevtatou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be consistent in time. Ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to welcome the regulations of the Ministry of Health concerning islands and, in particular, the recognition of the problem of the staffing of health structures in our hospitals and health structures as a whole, so that there are facilities for their more effective staffing. In fact, I would like to talk about the amendment by the Minister of Interior of Alexis Haritsis concerning one of the two islands I represent here, about how the 'KALIKRATI' law worked on our islands and how this is to be solved. Ladies and gentlemen, this broad social dialogue has started since 2013, when the then Minister of the Interior Mr.Michelakis asked the municipalities, after two years of implementing the 'KALIKRATI', to present their views on this doctrine - to say so - 'an island of a municipality'. It was also tabled by the then Member of the Lesvos, Mr Sifunaki, that an amendment to this effect was tabled against us because only the populations did they qualify. It was said yesterday and by Mr Athanasios that the criteria should be population. We disagree and I'll explain it to you. Our island, Kefalonia, is a very large island with an irregular shape and a very high mountain in the middle that creates difficult areas. It is characteristic that on this island there are seven ports in action, because it is difficult to access and there are seven ports to serve the island with Aetolokarnania, Peloponnese, Zakynthos and Lefkada. So this amendment, which sets additional criteria, comes: apart from population, economic and social and geomorphological, which is very important. These problems created by this term ‘an island of a municipality’ were also intensified by the earthquakes of 2014 and 2015. As you know, Kefalonia is the most seismic area of Eurasian plaque. Problems had already been created before the earthquakes and they were exacerbated by earthquakes and by their restoration. The problems with the changes brought about by the memoranda and the policies of austerity in terms of declining regional services - Ismail, town planning, IKA - in the individual municipal units, reducing the funds of the municipalities and gradually undermining the services for the sake of separation, retirement, etc. were also exacerbated. At the same time, the municipal authority has shown that it is unable to exploit the positive elements of the "Kalikrati" which have to do with the representation of the individual municipal units in order to be represented through their collective bodies. The result is to completely abandon regional municipal units. This particular amendment, which consists of five articles, has the specific timetable that we need to take concrete action in one month and three months, by 1 September to be undertaken by the new municipal authorities, a timeframe for the new municipal services to be staffed with their legal persons, with their assets. It is also very interesting that the fifth article of this amendment, which recommends a committee which has to do with changing the boundaries of the cultural municipalities, so that self-government really is the institution of direct democracy, that citizens have access to the municipalities and participate in the decisions that concern them, so that they participate in decisions to develop their place in their own place. This, ladies and gentlemen, is very important for our society. Eight years after the implementation of the "KALIKARAT" these failures are corrected, as the Minister said yesterday, we fully agree and invite you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u11	Thank you to Mrs Theopevettus and to the economy in time. Mr. Theocharis from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will also try to help you in your work in relation to the time. I will therefore resist the temptation to talk about general issues of everyday life, about the problems that we are witnessing. I will resist talking about the bill as a whole, a bill that actually seems to be a bill of tactical, ruptured and fragmentary, a bill that suits a government which is on the way to its last few months of power and is trying to settle various cases. I will only refer to one issue, the issue that has arisen in relation to steam products and the products of the heater cigarettes in relation to the normal cigarettes that are burning. With these provisions you level the two types of products, considering them exactly as dangerous as cigarettes. This is a mistake, Minister, and in my view you should withdraw it. I shall refer to a number of arguments which, in my view, show that this decision is incorrect and will be a sign of political courage to withdraw even temporarily, until the consultation is concluded, these provisions, as you should do, as the European Union has asked you to do. The first argument is the absence of emergency violence. There is a process today, it works, you can make ministerial decisions or not make ministerial decisions and therefore allow or prevent a product from claiming to be less harmful to the extent that it does not have the necessary documentation. So you have no reason to change these provisions. The second is the moral argument. There are some studies. For example, I will tell you a sense and a number of discussions have caused a Greek study by Professor Farsalinou, a cardiologist from Onasios, who is a study announced in the 5th E-cigarette Summer. It is the first study carried out by an independent source, not subsidised by the tobacco industry and has a number of beneficial effects. In other words, it says, for example, that the aerosol of the heater in relation to the burning tobacco produces 90% aerosol with less toxic aldehydes, such as formaldehyde and aldehyde and 99% less aldehydes in total, which have been incriminated for cancer. However, let us say that there are not enough studies, that you are not convinced of this study or of someone else that has come out. You have no reason to accept and equate cigarettes. You can do it on a case-by-case basis. So demand more or finance, if you like, and other studies, but there is no reason to bring this provision. The third argument is the transnational argument. There are other countries with such provisions. England, Italy, Austria, Portugal and even after the study of the World Health Organization, Cyprus, Bulgaria. From outside the European Union it is the United States and New Zealand. In other words, these provisions are not unprecedented, to say that they are a Greek specificity and to abolish them. I come to the argument of responsibility, if these products are indeed better, because we understand that there is no white, black. Whatever you do, even nicotine surfs to put on, that has some results. It may help you to quit smoking, but it has some consequences. There's nothing completely innocent. If these products are better and yet, because they cannot be advertised, some remain in the worst smoking today, these people will have an impact. And you have a responsibility as Minister of Health to let them know whether or not these products are better. Fifth argument, empirical: we all know these products. We've seen them. We've seen how much less it affects the atmosphere that makes steam compared to someone who smokes. I'm a man I don't smoke. I don't like cigarettes. I never smoked. I am therefore extremely disturbed by cigarette smoke. These products bother me much less. So at least for responsible smokers one cannot claim to be the same harmful one. The sixth argument is work. These companies involved in this industry have ten thousand workers. They're two thousand businesses. Suddenly, in one day, you're changing their ability to work with the same conditions as they used to. You can't do this in a hurry. Then we have the investment argument. We have 300 million invested by a Greek company in the Greek territory that makes you export and you come in one day and you change the data for this investment. What signal do you give to the next investors? You have told us about growth and development. We have the point of order. The European Union has forced you through the TRIS process to consult these provisions. And you've been in consultation by June 6th. Why don't you let the consultation end before you vote? Otherwise, it's illegal. Finally - and I am closing with that, Mr President - we have the conspiracy argument. Close the mouths to which they may think or claim that you want to help in this haste - which I have demonstrated that there is no reason - specific interests such as cigarette importers, other businesses, anything other than those that are in Greek territory that have Greek officials. Do you do it because by June 6th, you're already in elections, and you're in a hurry? Remove it, Minister. You have no reason to keep insisting on this mistake. It's the only legal thing you can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u13	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I will give the floor to the Minister to announce which Members' amendments will be accepted. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Of the Parliamentary amendments, which total eighteen, we are doing the following: The overall number of 1980 and Mr Igoumenidis's specialist 145 for monthly remuneration of ERC hospital administrators. The General Number 1981 and Mr Bargiotas's Special Representative for the Elimination of his/her obligation to give an opinion on matters within the ERM. The general numbering of 1985 and Mrs Karasharlidou's special 148 for the integration of the city of Naoussa into the problem and infrequent category I areas. The total number 1986 and a special number 149 of the Members of the European Parliament. Papadopoulos, Athanasios, Antoniou and others for newspaper compensation from the Biochemical Department of the General Hospital of Attica "Sismanoglio Amalia Fleming". O by General Number 2017 and Special Special Representative 167 of etc. Athanasios Papadopoulos, Christos Manda and Eleni Stamatakis - amendment of article 74 of Law 4461/2017 for registration at the Panhellenic Association of Workers. The overall number 2020 and the specific 170 of my colleague Mr Spiros Lappa is also accepted: “Out of responsibility of the administrations of nurses due to an extension of the fixed-term work contracts for medical and other subsidiary staff.” Finally, Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos' general number 2021 and Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos's 171 specialist is accepted for an unhealthy work allowance of the AEMY Health Units.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. Mr Economou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, sixteen months of legislative annoyance and governmental racism on the part of the Ministry of Health have taken place until we come here today. They were, of course, months rich in communal artifacts and tireless "surfing" and overworking of the Deputy Minister in social media. It was sixteen months with draft laws that disappear and reappear after months and others that stay in the drawers of the Ministers for Health, but which are recorded in the conscience of the Greek people, the failures of the present government in major issues of public health and health care, such as family doctors, who do not exist, the unnecessarily few TOMYs who are working and the intensified treatment beds that do not exist. However, there are endless ranches of ranches, there are dozens of victims of epidemics, but the SYRIZA eloquently lacks the prevention and information of citizens, vaccinations in high-risk groups. At the end of the four-year period and in the west of the present government, you are bringing us a huge, sloppy and dysfunctional bill, with few digits of reformist logic, but with large-scale idealism and counter-reformation. It is well-known and internationally recorded that governments on the run have a tendency to concentrate responsibilities in the hands of central political and party administration to control the state for small-party benefits. At this stage we are here today. This centralisation runs this bill, shows the panic of a government on a runway, is perpendicular to the interests of the Greek citizen and creates great problems in public health. As a New Democracy, we are firmly oriented towards a single, decentralised, collaborative system, as we have described in detail in the presentation of the health programme very recently, under the responsibility of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. I will not go into the individual details of the bill for a long time. He has done so, after all, exceptionally, and he will continue to do so. I am going to stir up some points only in the short time of my speech. Firstly, I should like to begin with the subject of the most important amendment that you have tabled at the last minute on the pricing of medicines. I urge you here today to withdraw this amendment, Minister. It will be a major issue for your Government, for you personally and for the Ministry of Health political leadership. It is wrong to charge this amendment. The time when you put your hand in the public prosecutor's hand as SYRIZA, the time of Scandalism cannot throw a veil of these kinds and forms of political intervention, which, in the opinion of the New Democracy, create a major political and moral issue. I would therefore inform you that you should be careful about this amendment. Withdrawal from it, in order for a consultation and debate to take place on how the invoices of medicines now have to be invoiced. You will remember - you want, you do not want - what you have been saying for so many years, Mr. Manda. We will also not set up public courts on these issues, but we will judge the intentions and effects of your legislative initiatives, especially yesterday's accelerated amendment. You can understand that when they restrict themselves to the reference countries, that certainly means an increase in prices for patent medicinal products. And that means that there is a clear margin of profit. And, of course, your commitment that there is 10%, you understand that it creates a major issue that we will raise in the Chamber today. It will be the issue to which Mr Paulakis and you will have to apologise now. From there, matters will take their way. Don't get into this trap. I know and I understand there are commitments. I know and I understand that you've had conversations and consensuals. Don't get into that story! It'll be a dead end for you. A second issue in CEDEFOP: "The mountains and the mountains have become common", according to our position. This Halloween disguise of CEDEFOP to another state agency really doesn't help anything. All these organisations, as you know, operate internationally as independent and autonomous bodies. Now to build another state, tough, public-law body, which is subject, in fact, to a suffocating ministreal, party control of the administration and workers, we think that it cannot help the matter at all and its role as a body that can play a major role in public health. I'm putting it to you at the outset. National Institute of Neoplasms: Part two government hypocrisy. If you want to see how the foundations go for a truly comprehensive national plan to combat chronic diseases, with a crown of battle against cancer, I really call on you to read the New Democracy Health Programme more carefully about the chronic diseases, because the criticism I saw you were doing was very superficial and very rough. Apparently, you didn't have the time. But do bother to read a little of our programme, listen to it, and you will see that especially on these issues, our proposal is of great interest. We want to be involved in a national effort and avoid micropsies and micro-groups - photographic, indeed - practices. You have effectively devaluated the National Archive of Neoplasms and you are bringing a Legal Person of Private Law - this is surprising, of course, by the prisoners - with dozens of recruits, but forwarders, and without planning, with suffocating party control, opaque criteria in the selection of the President of the Board and the staff skills. On the other hand, you do not predict a sustainable budget and measurable resources anywhere, leaving it to be cancerd between disasters and incorruption. The cancer patients and their relatives have the right to complete health care and we are committed to obtaining it very soon. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as the issue of private clinics is concerned, I will say this: it is true - and I shall end, Mr President - a memorial need and obligation, which you are fulfilling, since we have come out - as we have learned! - from the Memorandum. You normally do your lesson and your work, as the troika has put it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u17	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u18	Easy, Minister, facebook doesn't work in the morning alone. So since you've been applying the memoranda, since you've been out of the memoranda, it would be very interesting to codify the private clinical framework, as long as it wasn't rough and unprocessed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Economou, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u20	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have many such remarks. Mr. Fotillas has done them. I'm just finishing up with the TOMY thing. In committee too, the Minister is trying - his hair drowned, of course - to find differences and interpretations, we would like to say to him that the TOMYs and the arrangements that he brings here to the various articles - licences, training permits, the setting of health allowances, the detention of TMY posts in the event of absence, etc. - all this is worthless. The TOMYs have failed. The TOMY is a state institution, which you are trying to load under a national system that really needs other things. We have the Health Centers. We'll incorporate the TOMY in the Health Centers. The main primary health unit for the New Democracy will be the Health Centers. It makes no sense to put in many forms and levels of state units which will make it difficult and costly for primary health.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u21	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u22	So you get into a brave assumption too. In any case, a hundred you've made all of all of the two fifty with which you'd start for 30% of the population's coverage. This case is a fiasco. Take the decision! Admit it! Ask for an apology from the world, because you've ruined money for free and verose, to go to the Health Centers to support them and make the public Health Centers together an effort to be able to support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 21st High Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Dimitriadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, indeed parliamentary time, the parliamentary work is very dense and this is not a miserable one of the reality of politics. After the end of the memoranda and after the budget we have tabled, which for the first time is expansive and not adaptable, we are given the opportunity to be able to speed up the work of government, so that our programming commitments on the basis of political reality can be achieved to the fullest extent possible, precisely because that is why we need the place, because these are the needs of the many. At the heart of our political project is the social state and therefore health. With this bill - for which I will be allowed to say very few things, because at the heart of my interest are two specific amendments relating to my region, the Kosanis - we regulate private clinics, we create the National Institute of Neoplasms, we are introducing a number of regulations concerning medicines and improvements to the work offered to health. Given that we have saved the Public Health System since the collapse in previous years, we have spent some time in the steady upgrading of the public health system, as well as national health, and we are all regulating a number of issues towards this qualitative upgrading in both the public and private sectors. In short, we are emphatically closing a Memorandum of Understanding. One example of all this is the amendment concerning the separation of certain hospitals, whose administrations were united in memorandum, while they were independent, otherwise independent, in an attempt to create an administrative hybrid aimed, ultimately, at shrinking and assimilating autonomous agencies. In this direction was the administrative combination of Kozani and Ptolemais Hospitals. For this combination - apart from being a hybrid of administration and not being in any other area of public administration, neither in our country nor in the European Union - the only criticism one can make is that we are late to do so. This has happened, however, precisely because our priority was to save the health system and the hospitals in the country - as I said before - and not the individual quality upgrades and administrative reclassifications, which are indeed urgent, which really solve problems in favour of both hospitals in this regard. Because we must realise that the potential developed by the administrative liberalisation of the two already autonomous agencies is in the interests of both, for the benefit of public health in both regions and of all Western Macedonia. Especially now that, at the Ministry of Education's level, the University of Health Sciences in Ptolemais, and hence the corresponding part of it that should deal with the subject of the university clinic, is being released and creates new prospects in an area where, in addition, it absolutely needs these interventions, precisely because of its geopolitical value, but precisely because it is in a phase of transition from the coal economy to new economies. And what we must bear in mind above all is that in the new economies it must also be the knowledge-based economy. The second important thing that brings me before you is the amendment concerning the division of the municipalities, precisely because within the five municipalities it provides, it also provides for the division of the Municipality of Serbia - Velvetou, which belongs to my own constituency. KALIKARATIS brought together previously horizontal ones. The most important problem, however, which has inherited us, is that there is a deficit of representation - especially proportional representation - a deficit of adaptability in terms of self-government as such and completely ignored the needs of local communities. In short, within some of the good things he has brought, it has brought us too many malfunctions in the past nine years, which we have to see, locate and finally change. So 'CLINEN I', which we have brought, has indeed brought a significant change in democratic representation. It brought the simple analogue, greater autonomy to the communities and the culture of scheduling on municipal and regional councils. Because the most important problem for the local government and the model that has been imposed in the Greek region is the unity of municipalities in terms of islandity and mountainity. The needs of good governance, operational governance and sustainable governance therefore force us to take forward initiatives for the development and well-being of citizens. And that is always the constant request for us. It is, above all, the constant request for the Greek inland, for cases where I have just said, the mountains and the islands, precisely because it is a set that needs to be listened to so that our interventions can be positive. The need, therefore, for changes and breakdowns in the island and mountainous hinterland is imperative where we have examples of the failure of the combinations, where there is a risk of the functionality of the municipalities, where the inequalities remain and are widened at the expense of the citizens. In short, the principle of good and fair local governance is lost. To date, we have just a legislative work for mergers. There's no decay of municipalities. So we dare - because we must - and we are creating the framework and the conditions for how it will be done from this point on. We therefore move on, firstly, with careful steps towards a limited and limited framework on the whole of the municipalities and on the basis of the maturity that has been put forward and the documentation of the proposals that have been in place in recent years, precisely because the starting point is to resolve the issues in the next few years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Wait a minute, please. So the methodology we submit and approved to apply from now on is for the following five first municipalities, Serbia - Velvetou, Lesvos, Kefalonia, Corfu and Samos. The method first presupposes a resolution of the municipality's property issues, debts, staff, immovable property, programmes and electoral lists. The conditions we have and apply are the consent of all interested parties in the division, particularly of local communities, of the existing municipality, and of course, of political persons and political spaces to that effect. I therefore present to Parliament all the positions and the unanimous decision of the City Council of the Municipality of Serbs - Velvetou, for this very procedure, which demonstrates that there is an absolute consensus. Because it is of enormous importance, in order to achieve the break-up project, not to act as a problem, but as an opportunity to solve problems. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second is that the conditions and conditions of good and good governance of local government, when provenly we have surpluses, social culture, direct democracy, cooperative spirit, culture - say me, former Municipality of Velvetou - as well as effective and functional governance...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Dimitriadis, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President. ... there is no reason for this fact to be interrupted and simply to be part of a model, which is simply imposed. Therefore, the deterioration of the situation by mergers, when it is already demonstrated - in other words - that it is not functional, that it has failed and continues to widen the problem and inequality at the expense of all citizens, we must have a law correction aimed at recovery and sustainability. In the event of bankruptcy, therefore, we must hurry and know the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Dimitriadis, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u28	I shall conclude, Mr President. Firstly, on the one hand, it is a new age of potential.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Demetriades, you're gonna make me turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u30	Secondly, it is an opportunity for both local communities to resolve their problems with their own forces and always with the help of the state, knowing that where there is a deficit, in this particular case, we have the tools of the new trans-national structures in waste, technical services, the JHA and the energy communities. The principle of good governance in terms of democracy, flexibility, adaptation, with a view to development, is our political priority and we will also work for it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u31	You're not helping. What else can I say? You're not helping at all. To ask the Bureau, to ask again, to insist. Please keep the seven-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u32	Let's have a little fun!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u33	For fun, Mr. Polakis, there are spaces and ways and places. Mr Kelles has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, public health policy is a pillar for the operation of the social state around the world. Medical care and the provision of quality health services are a prerequisite for human development. In the light of the international environment, we should develop a long-term strategy beyond parties and political interests. However, so far, your government, Ministers, has taken no initiative, remaining in the past. I am not talking about personally, but I am referring in general to the absence of national strategic planning. This project does not promote the upgrading of public health. On the contrary. There are problematic arrangements that cause questions and put us to thought. I'll start with private clinics. Inevitably with the proposed solutions you know that they will close thirty of the ninety clinics that operate today, that is, you are actually driving a thousand five hundred people to unemployment and at such a time. As far as the establishment of the National Public Health Agency is concerned, you are abolishing the CEDEFOP and in its place you are recommending the EGE, in other words, saying that the institutional framework of the first is incomplete and has no cohesion. I wonder: Since CEDEFOP is ineffective as a legal person of private law, which is commonly the more flexible legal form of operation, as is the case in all European countries, what makes you think that the EGE will be more effective as a legal person governed by public law? As regards the arrangements laid down in Article 62(3) for the transport of personnel, it is 'in the air', contrary to the National Institute for Neoplasms, the EEE, for which staff posts are clearly provided for. But EEE is a legal person under private law too. So when it comes to the effectiveness of legal form, why do you not do so, too, a legal person governed by public law? His predecessor, the National Archive of Neoplasms, the NAN, operating in CEDEFOP, had recorded fifty-four thousand patients and a reliable database of neoplasms was created. When his funding from the NSRP ended, IAN was left to his luck, and now you bring the EEE. Why is that? I come to another point, which is positive, but it needs a comprehensive framework and a lot of work to avoid having the luck of the Odysseus programme. We look positively at the creation of supervised drug use sites. It is important to reduce the proliferation of infectious diseases and public nuisance. It is right and we must act so that people do not die out in parks, when there are families and children next to them, but that requires cooperation between both the police and the Ministry of Justice. A lot of questions are raised with this article that you are bringing about the legalisation of expenditure. In Articles 107 and 108, you legalise wage bills for the responsibility of the ESS and CEDEFOP, without providing for the relevant organic units, as is the case for the Ministry of Health for the Thessaloniki Exhibition and, of course, for what we lack from the bill by way of derogation from any provision. That's standard in every bill. What's the cost? For whom? I think, Mr President-in-Office, that you know much better than I do that they create a bad precedent than they do at the same time. Also, what you bring with the coverage of the EKAB administration what is it? And why do you provide legal coverage to the administration of the EAW and do you not give to the employees of the EAW, who know under what conditions they work, who are adverse and too exhaustive?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u35	We put it in the amendment. We filed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u36	You did very well. Good for you. In closing, I return to the quality of the health services provided. You know and I know very well that the staffing of hospitals with new staff is an undeniable necessity. Arrangements for the extension of the training of doctors in ICUs and MENs for two years, as well as the extension of contracts by qualified persons, are not a solution to the problem. We need appointments. I would like to give you, Mr President-in-Office, that concerns both of you - today's and yesterday's headlines of the newspaper 'Larissa', which you know is one of the largest provincial newspapers in the country. It has a front page: "Open all surgery at Larissa University Hospital" and blames the Ministry's political leadership. And today, along with the dean of the University of Thessaly: "Scream of agony for medicine and university." I give it to you. I'll testify them if you want, see them, and they're all random.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u37	Where does the agony come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u38	But there's no personal. The rooms are closing, they can't put on the surgery. On the one hand we don't operate on the other side to operate in the hospital and we don't have rooms and anesthetics. Hey, it's not all happening! Decide what you want! I now come to an important issue, Mr Polakis, which concerns you in particular, since you are responsible for the EEA. I don't have anything personal, you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u39	I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u40	The whole problem was created with the change of the EMS, with the joint ministerial decision. You know, of course, that from 1-11-2018 there is a stop to payments to clinics, rehabilitation centres and physiotherapists. What do you expect to solve this? Will you bring in some amendments? There are serious functional problems in the clinics. Because in the joint ministerial decision of 1-1-2018, imports are controlled in real time. Was there the necessary infrastructure on the EEA, Mr. Polakis? There wasn't. Was there a verification committee in real time of imports? There wasn't. Since February 1st. What about November, December and January when clinics have not satisfied financially?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u41	I'll answer you. Don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u42	Here we must admit that the EEA is making huge efforts and really has reached a height of 70% -80%. I'm not lying to you. I'm telling you real. And if I lie, please tell me. Would it not be reasonable first to harmonise the services of the EEAS and then come this change of the regulation? Not to mention the irrationality that the EMCDDA says in it. I'm going to tell you a simple example, since here we are all doctors, both ministers and I, and the President. Do we have an incident, a total hip stays at the clinic six to seven days so he can then introduce to a rehabilitation center? All over the world it is commonly accepted that the reduction in tariffs is directly combined with the rapid movement of patients. A total hip, then, in three - four days, can go away. Why should it be six to seven days, at the cost of hospitalization in the public hospital - and I don't think you have any objections to that - far higher than the cost of hospitalisation in a rehabilitation centre? These show not just lack of planning, but curiosity. The mission of the Greek state is to care for the health of citizens, in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Constitution. Embryo movements are not really going to change anything. The priority of our prolongation for the next day will be the recruitment of staff both in health and in education. Education and health are the two pillars with priority. And this new day is not too late, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u43	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Corporate of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, seventeen students and students and an educational attendant from the Private Municipal School of Kanassas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I return to the question of the development of our debate on this bill. You can see, too, from the list, that twenty more one or twenty more speakers are missing. I repeat that there are four other Members of Parliament, interim interventions of Ministers, closures of ministers, second readings. I would remind you that yesterday in the timetable for today's sitting, the end of the sitting was set, namely a vote, etc. the bill, for the 14:00 p.m. This, based on the remaining number of speakers and, as I said before, Parliamentary and so on, will not be observed. We'll go after 15:00, possibly 16:00. I wish I could be disproved. However, in order not to deprive anyone of the floor and not to put too much pressure on the Bureau, because it is not pleasant at all to interrupt speakers and to ask them to shorten or, in any case, to keep time, I would propose after six speakers, namely the number thirty one and then, in particular, Mr Rizzos, to reduce the time by at least one minute to save time. Of course - and I am closing with this - I would like to ask both Members and Ministers to keep track of time and not to intervene, because it will also be at the expense of discussing this bill, but you know very well that there is a bill that follows and as much as it goes back, the services will be pressed, and the Members and ministers who will be respectively in the bill that follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, because of a lack of commitment and because of the position of my colleague, I would like to make my position now as Minister. It won't be total. I apologise to Mrs Vaki, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u45	All right, Minister. But Mrs Vaki should speak first and then you should. Mrs Vaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, although we are discussing an excellent bill, I will be allowed to speak only on a point, on the amendment by the Ministry of Interior concerning the administrative division of the municipalities, including the division of the Municipality of Corfu. Ladies and gentlemen, the left-wing position of the left was, over time, the administrative division of the country in small and operational municipalities that will disguise the voice of local communities and claim their decentralisation by the central state. The violent merging of municipalities by KALIKARATIS alone in the light of the state's cost savings, alienated the small communities, smeared their voices and reproduced in local government a centralised model. As regards the island municipalities, the calli-state authority “one island, one municipality” created many speed island municipalities. The economic crisis and the memorials are true that they have further refined the already anaemic budgets and led to subsistence of services and therefore to de facto administrative insufficiency and desertion of municipalities. Therefore, treatment of pathogens and distortions of the cali-state model is considered necessary. Unfortunately, however, the way, the timing and some specific features - and I shall refer to them - and problems of Corfu, which have been chosen by the government are not the most appropriate ones. I know that what I'm going to say will sound a little heretic. In particular, firstly, the reform of the self-government Charter, in my opinion, must be carried out in a whole and not fragmented manner. The administrative division of municipalities should be carried out through studies, with extensive consultation, with all the authorities involved, but also with active involvement of local societies and producer organisations. Secondly, the division of a municipality must obviously be done to solve it and not to regenerate years and time problems. Therefore, it requires in-depth treatment, design and dowry. I am pleased to see from the report by the General Accounting Office of the State that resources are being disbursed. Municipalities are obviously not demarcated with stakes and it is not enough for a desk to be housed. Adequate resources, staff, logistical infrastructure and services are needed in order to become operational and to fulfil their purpose. Otherwise, we are not talking about new municipalities, but about civil service centres. Sometimes some government policies or choices may be inconsistent with local fairness and interests. Corfu, it is true, is among the lucky ones chosen under fragmented areas, but the juncture and problems currently facing it does not allow celebrations, I fear. Besides, away from us localistic selfishness and majestic promises, unintentional demagogues and wicked closures of the eye. These do not at all fit in a left-hand style and ethos. I'm explaining. The garbage. The garbage is a difficult summer and not only constitutes a time bomb for the public health and the economy of the island, but unfortunately they also gave birth to other political garbage, these extreme right-wing and fascist forms in the island's uniquely licensed area at the moment of disposal of waste in the south, in which a daily noise of war with multi-harmed institutions and democracy is miraged. Municipal councils meet in the presence of police forces, heretics are prevalent, dolphins and arsons at the premises of the HYYY are on the agenda. So you realise that I do not want to facilitate the electoral expression of extreme right-wing formats in the southern part where a specific KYYY civil is unfolding every day. I'm going to some technical issues, and I'm expressing some anxiety. One wonders what is going to happen at the moment and I am of course referring only to Corfu with emergency projects, such as the integrated waste management and the integrated management plant that is now on study, when in the two months before the election, given the administrative instability of the pre-election period, added to the transitional period from 1 September 2019 to 1 March 2020, during which - I read - ‘the Transitional Organisation for Internal Affairs should be established in order to prepare the organisational and service structure of the new municipalities, the placement and the assignment of tasks to employees’. One wonders how quickly urgent projects will be launched in Corfu, when the former municipality in liquidation will not have an economic object to carry out interventions by 1 September, because it will not have a budget. Let it be underlined that there is no arrangement for the allocation of the regular State grant in the amendment. In addition, the active municipal authorities should proceed to an asset valuation for a sworn accountant who should have completed the inventory and valuation by 31 July. Finally, I note that for the co-financed projects or those financed by the Public Investment Programme in the new municipalities, operations and projects submitted up to 31 August continue to be carried out normally. Wonderful. Only if there were so generous mayors who would now start works to leave them dowry to the next, we would live in the best possible world. It should be noted that auctions are forbidden two months before the elections. And since I referred to generosity, let me read about the works that are running now. As soon as the municipality breaks, the Central Corfu Office will continue to do so. What generous man is going to do this? What good man from the Central City Service will work with solidarity and a sense of duty to run projects in the north and south? There should be policies that are horizontal and exist: water, waste management and so on. One question is how these services will work when there is only the transitional internal office organisation. Who will end up with each employee in a liquid and unfinished framework? With what staff will legal persons respond to their new duties, when they must not cover a municipality, but three different ones? Because in this case the economies of scale cannot function. I am ending with an ambiguity, I would like to see clarification, what will happen with debts and fines. For example, a fine pending in Lefkimia that is imposed on the municipality of South Corfu who will pay for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u47	Mrs. Vaki, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u48	In a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u49	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We'll go to nine and a half minutes. You are not helping, ladies and gentlemen. What can I tell you? Do what you understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I know that everything I say is obviously not likeable. I express a few concerns and reservations, because in this position I am in, some of my fellow citizens have sent me and I would like to be able to look at them in the eye. I would like to close by addressing the Minister for the Interior - he is not here - and I say: I beg you very much, Mr Minister, to take into account the objections and reservations I have raised, to take note of the major problem in Corfu, which I am not at all sure at all at this stage how the breaking of the municipality will cure it. I expect answers, I expect improvements in the way. I hope and hope to be disobeyed, I hope everything will go well. But I call for care. All this, so that the administrative gap that inevitably exists until the functioning of the new municipalities is consolidated, does not turn into an administrative chaos problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u51	Mr Paulakis, Deputy Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. I asked to speak earlier, and because of the speech made by my colleague from New Democracy, Mr Kella, who raised some questions which I think need to be answered, but also because at 13.30 hours after the invitation of Henry Dunn's workers' association - this large hospital now private clinical property of Piraeus Bank - I will go to talk to the workers there to confirm our Government's efforts to do what is going through its hand - and it is already done - to return under public control through the cooperation of the Greek Government with the Onassis Foundation. I'll say a few things about the bill. They've heard a lot since yesterday. I told the committees too. I would first like to refer to the part concerning private clinics. Look, first of all, there's a class coming into an anarchist landscape. He's in one class! We're pulling a line, and from now on we're going differently. First of all, all the scatters go into a law and create a clean and transparent framework for what will happen from now on. Let me make it clear, Mr. Kelles, that no clinics are going to be closed. Read the bill in detail. What you're saying may have been told by an alien to the Hypothet. Maybe! And the clinics aren't ninety. Clinics are a hundred and fifty-seven. And there's no 30 of them closing. That's why I'm telling you, who told you. If you read the articles carefully, you will see that we are not going to close. We regulate how many generals, how many mixeds, how many specials are. We are modernising their equipment. Because we still have some things like we're living in the '70s. All this is now being adjusted on the basis of modern data from science and from evolution to machinery and all equipment. Mr. Economou is gone. He's coming here, he's throwing something away and he's leaving! That was agreed that reform should be passed since we had the institutions here. On August 21st, they left. I did not see any of you referring to one of the main regulations it has, that the working arrangements of all the staff necessary for the functioning of the clinics will be conditional upon work and that there will not be this poor thing that has been done there. Since 2010-2011, after the flow of money from the insurance funds stopped, they began to change contracts, to stop contracts for dependent labour, take them on blocks, take them "blacks", "yellows", "green" or I don't know what, lowering their wages and pay them if and when! Can workers forget that at the time they did six months or eight months or ten months unpaid without any control by any control mechanism, why was the string closed due to the horizontal cuts by the EEAS? At the same time that you were closing the string at clinics that produced work, you increased from 10 million to 50 million the costs for the paddles and from 11 million you went to 48 million for the colostrums. Do they forget about these? Why don't you tell them? It's like you've fallen into the Hive the other day!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u53	We don't disagree about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u54	Why don't you say it? Is it right or wrong that from now on workers will be subjected to work and that they can be scientifically responsible at a clinic and not at three - four, which were previously and which you allowed to do so, so that new jobs can be created? Why don't you say what's in private clinics, and all you got, the twinkle, is if we put the 25 million drachmas or 70,000 euros in the clinics? Why did your people get up? There is the institutional framework which prohibits university or ERC doctors from working in private clinics. Isn't that it? It's gone, and I haven't gotten it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u55	If there is, why do you bring it back?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u56	Because you did this, Mr. Kelles, and you and the other socialist allies. You had the fine out of the clinic if he was concerned. So what's the result? There was the possibility of the doctor being individually denounced, but there was no possibility of entering the clinic. That's what you removed. Because, you know, some very big things are done with very small settings. I think it's understandable what's going on, right? This concerns both ERC doctors and academics. We are entering common rules, we once again define the concept of an independent and self-evident building, that all its spaces must be used for health use, that spaces are not functionally linked to another use. In legal terms, we resolve the issue raised in relation to penalties which should not be the responsibility of private clinics. There is an issue in relation to the prosecution of specific offences, such as drugs, child pornography and such crimes, which the prosecution of such offences prohibits being responsible for private clinics. Some things are being configured with the pedagogicals that had caused some problems there. I'd like to answer something else because it's been in place since yesterday. What goes through with the EAW and legal support is that, because the administrations we've put them in, they've gone crazy in the lawsuits. They're out of their minds, because some unions are losing the client regime they had before, and we're changing some things to some outsiders. What we do - practically we do not clean them up - is that we say that there can be legal support from the agency. Where's the mistake? You put people in the snake pit and tell them you're paying out of your pocket the suctions that will make you the ones who cut the cloth? So how have you seen it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u57	The workers?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u58	All of them. Listen, Mr. Kelles, don't be a protector for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u59	I'm not playing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u60	Don't have a dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u61	In both ERC hospitals and all services when there is an appeal by a private person to the services, etc., there is legal support both by decision of the boards of directors and by employees, etc. For their administrations themselves, the administration of EKAB did not exist, as there is for EKPY and other organisations to which various organizations are subjected and which also sue them not because they do not "go" them as persons, but because they do not like what they do as politics. You said some things before, and I want to talk about these. Mr. Kelles, what you're talking about with the clinics, which are not paid, etc., yes, it's foreseen. There is an amendment which unfortunately could not be tabled yesterday, otherwise we would have already supported it. It will be submitted today in the bill of the Ministry of Sports of Mr Vassiliou. It regulates a number of things about the EOGY and the DUTYKA. One of these things that regulates is the transitional period from 1 November to the beginning of February, the interval of the implementation of the new EMS, which says how they will be paid and gives the possibility, because not all the infrastructures for the implementation of the new EMS were ready, to clear the costs that were incurred at the time and to be paid to the providers. There is this and it will be tabled today because yesterday it was not possible to table it because of the large number of other amendments that have been tabled and which are good and correct amendments on the subject of the EEAS and the payment of clinics. I said a few things before about what EEAY has achieved over the past two years: from two billion to two billion a year, it is now practically time for zeros. Of course, every start and difficulty. That's how it's done, it can't be any other way. They're not "I make everything perfect and then I start", because you never start like that. We made political decisions with the EMCDDA, made changes on the basis of the bodies' proposals, some other fundamental changes were made to problems that have arisen, the logistics and information platforms have been created, and yes, now it can function and so we will proceed with the EEAS and its implementation. Don't worry about anything, we won't leave anyone unpaid. You also said some other things again with the EMCDDA about the Rehabilitation Centers. I'm saying that because you're throwing chats and people don't know. We know very well that a very large part - if you see the expenditure in the Rehabilitation Centres - is 6 million and it is the expenditure on open hospitals and 50 million is in closed hospitals. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing.]] Does that make sense to you? It doesn't make any sense to me. With the new EMCDDA, yes, we are trying to strengthen open hospitals and a series of old de-save diseases, we were going through the closed hospital. No, therefore, can be handled by open-medical MCAs. What you flew with the hip isn't the reality. It is that too many diseases with the former regime have been baptized or had been given the right in such a way to closed hospitalisation, and can be treated either by simple physical treatment at home or by open hospitals. At this point I will say two words about the CEDEFOP: it is now because the second prosecution broke and more - and I say it very clearly - they have delayed the production of the findings of the CEDEFOP. There's been an excellent conclusion from the House and it's been sent to the prosecutor. There are findings that are currently under way by the College of Inspectors. The second one came out, because beyond the twenty three appointments of Mr.Georgiadis, another seventy-four appointments came out with the same gang being behind again, with a felony, a subject that has been buried "SKAI", "ANDENNA", "STAR" etc. The conclusion comes, as far as I know, of management and advertising expenditure and of all others, and the time really fits, that we are closing this vicious past and going to a new organisation that will really be the country's Epidemiological Agency. About what you said about the Instituto de Neoplasias, that it was built, what did he make, Mr. Kelles? Do you know what you're saying? Who told you this? They had eaten. The way I say it, they had eaten! They had eaten 1,5m euros from the Anticancer Era product and around 2m euros from an ESRB programme to build an excel that said how many cancer patients we had in 2009 and 2010. That was the story of the Neoplasms Archive and I challenge anyone who has a different opinion on it. Can I repeat the numbers? It's 1.5m euros from the Anticancer Era product, that is, we made it a coma, and 2 million from a ESRB programme to build an excel where they collected the statistical agency's data and said they were doing something. This was the Neoplasms Archive, the basis you said the CDC built. That's it! With what we're building now, there'll be a strategy for cancer. See and the response of the space scientists in relation to this thing. Because we did the Anticancer Era's product after the machines at the "Transition", the "Game" and the "Savvas". Also, we changed radiation therapists, we got short-term treatments, we got mastographs, etc. That's what we did. We did not do it advertising on all sites, "ellasdimarxoi.gr", "velonakaiklosti.gr", etc., which was done through the ERIC to savage you. Because that's what happened!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u62	Minister, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u63	Not for me, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u64	That's what's happened. I am not talking about you personally, Mr Kella, but about many of those who are sitting on this bucket of the wing, because many of your colleagues have made their election campaign through this money. We're turning a page with this. Yes, our new social contract will reward the job, it will not reward the intermediates, it will not only reward the merchandise with an overpriced huge price to get half of it. Let's go for another social contract. What did you say before and did you close? And I thank you for your speech, because you gave me the right to respond to specific things. What did your Chief say the other day about the Health Program for the Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u65	What did he say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u66	He'll get, he says, two thousand nurses. They announced the day before, ten thousand people with four years of planning. If the 1 to 5 or 1 to 10 returns, which is your neoliberal obsession with the decrease...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u67	What four years? You'll be out of here in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u68	Easy, easy, don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u69	Please don't interrupt. Minister, let's close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u70	With this obsession to reduce the public sector, do you know where you're going to drive? To complete decommissioning and whatever thing there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u71	After you leave in two months. Your four-year-olds are over. You're not at first. Don't mess it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u72	Our four-year-olds are over and they've been hired - but it's not what SKAI, who probably sees this station every morning - eighteen thousand two hundred people since the beginning of the fourteenth century and another five thousand are on the way. You don't know, you didn't notice, did you? Are you swinging your head? That's the reality. And we announced these other ten thousand with two and a half thousand, starting this year. What priorities will you give in relation to recruitments? With those who have entered the OAED, with the ancillary staff, what are you going to do with contractors? Here the Economou came and said "these are the ones of siegeism, and the next day we will kick them out." What are you gonna do? Tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u73	Minister, you're about to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u74	Your health program is one thing: to grant private individuals. We put ten nine CTs on them working at public hospitals and we would have finished, if we hadn't taken it - come with the Court of Auditors or not. Others, however, are placed separately in Ikaria, to the right, to the left and to the other. What do you think? "I don't have to buy CTs. I'll give the exams from the outside, or I'll let a private person install a machine inside." This is your schedule. Contribution to the private sector. Yes, we have huge differences, as long as the weather goes, and here we come out of this 'game' that you thrown us and put the noose out of our neck, the more comfortable the differences will be. "Destruction, destruction, destruction" you tell us yesterday and borrowed the country with ten-year bonds with one of the historically low interest rates. Didn't you even see that? You've bet a lot of money on bets, too much money. ‘The evaluation will not end. There's gonna be a cutter out of it. You're not gonna make this summer. We're not getting out of the memoirs. We won't get out on the markets." It's all done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Polakis, please. But finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u76	Thus, it will not be implemented, and your prediction of your victory in the next elections will not be confirmed. And you know why? Because there is a very large part of Greek society, the low social strata, which compared to 2015 is better. They do not, however, get caught by these poll radars, they do not have a public reason, they do not have the obviousness of some social strata high in the middle strata in which, yes, we have, in fact, put heavy taxes in these two years and will slowly relieve it. But the middle strata too, not the upper ones, and that is what they see as accelerating the development process especially in the last year and we live it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u77	Good. Close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u78	That is why Greece will not go back to the gangsters who went bankrupt. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Micheloannakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, for a minute, I have to answer that question. For thirty seconds. It's personal. My name has been mentioned many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u81	Firstly, he has not referred to any staff that affects you. Secondly, I don't think he falsified any of your words.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u82	I didn't say he was falsified.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u83	Therefore, the two versions provided for in the Rules of Procedure do not exist. Mr. Micholiannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, I would have finished it already. Some of the answers are not true and we cannot leave them like that. I'm telling you, I need the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u85	There is a parliamentary representative, there is a special rapporteur who can speak at some point. Please, you don't need anything further.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u86	But I'd be done in thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u87	There is nothing to be recorded and let us respect Mr Michelovanakis. Mr. Micholiannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u88	But, Mr President, it needs to be explained what the staff are.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u89	I, too, will respond if you reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Micholiannakis, can you hear me? Do you want to talk or I'll call the next one?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u91	Thirty seconds, Mr President. He said a lot of things, answered me and I don't have the right to answer it? He told us he wouldn't close any clinics.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u92	No, Mr. Kelles. Not provided. Sit down. Please. Mr. Micholiannakis, will the Bureau wait long to start your speech? Can you hear me, Mr. Micholonnakis? It's time you knew.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really a sin in such a proper health bill to have in it an amendment that creates problems. Since November 2018, I have sent several letters to Mr. Haritsis. He was also visited by groups of residents regarding the autonomy of the municipalities. I mean, months, months, a lot of obsession, a lot of work for fair demands. And they came from New Alikarnassos. Historic, as you say and place selectively. It represents Hellenism in Asia Minor. Historical, financial self-sufficiency, democraticity, since on October 1, 2017 there was a unanimous decision, a popular referendum unanimously, for a re-establishment of the municipality. Farm was bought. They didn't do anything. Municipality of Zaru. Mountain area. Criterion we make in terms of the autonomy of municipalities. A martial village, on the subject of history. They have already lost 3 million from the union with the municipality of Phaistos. And it was a surplus municipality with 400,000, with a lake, Votomo, which can with its business and tourist potential offer great economic advantages. You forgot about that. City of Ruva. The Municipality of Gortyna is not viable. And as regards the re-establishment of the City of Ruva, a constant request again, a popular referendum again, unanimous answers again, nothing. Municipality of Tymbaki. Nice to meet Mr. Haritsi's speech yesterday. He said that "within these months we will also put Tympaki." He said it yesterday. But, a whole year I've been fighting, a year I've been shouting about the city's history. Since 1879 he has been autonomous. A year ago I say that in order to be sustainable and productive, it must be left alone and not unification. And it now says 'in two, three months' time'. So, in two, three months, what's going to happen? In fact, many voices came out and local MP voices were heard here. They are also controversial in terms of their autonomy. And it does not take examples of ours, which are data. Mr President, I would like it to be recorded in the Minutes first of all that the Minister, who is missing, must be made aware, and secondly, that I do not support, I do not vote for such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr Michelovannakis, and the economy in time, which is valuable. Mr. Nzimanis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the draft legislation under discussion, I will refer to two amendments concerning the Kosani Prefecture. The first amendment by the Ministry of Interior concerns the Municipality of Serbs - Velvetou. The Municipality of Serbia - Velvetou is a characteristic case of failure in the spatial planning of the country resulting from the "Kalikrati". The problems that have arisen in the Velvet region after eight years of implementation of the KALIKARAT are more than they were supposed to solve. The Capodistrian Municipality of Velvetou was a financially sound municipality with zero debts. It was a model of self-government and an example of the development of the Greek region and of productivity. Its agricultural cooperatives such as ASEPOP, the cooperative "Dimitra" and the women's rural and craft cooperative have an important place in economic development both locally and at a pan-Hellenic level. Velvet also has a long history with monuments of classical, Byzantine and post-Byzantine Greece. It is a popular tourist destination in the region of western Macedonia. The Kapodistrian Municipality of Velvetou had daily co-operation with the productive, cultural and sporting players in the region and this has a direct impact on the quality of life of its inhabitants, as well as on the growth rate that occurred in the region. This upward course of Velvetou was stirred sharply by its forced association with the Municipality of Serbs, the Municipality of Kambunia and the community of Livaderou. With the creation of the enlarged municipality of Serbs - Velvetou there were serious problems in its organisation and operation and serious economic and administrative diseases occurred that brought about the complete disorganisation of Velvet. Efforts to maintain Velvet's independence began long before the resolution of the "Kalikarat". As early as 2007, when planning the spatial planning, in fact in the original proposal of the Ministerial Council for the ‘Kallikratis’ project, Velvetou Municipality had been registered as an independent municipality. When the association with the Municipality of Serbia was legislated in 2010, all the people of Velvetou rose together and organized. They created the civil, non-profit corporation and non-governmental organisation “Belvet civil society” which has been operating since 2010 as a public assembly of citizens with an administrative board and a general assembly. To date, the residents held numerous public assemblies in which the decision was to remain an independent municipality. They established the match coordination committee with representatives of all the production and mass organizations in Velvet. They created the movement of women for the independence of Velvet. All these years there have been numerous events and gatherings in the region aimed at strengthening the effort for the independence of the municipality. Two informal referendums were held in 2010 and 2014 for his non-participation in the self-government elections. In both referendums, the overwhelming majority opposed participation in the elections with 96% in 2010 and 74% in 2014. These decisions were supported by the people of the region with their abstention from the self-government elections in 2010 and 2014. So the people's reaction was not isolated. On the contrary. This is a lasting, universal, mature and haunted request. For the re-establishment of the municipality, the inhabitants of Velvet themselves worked uninterruptedly at all levels. The municipal council of the current Municipality of Serbia - Velvetou with its decision of 29/2015 unanimously agreed to the division and re-establishment of the Municipality of Velvetou. The re-establishment of the Municipality of Velvetou restores a great injustice committed in the region. I am sure Velvet's society will be proud of the well-being of its struggle. As regards Amendment 2015/165, concerning the reintroduction of administrative and assets to hospitals in the ERC, I have the following to point out: with the independence of the administrations of the two hospitals of Kozani, Matseu and Bodosaceu, a problem will be solved that has troubled the local society for a long time. The unification of the two hospitals, not only did it not benefit, but prevented their development with adverse consequences, both for themselves and the workers, and for the hundreds of thousands of residents to whom they provide their services. The needs of the residents of Kozani for the provision of high quality health services make it necessary to operate the two hospitals autonomously. For a long time many residents have been troubled because the main hospital clinics have not invented daily, resulting in the difficulty of satisfying the needs of the lawmakers. I believe that this measure will upgrade the functioning of all clinical trials. Of course, the recruitment of medical and nursing staff will also contribute. Therefore, the merger measures of hospitals and clinics taken by the previous governments failed as they did not follow any further funding and recruitment of personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Nzimani. Mr Georgantas has the floor, and immediately thereafter Mr Panayotaros, the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I was prepared to speak today, I said that I would refer more to the matter of an amendment which Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos brought yesterday, which is mentioned in the register of public executives. But then I saw the Minister's amendment on the pricing of medicines, and I thought I had an obligation to mention my own thoughts and to denounce this amendment, because, beyond all, this amendment cancels my presence and the presence of all colleagues for twenty-two months in the Committee on Health. In the Committee on Health, twenty-two months later there was a constant reference, with negative comments, of course on the previous government's choice to choose the price of the product from the average of the three lowest prices in the European Union. And there was the argument of the majority, which the Prime Minister himself adopted, that in this way, as Greece participated in the process and in the way in which prices were set, it was possible for some to speculate. And I come today and see that's changing. What they were complaining about, what was called for twenty-two months on the Committee of Inquiry into Health, but also on the preliminary to NOVARTIS, in which I also participated, is coming to solve it. Do you know, gentlemen, how he solves this? We will no longer have the average of the three lowest prices from the European Union, but the average of the two lowest in the euro area. One can understand that another Eurozone and another European Union. In the European Union, we also have the countries of the old, as we said, Eastern Europe. You understand how much lower the cost is if you speak of the three prices from the European Union or of the two prices from the Eurozone. I really don't believe what I read. I do not believe what this government, this Minister, comes and asks for your consent and will have a great deal of interest, because I see that you are talking more about the municipalities, to answer exactly the substance of this matter. I shall listen to it, explain it and tell me why there is provision for an increase in prices by 10%, while we were only talking about a reduction in prices before. It will also be very interesting for today and for tomorrow and for the future, putting it silently. So that's over for the Health Ministry's amendment. When Mr Vernardakis brought the flagship bill for the Public Executives Register in February 2016, Law No.4369/2016 - so they called it, emblematic - which will regroup and change the entire public administration, it was argued that on the basis of this law, the tank of good civil servants with qualifications, all commanders and subordinates for legal persons with public and private law, for agencies, will now be selected for the public companies. Then, in the Minutes of the House - which I have and will be tabling, because I was a rapporteur on the New Democracy side - I told the Minister one thing. Mr Minister, we in addition to the general secretaries who have our own political position, in fact in these matters, of covering the positions of legal persons, do not disagree with the use of worthy civil servants and we shall vote in favour of the legislation on one condition: that it be implemented immediately. Those who have chosen as friends, as relatives, as party officials, after two to three months to replace them through the register of worthy civil servants. This was February 2016. Today we have March 2019. As of 1 January 2016, the Government of the Republic of Moldova has decided to extend the mandate of the Government of the Republic of Crimea to the Government of the Republic of Crimea. Not even a civil servant was deemed to be worthy of this government, so that he could be on the boards of these legal persons and an amendment, which came today, is being shifted to cover any vacant posts for the end of 2019, namely for another government. Such hypocrisy in one of your own laws, which allegedly provided for the colonization and "exploitation" of the human resources available to the public staff, I have never seen it! I have never seen a government vote alone for a law and three and a half years to defer its implementation and today actually cancel it. The twenty-five thousand with thirty-three thousand civil servants with a lot of qualifications, with postgraduate, with languages, with experience, with applications that have been submitted and which have been included in the register, should feel particularly bad today in the way the government treats them. One last, Minister - I take advantage of your presence - for Kilkis' hospital. I've asked a topical question about the lack of doctors at Kilkis' hospital. I hope that this will be discussed, because another one I have done for the commander of the Kilkis Hospital, who has been selected not by the Headquarters Register, but by the way of direct selection, whether because of a party status or of a relative - obviously, a party here - has not been answered after three postponements that you have requested. I want to believe, however, that you will see the issue of the lack of doctors at Kilkis hospital, which led to the suspension of regular surgery, which has never happened before. For ten days Kilkis' hospital had no regular surgery. With an adjunctive doctor, who has come now, the issue is not solved for the on-calls that are necessary, but also for the regular surgery to be covered. I would ask all these recruitments which are announced and announced, once and for all, to see them effectively implemented and implemented in the field of health, so that the vacancy can be filled. We're listening for health recruitment, and all hospitals have vacant posts. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the tolerance and the help you have given me, so that I can speak out of my line.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-eight students and students and two teachers from the 21st High School of Athens (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Panagiotaros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Let us hope that in Mr Polakis' announcements on the supply of some twenty CT scanners, one of them will be placed at the hospital of Arta or Preveza, whose CT scanner usually works, while at the hospital of Arta there is no magnetic tomographer at all, so that bad languages can finally stop saying that the two hospitals do not have these machines, in order to do gold jobs, Mrs Gerovasili's medical diagnostic centre and another one, which is in the area. Before we say a few things about this bill, we would like to refer to the persecution carried out yesterday by Mrs Durou, but also to the majority of the people who were actually booming at that famous meeting under Prime Minister Tsipras, as soon as this incredible fire in Matty, which burned more than a hundred people, was over. They were also barking and mocking the world at that famous press conference, which was held three days after Mr.Janakopoulou, where they told us with elements of the Greek Space Service and various other girls that there were many stools, that there was one, that there was the other, that the Firefighting and all responded in the best possible way. Finally, those who were there and had spoken, almost everyone, are referred to a large number of charges for the incredible crime committed in Matty. The "Greek Dawn for Attica", since regional and self-government elections are coming, will be watching - as they have been watching this whole time - very closely. We're not going to let anything fall down, save any of the main or other perpetrators of this drama in Matty. As we speak of this, we would like to express our sympathy to the comrades of anti-fascists, as these unpaid or unpaid employees of Soros, who gathered in the Old Faliro - my own - to cancel the scheduled event of the "Greek Dawn for Attica" with the presentation of our candidates. We will be sad once again and saddened even more by the night of the self-government elections in the Municipality of Athens, in Attica and elsewhere, with the results they come from. We would like to ask what is happening, and if at last a man resigns for reasons of emotionality, my heart, for the eyes of the world, for the tragic incident that occurred the day before yesterday in a hospital in Attica, where he was literally burned. The photos that saw the light of publicity were tragic. He had burned his bed together and he was helpless. And there was neither a fire extinguisher nor anyone to help him. We see that there is likely to be an ETA there, which will end up at the tartars, as most of them turn out to be. We see, unfortunately, these days, these weeks, an incredible one - how do we characterize it? - backwardness, an unethical cress from the whole, unfortunately, of the so-called introductory - 'constitutional arch' - on the occasion of yesterday's debate on demographics, on the occasion of today's and yesterday's debate in the Greek Parliament on an article, Article 91, which we shall be discussing just now. We have heard incredible things yesterday about demographics and by the Prime Minister, but also from the Chief of Officerial Response, where while our country collapses demographically - we have a genocide in time of peace - solutions are proposed, which are at least ridiculous, disgusting and unwilling. We have come to the conclusion that illegal immigrants must be integrated, especially in the last five years, which have invaded our country. Have you seen how good they were by the method of salivation, Greek and Greek women, who are watching us, those who are watching us? In 2015, when the five Hot-spots began, they had said they would become five in the Aegean islands until their cases were examined and they would either get asylum and leave or be returned and come back. And what has happened since 2015? We have one or two hundred Hot spots across Greece with a view to doing so. They're not leaving anymore, but they're staying here. Where will they find better conditions than another country in Europe? They can be here and have all kinds of facilities, such as aids, money, homes free of charge. And all this at the expense of the Greek citizens. They have free schools for their children, kindergartens, all Greek citizens struggling and continue to emigrate rapidly, in turn, abroad, and we say that for demographics we need to integrate them in order to simply make an act of how they are in our country, to see that we have a positive sign. This is happening within our country and New Democracy, which - for my part - moves the finger and says and opposes, basically puts back on all issues, starting from the third memorandum in the summer of 2015, that you gave them a white check to do what they want. That's what you said then, so any later excuse you have absolutely no value. Then came the fact of this national issue, which you also thought, Mr New Democracy, that the world had swallowed it, had forgotten, namely the issue of the name of Skopje. You have just seen that the vast majority of the Greeks have increased within a very short period of time, and you have also taken some positions other than your official line, which is the complex name. Inside you said: "Uph, SYRIZA has made us out of the difficult position." But you did not do what you had to do when it was the great battle of the debate within Parliament. You put your back in every possible way and joined with SYRIZA towards the Golden Dawn, which was trying, with the fifteen MPs he has, to do everything possible. And you, who could do a lot, did absolutely nothing. We see that in this bill we also have some amendments for the breaking of the municipalities. The position of the Golden Dawn has been stable and clear for years. We were opposed to all these changes that were made, whether they were the "KOLICHTRIA", the "KOLIKRATS". We are in favour of strengthening the countryside and with all these forms of governance in local government, that is not what it is, but it is not here. We shall now stand in Article 91 on which we have also asked for a roll-call vote. It is an article that you are showing your willingness to continue to exterminate young children in our country, because you do not take any substantial steps to prevent this 'gangrain', the drug scourge. On the contrary, all you want to do is to make it as easy as possible for those who, unfortunately, have flown to drugs, but also to all kinds of users. It is a draft law, in which Article 91 makes provision for the use of drugs within many introductory and parentheses. This introduction is a reminder if the legislative activity of the Government is taken into account using cannabis, separation from entertainment and various other stories. Here too, with the method of salamation, the whole issue of drugs is slowly being shredded, and soon, without the Greek society understands it, it will, in essence, be free everywhere, for everyone, with various justifications. As we have said, we are totally opposed to Article 91. It is planned - you say - to create surveillance sites for high-risk users, with a view - to slowly targeting! - the reduction of the prevalence of infectious diseases in the population of users and drug addicted population, prevention and timely intervention to deal with overdose and their preparation for inclusion in treatment programmes. That Article should be withdrawn. First of all, local societies, the scientific community, all of them. It recommends an unprecedented irrational project - an experiment on people, which recommends further degradation of urban life. It is also an anti-scientific, clippery and epidermal hemimeter, which naturally reflects SYRIZA's perception, as you say. We reject such semi-metres, which have a form of co-operation between the State and a strange trading factor, which has a tragic impact on the lives of the people of towns. The limits for prescribing opioid analgesics based on the current medical reality, new scientific data and expert recommendations are also adjusted, with the sole aim of alleviating tumor and other patients. We have placed in these intact, unscientific and dangerous positions many. We are thus leading to an increase in the degradation of the already degraded lives of residents and to encourage the movement of illegal substances with apathy guaranteed by the police. In these areas, drug dependence is established as a right and not as a derogation. The government, in close cooperation with the various non-governmental organisations, therefore, is practicing this abortion with which they can freely use injectables or non-containing substances. No solution is reached, but crime is being promoted indirectly and there is an outbreak within the urban fabric, where authorities will not be able to intervene. Likewise, it has failed in the past to install OECD methadone centers in neighborhoods of the city centre. The only spaces involved in the damage of the toxicotoxicated are the existing hospitals of Attica and not scattered spaces in the city. The struggle for rehab is being undermined and users are becoming blockers of their situation. These are the main axes of this bill with ideological significance and social importance, which are of particular importance. Because of this we are voting against this multilingual bill, which introduces a large number of provisions either for the purpose of publishing and prospering micro-political purposes, or for implementing the ideological fantasies of pink neo-communism - a symphony of multicultural Marxism. We will continue to give our struggle from the central political scene with the Golden Dawn, from the local government, where with the forthcoming elections to the Municipality of Athens and the Region we will fight to clean up our regions and help these people to get rid of them and not to have new victims. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because with your policies - and I am ending, Mr President - all you can do is constantly increase those who are dependent on the benefit of all kinds of drug dealers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Rizzos has the floor from SYRIZA. Until he goes to the Step, I would like to inform the House that the request for the Golden Dawn to vote on Rule 91 has been submitted to the Bureau. Here, Mr. Rizzo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we have a system of systemicisation, a modernization of the framework for the establishment and functioning of private clinics and, in particular, work relations are regulated. We have witnessed - especially in recent years - the 'black' of work, the closure of clinical, unpaid workers and an inappropriate operation of the private health sector. I think that with this bill we will have a series, a codification and a modernisation of all these problems. As far as the EKRD is concerned, a number of lines are finally in place, an internal regulation on the movement of its staff and a number of truffles are closed that have worked well for many years now. As far as public health is concerned, I do not think there is a person here and outside the House who does not think that the area of public health is worthy of attention and that the CEDEFOP has nothing else to give, that it is over and, therefore, we need to move on. What is going on in CEDEFOP, what has happened and who have responsibilities will be justice. As far as the issue of controlled areas of use of substances was concerned, things were heard here last night. And for us, however, it is the most essential thing, all these people, in order to be able to take the big step of rehab - the 'hot' program or some substitute - to stay first of all alive. And that's where we're aiming. And I don't think there is a colleague or a colleague in here, beyond and outside of ideological differences or dealing with this issue, who won't vote for these people staying alive, first of all. Last night we witnessed some unprecedented data from the House of Statement. It has come back with a great deal of tension about what we called the 'blackwalk' in the relationship between Parliament and our societies. A number of things have been heard again, particularly regarding the Two-Virtual Hospital and the Health Region of Evros. I think that after a number of years as president of the Hospital Doctors' Association of Thrace Health Centers we have some experience and knowledge of the area. The Dumot hospital, although connected and therefore did not drop a drop so many years from the donkey tail, in recent years and this year, and was overfunded, even though it was connected, and personally strengthened. Especially on the issue of artificial kidneys we have become here for the second time hearers of statements. Back then the point was that the kidney patients are going to Andrianoupolis, because we can't hospitalize them in Greece. He's been disproved. He's disgusting again today. There was a nephrologist, they became two, they became two shifts for nephropaths. There is, of course, also a remnant of nephropaths, which must be treated in proper and dignified conditions at his place. And that's what's gonna happen, like everything else. We heard nothing about the conversion of the Samothrace Health Center to "Type I Radio", which had the following paradox: Samothrace Regional Medical School to be "Type I Radio" and the Health Center not to be, for more than fifteen years. That's solved, too. And the issue is not only a fine that they take as the 'Type I Race', it is also the moral satisfaction of all the colleagues, all the staff, who serves both at the Regional Medicine and at the Samothraki Health Centre and, of course, in the local society. There are other issues. We also had an attack on my colleague George Caisa, the SYRIZA rapporteur. I just have one thing to say: to a man who has been in the medical service - not a profession - for over thirty years in our region, he deserves more respect. We must always count what we say here in this Chamber. We may be political opponents, but we are not enemies, and so we must go. I would like to close with a very small and specific issue concerning the fragmentation of municipalities. There is such a case in the Evros Prefecture. There was a separation of areas between the Municipality of Souflios and the Municipality of Alexandroupolis, the area between Tachyro, an old capodistrian municipality, and the Ferres, also old capodistrian municipality. Since 2013, this view has been recorded, documented, but unfortunately it has not been taken into account. I hope, and I also want to see the commitment of the Interior Ministry that through the Committee on the Reassessment of the Calliocratic Municipalities we will see what we will do with this municipality as well. He is a municipality of rural, clean, with prospects and as such we must see him. I also want to add that it is time to say things the way they are. SYRIZA wants the citizens active, to claim, propose and find solutions. He doesn't want them on the couch. So we must not say 'on my side' or 'on my sides'. These are issues of the government's will. For many years there has been no political will - quite the contrary - and the problems have not been solved. Now that problems have been solved, at least we have the political bravery and the openness to admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u102	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u103	I would like to make a comment on the situation in this House, but also on the rapid and rapid 'education' in which it has recently given us - as before, but now it has gone too far - two bills a day and another three or four in the committees! That's not what we imagined. And then you talk about regularity. That's what's going on. Of course, we understand that your commitments put you in the sports bill and that you are reducing the tax on distributed profits from 15% to 10%. All the shareholders of anonymous companies, shipowners, big businessmen, industrialists, etc. have become poor. They're in Omonia and they're begging! And that's why you can relieve them, at the same time that you're reducing duty. Now, I need to talk about the bill. It is true that this is a bill that, as our rapporteur has said, has all of it. It seems rather incoherent, but it's not like that. I agree with the Minister, Mr Xanthos, who told the committee that he was together. Yes, it's right what he said to slowly fill in an intervention puzzle. It is neither clipboard nor fragmentary, and it may seem that way. And here I would remind you that when New Democracy and the PASOK brought such bills during the previous compositions of the Parliament, this was SYRIZA's criticism because it has been avoiding - since it seemed where it is going - conflicting with the strategy. So they said every time, it's unconnected, clipboard, that it's not gonna be effective and so on. Now the roles have changed. New Democracy says so. Because it is precisely with the strategy, although it is voting against, and it is even more protesting because it was stolen from the job. It does not close, in our view, or heals open wounds because of the crisis and the austerity measures in the health system. This bill also implements and complements the puzzle of the general anti-grassroots policy which, in the form of hurricane, was concentrated with the memorials of the New Democracy and PASOK and the third Memorandum of SYRIZA, with the agreement of all other urban parties, a policy that served and serves the interests of capital and monopolistic groups in the crisis and now, in the same direction, serves the same interests and the temporary capitalist recovery. In addition to the other measures taken with the memoranda, such as a reduction in labour force, privatisation, and all others, in the social field, what does the strategy in general for monopolistic groups, the strategy that has come and been adopted by all the other parties, in the form of the memoranda? To take health and social costs. Three are the sides. Firstly, reducing and saving state resources to strengthen the private sector, the large capital it invests in this area, to find money and to repay debts created by the business groups, NATO, the Olympic Games from the lag, of course, the sweat and blood of the Greek people. Secondly, the opening of the path to capital investment in the health sector, which was a new area of profitability given that the public sector was also slowly sinking. It is no accident - and those who do not know it to say it - that the middle of the crisis large Greek banks proposed that investment in the health sector, of course in capital, for individuals. And that's how it happened. Investments have increased throughout this period in the private sector, of course paid by the Greek people. And thirdly, it is also the provision at the bottom - in the damaged, if you like - of sub-type health benefits, which the people of course pay through taxation. That is to say, the so-called social policy that may have been harder in the New Democracy, but in the same direction it is now, with the money of those who have little more. These "pilgrims" that are given are "a commemoration of foreign ribbons". I'll say it just like that. This is the social policy that the people live through every day, with the tragic situation many times in the health sector, where doctors with slashed wages, with superhuman efforts, truly heroic, are doing what they do. At the same time, the private sector enjoys huge profits. Where, really, to ask a question-- where do they get that money from? Firstly, anyone who wants to be cured and in a difficult position and who provides the private sector, here or outside, will also sell their home. There's also an example alive - Mr. Paulakis knows - that a man to be healed sold his own house. Like many other workers will sell their homes, they will do everything they can, they will borrow to go there when they cannot be covered. This is the one side. The second side: the insurance funds. In other words, the workers themselves again. When you can't do it in public, or when you're late or anything else, there's the private sector that goes there. Where is he getting paid from? From the insurance funds. What are the insurance funds? What's wrong with them? They have money you steal from the workers themselves. This is therefore the general direction. This strategy as a whole, with the three sides I have said, is also being served by the government, regardless of whether it dresses them on a left-wing or whether it is doing some positive or other interventions. He says he has strategic differences with the New Democracy. And because I see Mr. Fotella here too, he accused SYRIZA of a state-run obsession in the field of health. Okay, are you serious? Take a walk here at the Center, catch Queen Sofia, go to the people's neighborhoods, full of medical services! Private sector blooms, to God...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u104	For the past, I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u105	I say what you say and say it because he stole your job now, because he continues to serve these business interests on the same road and you fight guerrilla war on individual issues, because in strategically you cannot do it. So you don't even have strategic differences. There may be individual parties, as they exist in other parties. Now, is it so for this bill that it is part of this general strategy? We say that it is and I will say a few examples. Our rapporteur has said so in detail and has ten points. First, Articles 1 to 47 ‘Reforming the institutional framework of private clinics’. What framework is being created? I should like to say this as it says: '... to create a favourable and simplified investment environment'. I read about it. So is it a cannabis service to those who want to invest and are not workers in the field of these private clinics, yes or no? Does it directly serve these groups? Who's demanding to be quickly? And that is what it says: 'We had a loose end in the last evaluation, to modernise, to rationalise the framework for the licensing and operation of clinical trials'. That's the direction. That's what Mr. Blonde said. I read about what he said in committee. Is it a prerequisite, yes or no? It's a prerequisite. And who wants to enforce it? Beyond what personal points of view everyone can have, our great benefactors, the protectors of the working class, the people's income, that is, the European Union, that is to say, what it wants, and that is what it wants everywhere with the agreement of the parties which agree with it. And you know, people's health and profits are not compromised. We can't do it. How can we do it? Someone wins and people steal him. That's the reality. This infamous coexistence of the private sector and the state sector is a fraud, because the public sector is also working for the private sector to a large extent - beyond some I said earlier - because it is traded with profits, and indeed hugely, the private sector of human health. So whether or not Articles 1 to 47 serve all the capitalists who want to invest? Second, the establishment of a ‘National Organisation for Public Health, a legal person governed by public law’. This means nothing, because legal entities governed by public law, in accordance with the European Union directives and with the full acceptance of governments, and this, also operate on private economic criteria. It will not be the state budget, but it will, on the contrary, contribute to it. Where? Where will it be from, beyond the services he sells? From research, development or educational programmes. I will simply say: what is the overall line? It's not the investigations that's going to do. They're costing multinationals, big companies, pharmaceuticals, etc., even though they do. So what's the urban state doing? It puts the universities together to do studies, puts the National Public Health Agency here and is supposed to sell these services to the large multinationals, who of course are not charity to those who buy them. It's because they win more. Who pays for all this? The Greek people always pay. The same as the Institute of Neoplasms. Again in the same direction. I'm continuing with titles: Personal Electronic Folder. A positive measure is a general measure. The question is what it is about, that is, whether it is intended to improve the services provided or whether it is intended in general and is a more general line and a global line - we have said it on several occasions - to minimise benefits. The same with the prescription markers, the same as with the electronic recording of medical examinations. Such urban modernisation measures, let's say, are seen, but in the end they seem to be subject to the general objective, namely the strategy we have just said. Areas of supervised use, i.e. areas of supervised slow death, a shipwreck of young people. Everyone agrees except for the JRC. We have talked repeatedly about the drug phenomenon, and we never regret it. We will barely have the position of the JRC as strong as we can. Not all of the drugs! There are no 'hard' and 'bad's' there are no good and bad. Not all drugs, we're talking about it again so everyone who sees us fighting every day. It's a complex phenomenon, but it's socially dimensioned, not just medical. This is where two concepts conflict. What do we say and see who's progressive, who's modern and who's anachronistic? We say that progress is not life by doses, but life by youth. Do not seek to find anything in hallucinations on this road leading to death, but to look into the struggle to overthrow this barbarity and a system that bears this and has reached the height of the drugs issue. The metropolitan city of capitalism is the classic example, like the European Union, this humiliating young people who fall into drugs and death and who keep huge economic interests behind it. I'll say cynically. I don't care about the system. Better in the dope than in the front line of the race to overthrow the system. That's the reality. Progress is, then, to fight for life and not to live with doses. Today society may face this issue, but they do not care. I'll say it again. So what does modern and in this area say? That's necessary evil. There's what to do? Of course there is. We recognize that, too. Indirectly or directly, it goes on to legitimise that legalisation in other countries would also reduce drug dependence. The opposite happens. It is the way to increase and this has been demonstrated by studies by the World Health Organisation. What else does he say? It's individual responsibility. In fact, there is also the modern "theory" that everyone has a responsibility for his body and that you cannot impose it on him, that he is free to do what he wants. That's not freedom. This is slavery in a world that is literally a world. In fact, now we need to see a reduction in the damage. Let us see what is progressive, what the Communist Party of Greece says or what you all support? So what do we say? That today there are possibilities, that brave funding is needed, staff recruitment, etc., in order to turn and deal with the "dry" programmes that are effective up to 70%, even though there were other conditions, would reach too high. That's what we say. Is that progressive? Is that anachronistic, that is, gathering in places of slow death? It's for a lot of reasons. On the one hand, it is so that it does not "infect" the reality of business groups in the centre because of tourism and all the rest and on the other is, as you say, to ensure some hygiene conditions, etc. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] Why can't this be done by strengthening all the programmes with brave funding, cutting off from elsewhere - tax them with a special tax on these big people who have, who you don't put anything on and give them - so that there can be rehabilitation, aid and then social integration? What do you think? Besides, there is commercialisation of human suffering. NGO, private enterprises that trade human suffering, human deadlock. Why are these NGOs doing so, with a lot of money? For their pocket, they do not do it for humanitarian reasons, nor do they graciously make it profit. And private rehab centres will now also be developed which will do just that, trade, gain from this tragic situation. So, is that progressive? Or is what we say progressively, that is, the state, free of charge and with high-priced services, with recruitment, with funding to take this gigantic real and difficult task? You're telling us about international experience. First - the scientific studies are also on request. It was a high point where he denounced that we were financed by the multinational companies - and all the urban media - were buried on the issue of climate change, to exaggerate, so that they could pass on their own interests. And it's been a mess in the world. He was in charge of this world committee. What does international experience say? The Netherlands solved any problems? No, on the contrary, toxic dependence has increased. Switzerland shut it down because it had become an area of slow death. Switzerland, which is not a socialist country. Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We have this direction that serves specific interests and which, in the final analysis,...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Paphie, you have to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u107	I will close with that, Mr President. The problem is exacerbated, the situation is tragic, Mr Ministers. In the schools of thirteen, fourteen, and fifteen years of break breaks make a brick. You know that? I told Gabroglou, the Minister. Do you know them? Where do you live? Costas Arvanitis used to say that he's at the C.E.TH. You see children in Petroupoli and other people's neighborhoods that come with their eyes turn backwards. You don't have a sense of reality. You're locked in towers. Take a walk and see what's going on. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] At the same time - and here is the tragedy - lessons have been learned about cannabis good work. There was an intervention from the JCC and they were cancelled at the same time. You know they're selling tea on the stand? And not just in the kiosks...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Paphie, please help, close. We don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u109	So our differences are radical. Health is a social asset, public and free, the JRC says, not in business activity - you support the vulnerability of goods, it is in gambling - and we say that society has all the potential today, as long as the people, the people, the working classes, the working class to overthrow this capitalist barbarism, to create a world free from drugs and not a world free of drugs, a world that will provide high quality health, based on popular needs, a world that will take away the scientific potential of society, a world that is socialist and not the barbaric capitalist that you are serving.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u110	Well, now listen to what I'll tell you. If you want to leave for a normal time on Friday, otherwise you will leave Saturday - and I say this to know how the time goes - some parties have been informed, for example - the roll-call vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. at the beginning of the sitting. It will follow, if we have finished today's bill that will start as soon as what we are discussing now - I mean the sport - by Mr Stathakis. In order not to arrive on Friday afternoon with Mr. Stathakis' bill, we have to finish this bill until 15.00 p.m. and start immediately the Sports bill, if we finish it at about 12 p.m. and so we have only the event for the International Women's Day on Friday. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the next speaker, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after attending the meeting of the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, they were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and how they were organised and toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", forty-five students from the School of National Defence, headed by the Captain of the Faculty, Lieutenant General Dimitrio Labraki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are moving on with my colleague Mr Pratsol from SYRIZA. Immediately after the speech, Mr. Loverdos will be given as a parliamentary representative. Here, Mr Pratsol, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, usually in this House - and this is strange to me today - and above all from the standpoint of opposition, we are talking about political topicality. But I have not heard anything one day before the success, beyond every provision, of leaving our country on the markets at the best interest rate since 2005, at the time of fat cows. I could not point out here the embarrassment of both the New Democracy and the PASOK, of course, but also the formal denial, once again, of those who pointed out enthusiasm a month ago that we are in a fourth memorandum and cannot go out on the market, because the interest rate is at 4.5%. And that was their main argument. It is high time, friends of the New Democracy, to have a political account that will not be disproved the next day continuously. Ladies and gentlemen, without ignoring the importance of the proposed draft law on health and the important arrangements it contains for the functioning of private clinics, the replacement of CEDEFOP, the possibility of setting up and operating national registers, but also other important issues, I will be placed in the amendment of the Ministry of the Interior on municipal severance as a man with a long term term service in local government. From 'COLICARATE' to 'CLOSHEN': 'Luxembourg': 'Luxembourg 3352/10' proceeded, in some cases, to violent combinations, without taking into account the productive, cultural and historical basis of the municipalities concerned. That is why we have had many protests before the vote and failures since the vote. Most of all this was expressed in the islands that are indiscriminately populated, but also in particular in particular in the summer months, the idea of 'one island - one municipality', without taking into account other parameters, such as the multi-purpose service in particular. We also had serious problems in mountain municipalities, which often did not meet municipal councils, because it was simply in the winter months that communication between local communities was impossible. All of this, of course, does not mean that we should remain in the 1,025 municipalities designated by the "KOPOSTIRIA", many of which could not establish basic services for the service of their citizens, which is the main orientation of local government, such as technical services or economic services. Clearly we had to go to a smaller number of municipalities, strong and effective. The experience of "CALIKARATI", however, showed the need for corrective interventions at the level of the municipalities, showed the need to reconstruct the town's spatial planning with the aim of better functioning and greater efficiency for the benefit of the citizens. This, however, must be the result of a comprehensive study to show us the interventions that need to be made so that we have municipalities that are effective, municipalities that are leading the way for the productive reconstruction of the country and not municipalities - managers of a predetermined course, municipalities with substantial powers and democratic functioning with well-established institutions of popular participation. This is where the proposed amendment by the Administrative Division Review Committee of OTAs I and B, which, of course, must - or should I say - look at all OTAs I grades, and the three hundred and twenty-five that exist. And, of course, I would agree with what the Minister for the Interior said yesterday, about the priorities that need to be taken into account by which municipalities should be re-examined, because there are citizens' requests. I would like to remind you, however, that a few months ago we voted 'CLISTEN I', a flagrant reform - a post for democracy and participation in local government. The introduction of simple proportional, referendums and other interventions is - and will prove - oxygen for the space. This has so far been seen by the candidacies that exist in the municipalities, that it liberates forces, with the main feature of the participation of citizens in the electoral process. There, therefore, it was decided to follow "CLISTEN II", where we will see public policies again in conjunction with the constitutional review, with the aim of defining competences in each of the levels of administration of the State and of self-government, first and second degrees. As regards spatial planning, it would also be the subject of KLITHEN II, with priority for island and mountain municipalities, rather than selective decisions, which effectively circumvent the equal treatment of the combination criteria. I therefore consider it necessary to go ahead with respect in the area of local government and citizens, the study of the committee proposed, within constitutional frameworks, with a view to strong municipalities and strong local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u112	Mr Pratsol, thank you for having completed this year. I now read the next five colleagues who will take the floor. If anyone's not in the Chamber, he should be notified to come. It's Mr. Ballis, Mr. Pallis, Mrs. Stuboulis, Mr. Balafas and Mr. Sevastakis. In total, you are fourteen colleagues. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, I intended and intend to start my speech in the opposite direction to what the previous colleague mentioned. "I start my speech, pointing out that it is a very positive fact that we come out on the market in interesting terms. So I didn't understand you. This is an undeniable reality. Anyone who does not want to see it will be blinded." One could tell you now - but you've been scratching on the cup of hoppan - how long before that had to have been done and what your presence here entails for so many years and especially the six-month Tsipras - Varoufakis. But that's not why I came here. The draft law concerns health. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are all saying - since my colleague gives us the opportunity - that in order to address the problems caused by our primary surplus obligation, we need shocking growth. The shocking growth rates do not go hand in hand with the policies that have been suspended, for instance in Piraeus, where the CAS met to proclaim the entire city archaeological site. He needs attention to all this, not provocations. Because that has the element of the provocative, which I don't know who does it and against who turns it. Yesterday we, as a Democratic Integration and the Communist Party, raised a very strong point of order, not a process. We have enough experience to override the procedural details. We have put it because the ministerial amendments tabled in breach of the Constitution, in breach of the decisions of the Conference of Presidents, after the process has begun, continue to be a rule. We have said that we are making this very urgent - in addition to the problem posed by Members of Parliament - the need for them to be informed quickly and seriously, apart from avoiding the preparation of the standing committee - because there are issues of relations between the government and Parliament. And the House has its independence - no matter how we do - which the ministers are violating. And we're not in a phase of memorial tombs, someone's putting a gun on our head. We are faced with a legislative initiative by a ministry with seventeen months of legislative initiative and therefore had all the time to prepare for it. I didn't come here in a legalist mood. I've come in a real mood. The Minister objected, taking the floor, to the treatments that have already happened. But that doesn't appear. Nor does it appear for the amendments which came before the debate in plenary, as your own Member has pointed out. I shall mention three examples. One of the amendments tabled after we had started, concerns the re-split of hospitals that we had combined administratively. When we joined them, we had protests from clergymen, from lawyers - listen, listen! - from commercial associations, because we supposedly wanted to close the hospitals. We assured that this will does not exist. Who's to listen to us, though, then? And it was a successful experiment, an administrative union, which would be rid of the many boards of administration and also help with supplies. I left after that. Other ministers have been involved for many years. And you now come in 2019, after 2018, to break these down, clearly ahead of elections. In any case, because a colleague from these regions could have a point of view, should we not have heard this in the permanent committee working on the draft law? I had to! So there is no sense in delay as it does not involve studies, committees and general accounting. It's simple. If you were willing, you should have done so, incorporated into the draft law, or even the relevant amendment would come to the committee to process it. You avoided it. Yesterday's price debate was held here - as I read - collusional. Ladies and gentlemen, this has come last minute. This has also been the case - as the Minister says - for processing the relevant subcommittee. I'll take it. And I was also informed by Mr Barriotta. I'll take that. But there is one fundamental argument, which I express with my own words and experience in the National Representation. When I received a medical expense unsatisfactory and had to commemorate it in collaboration with all sides of Parliament in the Standing Committee on Social Affairs, with then SYRIZA present - there was a colleague from Crete, Mr Kritsotakis - we were trying to find solutions. It was Ms. Xinoyanakopoulou, Ms. Katseli and I. The solution found after long discussions was to go to price settings based on the three lowest in the European Union, so that they are also countries with cheap prices. And that prevailed, that was implemented. I'm not a technician to tell you how. However, the fact that companies were not fighting with each other on the basis of a price set - that for me for two years I was there - was an indicator, if someone favoured, would call out the other - was the criterion that we went ahead with. And you come now and say '... not of the European Union...' - we had the three lowest of the EU - 'two of the euro area'. When we passed this measure, the European Federation of Industrys came and listen to a proposal it made to me: 'Take it back and as long as the Greek State loses it, we will pay it because it affects us in the other countries'. That was their argument. And, of course, I have been struggling with the argument and the proposal. She was impracticable, but also a suspect. Now you're doing this. And I say: you're doing it because you're protecting - I heard what you said - the Greek State from clawback. From this chair, in this Chamber, when I introduced clawback, I said that it must be temporary, because it is market intervention, administrative, outside. It's not right. But because they are unforgivable those who prescribe unpaidly, they were at that time - in 2012 - a measure. That is how the Members of the European Parliament voted. What did the Left say? What did opposition say then? What was I listening to? When I mentioned it in my conversation with the pharmaceuticals, they were thrown up. They considered it a coup and hit me properly. You extended it as a government of SYRIZA and ANEL, you took it to Greek, I learned that you did it almost everywhere. And now you say: "But let me do the lowest in the Eurozone. What do I care? Since the State has its limit on the clawback’. That's right. But there are two counter-protects. The clawback is an intervention of administrative nature on the market and as long as you get out of the memorials you must be afraid that someone will appeal against you and win you. Because what is in fact? It's to intervene since I can't help but as much as I've done the e-prescription - I've made it - the other one's prescribing. And as much as I pass him disciplinaryly, he says, "I prescribe expensive medicines, because my patients are cancer patients..." - for example - "so I have to do this" or "I have a lot of patients." That argument has passed, take it and I'm afraid of it for the future. So, you're doing a setup, you're leaving in a few months, and someone else might get to her. Here you have a problem and you need to explain it to us how you answer it. And, secondly, it's not just the public he's paying for. Private people pay too. They're part of it. I didn't even raise the participation by one minute. The others raised it. Participation is affected. Why are you indifferent to it? And, in any case, what is the explanation? Why the simplest measure, understandable, that no one can tell you and nothing, you change it and you put something we can tell you? And we talk healthy, we don't talk like you do. We have a political dialogue. We tell you, 'What do you have to say here?' I read what you said, but basically your argument is based on the fact that you have the clawback. And I'm telling you this is an unstable argument. Finally, we shall go to the amendment on local selfgovernment. I'm from Lixori. One municipality in Kefalonia was suicidal. He couldn't get out. Whoever knows the island will say that. I do not, like some other SYRIZA colleagues, get carried away from localism because I love Argostoli. But this island can't have a municipality. The mountainous tumors make the logic of one municipality unacceptable. And, of course, other colleagues from elsewhere have similar problems. Did he have to come by amendment, Mr. Haritsi? Why wouldn't he have been here before six, seven, eight months? Now you're on it? A month ago you took over and had to bring it in an amendment? Because it's something that's inside the seeds right. Of course, your Member - I do not want to mention her name, because perhaps she does not want me to say it herself, to provoke internal relations - says: 'Catch, do you now? What about the projects that are being developed? The notices? What's going to happen there? Aren't we going to have a vacation? Won't we be late?" I respect that. That is why it was necessary to go through the suffering of processing. However, I cannot deny the correctness of the problem solution where geography creates these problems. Minister, I was very concerned about the tragic phenomenon in the streets of Athens being subjected to human beings sleeping on the streets and living on the streets. The problem was in proportion to where we had OKANA, as in Piraeus. Whoever goes to Piraeus, goes to Trumba and goes to the bars and restaurants, goes because some of us put our backs on and carried the substitutes to the hospitals. Piraeus has cleaned up. And where property and human lives were lost, it is a clean area and very developed Piraeus area. But, with a CDC service, these people who had all the diseases you can imagine after staying on the streets of a year, we gathered them, we healed them - I don't know, I'm not a doctor - or, in any case, we created them more human beings. Now, the bad thing is. I don't have the faces. I erased them wherever they exist. And I'll testify for the record these photographs of shame. Athens is full. Mr President, I would like to wait for the Minister to come.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u114	I'll give you one, two minutes, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I want her here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u116	I'm ticking the time. Please, let one of the two Ministers come in and I'll give you two more minutes, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u117	So I'm presenting the specific photographs for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the Minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As we deal with this issue, we have to deal with it, Mr President. This isn't a city image. It's full of the center. Somebody has to say that. It's also the work of a minister, a mayor, a district chief. That's not a situation. It was necessary, ladies and gentlemen, for a special car to be formed by the EKAB to...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Loverdo, you can say what you want in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u119	So I say you have to do something. We had used a special car of ERICON, which we equipped. There was a problem with the wounded because they didn't want to touch them. They were people with too many diseases. In any case, with an appropriate method - I am not a doctor to tell you which - we gathered them. You can do that, too, because the image of Athens is sad. As I speak of CEDEFOP, I would like, Minister, to give you a numerical dimension. When I took over, I realized that it wasn't just the crisis to have dead, many, unjustly, the Nile virus and the flu, the so-called H1N1. It would be a heavy burden on the backs, human weight, political weight, whatever you want. The meetings that took place in the presence of journalists - I did not hold any meetings with bodies without journalists being in, for good reasons - I was given a series of bureaucratic problems for sprays. I can't do that. I can't do this anymore. I can't do this anymore. With the cross in the mouth, literally, with threats, the sprays were made, because if you press, the other one is always pressed. We had thirty-five dead in 2010 from the Nile virus, nine dead in 2011, eighteen dead in 2012. The dead were forty-seven in 2018. About the flu: We had a hundred and eighty dead in the winter 2010-2011. I took over in September 2010, where we had fifty-six dead and the next year forty-nine dead. Now we're close to the hundred dead. It makes sense to update, Minister. Don't provoke her. Information makes sense and needs sacrifices and economics. There is no information, but no information at all at night. The information comes as the world sees the media. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I do not have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u120	Continue for one more minute, but please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u121	On Article 21, which has been heard and spoken in some way honestly. Article 21 repeats the previous regulation of 2001. The word 'North' is changed and the 'drugs' become 'euro'. There is case-law and the 2001 provision is there. Don't say a lot of words about something that exists. The impression has been made that we are changing things with Article 21. Article 21 is an anagrammatic one. So don't say you'd go after, that you'd do one, the other, etc. And it has proved, if you like, that the regions now, the county old, cannot apply it. So you had to see the subject differently and finally think - that would be a big offer - the seventh year of age for ERC doctors, as would the seventh year of age for university teachers. I tried, tried both. The masters said no to education, Mr. Manda. Now they say 'yes'. The DHS doctors are leaving, but recruitment isn't the same. Look at it. And the last one for the TOMY. We told you that you were abolishing the generalization of prescribing that we had done, to make some kind of medical practice of IKA again. You disgusted it. Your Members applauded here. Two years after the TOMYs have had implementation problems, and that is why you have had to keep the generalized prescriptions in force. And that's what you need to see again. Back to IKA's medical services is not the right choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u122	Good. But close it, Mr. Loverdo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u123	And the last one, and I'm closing with it. Mr Barriots raised you yesterday on a point relating to Articles 96 and 97 and to tobacco products. You've answered him sharply. I was here and I heard you. It's not like that. When you assimilated everything to cigarettes and electronic cigarettes, we voted 'white'. Who convinced us? Not me, but Mr. Kremastin telling us that six million people smokers quit smoking through electronic cigarettes. Europe leaves you free. Now the European Union is launching a consultation. What do you mind keeping it for three months, if it's true what Mr Barriot said - I cannot confirm - that a consultation has started in this context, to be the kind of person of this habit, smoking, immorality, anything in his own specifications...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Loverdo, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u125	I think that he has proposed something very right and that you should follow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u126	Mr Simeon Ballis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely would like to deal with a number of issues and to deal with a lot of them today, primarily in the important legislation of the Ministry of Health, which creates a new framework for the functioning and treatment of important issues in the areas of health and care, as I would like to mention in detail, on the occasion of the important anniversary of the Killerer uprising of 6 March, of the rebellion of farmers in their struggle and of the claim for the self-evidentness of the minimum conditions of human life. Despite the importance of such matters, I will, however, catch the thread from where the previous honourable Member left it, not a parliamentary representative - I mean Mr Pratsol - and just a few months after the vote on 'CLITHEN', the law on the reform of the administrative framework, but mainly two months ago, only three months before the self-government elections and the implementation of this new law, the new framework, in practice, we are considering an amendment which has something to do with the amendment to 'KLITHEN'. I am referring, of course, to the amendment on the fragmentation of the municipalities. It is undeniable that KALIKARATIS, with the scope of the combinations of institutions that he has imposed, without account being taken of most of the time the specific problems have caused considerable negative situations. In some cases there have emerged institutions large, without even internal communication, with wide responsibilities, new responsibilities, no necessary staff and resources. And that is why there have been objections from several municipalities from the first time and too many local communities, as there have been many requests for a review of the spatial planning of new self-government agencies, of course, which continue until now. Why did this happen? Why these problems? It explains in the rapporteur's report, the law that we voted on self-government and you will allow me several times to refer to "CLISTEN" and to what was said. It says, therefore, that “KALICRATIS”'s implied participation in the self-government decentralisation project of living local communities, social and productive forces, and extended the distrust and isolation of settlements, communities or even former municipalities and counties, which were called cells of the new powerful self-government organizations.” And a little later, the report adds that "KALIKRATIS" undermined the sense of citizens' proximity to local government. An intrinsic element of this institution, and as a streak of it, it boosted centrifugal tendencies. These are existing problems that have to date, problems that need to be solved, they need to be dealt with. But I wonder: can they now be resolved three months before the municipal elections and even fragmented? And, above all, can they be resolved with a simple amendment that only deals with the spatial planning of certain OTAs? The Committee referred to in Article 5 of the Treaty. 4368/2016 - the committee recalled that it had drawn up the comprehensive findings for the reform of self-government and this conclusion was based on the "KLISTHENI I", in its conclusion it noted that the Ministry's direction was not to re-examine the planning structure of the OTAs. At the same meeting, the same committee, referring to the dozens of issues for spatial planning change, recorded that many associated requests from OTAs - and I quote here from the conclusion - which are the vast majority of OTAs, the demands for the revival of existing municipalities and communities that have been abolished by KALIKARAT, are mainly cultural, historical and sometimes local. But how do these existing problems and these pressures respond? The committee takes note of the way in which the answers are answered: by promoting a uniform local and regional awareness, by removing intra-regional disparities, by strengthening and upgrading the essential role of the institutions of intra-democratic decentralisation, by strengthening the municipalities and especially those facing greater problems of efficient operation with resources and staff. One of the questions and pressures is then dealt with by the correct application of the 'CLISTENS'. I say, therefore, that we should give the necessary time to work on the implementation of what is envisaged by 'CLISTENS'. Let us give the necessary time to set up and work by the committee proposed with this amendment, which will prepare the demands, the problems, which will make specific the needs and interventions for spatial change necessary to see them in practice. To conclude, Mr President, I should like to say that this committee is working - and here again I am copying the report by 'CLISTHENH' - with the knowledge and awareness that every reform effort is developing on the ground of the particular institutional reality, which requires institutional memory, an assessment of the degree of maturity and weaknesses of previous reforms, knowledge of the resources available and resources, constitutional specifications - I stress it again - with knowledge of the administrative tools and with a view to ensuring the institutional continuity and the consciousness of the present economic, political and social context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u128	My colleague has the floor from SYRIZA Mr. George Pallis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to ask the Minister for Health, and I must ask the Minister for Health for understanding, because at this particular juncture, by tabling the amendment of the Ministry of the Interior, I have the opportunity to argue in favour of another excellent bill which gives solutions to health problems, which we will have more live people among us with the application of several of the provisions, which enables island hospitals, small hospitals, to work better, which is still being separated from the Lemnos Hospital by the 'Bostranese Hospital' of Mytilini - another distortion of 'Kalikrati' and health at that time - and which is being sorted out as well as issues of my industry, the pharmaceutical industry, with the consent of the industry. And I don't understand the crowns of the opposition. However, I shall speak about the amendment from the Ministry of the Interior. I will speak in particular about the division of the municipality of Lesvos, since my colleagues from the other areas where there are municipalities that are moving through segregation have been placed or will be placed. The break-up of the cultural municipality of Lesvos was a chronic thorn for our island. The model "one municipality per island" failed in Lesvos, an island of 1,600 square kilometres and ninety thousand inhabitants, with difficult morphology with the city's seat at one end of the island and with a population of thirty-five thousand. With KALIKRATI, the inhabitants of western Lesvos were removed even further from mainland Greece and at the same time removed from the self-government institution itself. So today's amendment significantly restores the municipality-public relationship. The vision of the government of SYRIZA for local government that began to take shape with "KLITHENI I" stumbles in the municipality of Lesvos. Yes, we want municipalities economically viable, but we also want municipalities near the citizens. And thus, bearing in mind the necessary service capacity and economic soundness of the new municipalities, the morphology of the island - it consists of two bays and two mountainous tumors - the accessibility to the administrative centers of Mytilini and Kalloni and respect for the boundary of the thirteen capodist municipalities, we ended up breaking into two. Two municipalities open and participatory, two areas of political expression and action. I will not go into the process to talk about numbers and comparisons with other regions. All I'm going to say is it's not just the numbers of people, it's people's lives, it's the peculiarities of every place, and if anything else the northern Aegean is not the Ionian. But we have problems to deal with. I was convinced by my colleagues in the other regions. It is a success of the government that this amendment is coming at this time because it could not come sooner. They deserve congratulations both to Minister Haritsis and his staff, but also to officials who, in a systematic work, bring an integrated amendment which, in a methodology, determines how the procedure will be done. It is a success that the New Democracy and the PASOK together failed to do so because they did not have the basic criterion of being able to go ahead in the past few years. I would remind the municipalities of the substantial amounts that have been made available for their outstanding debts. I would remind you of the brave funding, the special development on our islands, the 'Philodimo I' and the 'Philodimo II' which makes this effort possible. The concerns of my colleague Mr Ballis, the previous speaker, are also our common concerns. We don't do anything voter. We're doing this on the basis of the substance. It is true, therefore, that of the two municipalities that are confusing for Lesvos, the municipality of Western Lesvos is almost zero. The transition period will be difficult. However, I think that the new Western Lesvos municipality will be able to demonstrate operational readiness in time. We have all the guarantees to achieve this, and we will succeed. In the West Lesvos, we have a gifted place that can be the subject of a comprehensive development plan. We have rich renewable energy sources, a powerful primary sector, a growing secondary, monuments of natural heritage such as the fossil forest of Sigrio, hot spot tourists and plenty of space for milder forms of alternative tourism, and we have a government that effectively supports islands. The government of SYRIZA has invested in the balanced development of the island. We have the new port of Sigrio that had endured on your day and is completed with the public investment programme. We will have direct access to the mainland, which will be connected with a new road network with the completion of the Kalloni-Syri road and the integration of the Agia Paraskevi road. The bypass of the city of Mytilini gives access to the west Lesvos directly from the airport bypassing the city and upgrading the quality of life and the city of Mytilini. We have an institutional framework for the use of renewable energy sources, which makes the municipality a key player. We have national and European resources, and this government has financed our islands as much as any other government in the post-political sense. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment supplements 'CLEARED I'. The aim is to collect the maximum benefit from the self-government reform with a new self-government organization on the island, with two municipalities, elected by the municipal councils with a simple proportional and Community councils with financial resources and essential responsibilities, which the communities of Lesvos have fought for eight years now, municipal authorities elected to find convergences, to represent and unite society, in order to guide a better tomorrow, which she will determine to a large extent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u130	Close up, Mr. Palley.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u131	I'm closing, Mr. President. The issue for our country is the important opportunities to make use of and move forward. Two municipalities in Lesvos, two powerful municipalities, two municipalities that will take the island forward after many years of inertia of the earlier governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u132	But there were also inaccuracies made by Mr. Palley about Lesvos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u133	Before calling on the next speaker in the House, I have the honour to inform the House that a request for a roll-call vote has been tabled, in accordance with Rule 72(1) of the Rules of Procedure, by twenty-seven Members of the New Democracy, and others. Phoenix Jasona, Javara Konstantinos, Tsiara Konstantinos, Georgiadis Spyridonas - Adonnis, Tasula Konstantinos, Arabatzi Fotini, Karasmani Georgios Konstantinos, Georgios Georgios, Davakis Athanasios, Giouleka Konstantinos, Anastasiadis Savvas, Kella Christos, Kalafatis Stavros, Stamatis Dimitrios, Athanasios Charalamos, Kavada Athanasios, Karamanli Anna, Kedikoglou Simeon, Yoyakas Vassiliou, Katsanotis Andreas, Stylios Georgios, Katsias Georgios, Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, M. Anastassis, Anastassis, Vassis Vassilisilisiosiosiosia, Vasilisilisilisiosilisilisilios, Vasilisilisilisilisilis (Akonikisilis and V. 96/1973 (A'172), which was lodged on 5-3-2019 in the draft law of the Ministry of Health 'Modernisation and Reform of the Institutional Framework for Private Clinics, Establishment of a National Public Health Agency, Establishment of a National Institute of Neoplasms and other provisions'. The names will be read and tomorrow morning at 10.00 a.m. when the vote is taken, in accordance with Rule 91. I will give the floor for a minute to the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Blonde, to present legislative improvements. Minister, you don't have to analyse them. Typically only testify to proceed with the process. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Some legislative improvements are made. The most important thing is that the amendment on the evaluation and pricing of medicinal products, where there is a provision specifically relating to generic products which will be reduced, does not mean that this reduction in the first stage of application of the law, so that we do not have a dumping price, which creates a problem both for domestic production and for the circulation in the Greek generic market. That's the welfare we have. Such requests were made yesterday by colleagues and also by the operators of the domestic pharmaceutical industry. Thank you. I'm tabling them in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u135	I would ask you to photocopy the technical improvements immediately and share with colleagues. Minister, this improvement has to do with the amendment on which the New Democracy has requested a roll-call vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u137	It has therefore been tabled in the Minutes and will be carefully seen by colleagues. Before I summon Mrs Stuboulis to Vima, I would like to remind you that I was President of the CEDEFOP, when the CEDEFOP unanimously decided - I stress it - of all the fact that we had said 'no' to Mr Ragosi for the municipalities - monsters on the large islands and wrote to us not to say that. Mrs Stuboulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today's bill, which is coming to solve serious health problems, has been adequately analysed by previous speakers and speakers. Of course, there is always room for comments. I shall therefore refer to amendments as a matter of priority. Five colleagues, of whom four doctors sign the amendment with a general number 1991 and a special number 151 on the subject of 'Application of a level playing field' in the past few years'. Minister, with this amendment you are calling on to restore an unreserved injustice which has happened in the past with ministerial decisions granting discharge for a rural service. I have in mind the last of them, in 2014, which relieves doctors who are registered in the First Year of Medical Schools of National and Foreign Up to the academic year 2000-2001. This decision fails by mistake, I imagine, doctors who are excellent graduates of TEIs with related subjects (medical, obstetrics, physiotherapy), were enrolled in accordance with legislation in the second year, but also in the third year. In other words, not only students and students who went through medicine with pan-Hellenics in 2000-2001, but also students and students who made any registration anywhere abroad in the year 2000-2001 and either graduated from there any time until 2014, or obtained a transfer to Greek university in the second year, as foreseen, whenever after 2001 and then graduated, have been free from the obligation to serve a countryside and have not been exempted from the obligation to study in tertiary education and then were students of students enrolled with pan-Hellenic exams in the first year 2000-2001. A distinction between students depending on how they enter the school has never been observed, Minister, nor in the Medical School that you and I have studied, nor in others where the numerous doctors in this Chamber have studied, let alone a distinction after receiving the degree. The unfair treatment of these colleagues, who were registered in the second and third years in 2000-2001 and 2002-2003 respectively, is evident under the conditions laid down by the law and which are currently excluded from the numerously proclaimed RSH posts as having not fulfilled their countryside service, while other colleagues, as we said, have just made an entry into foreign universities by the year 2000-2001, because they have been exempt from this obligation. It is not the time, I think, to discuss the correctness or, if you like, the ethics of the rural discharge decisions by 2014. Rightly or not, fairly or not, these decisions have already been implemented for some. If the Ministry - rightly so, I will not disagree - decided not to follow the same practice from 2015 onwards, it must restore the injustice committed against these categories of our colleagues and, in time, as long as the RS and the relevant crises are moving forward, to enable them to be judged fairly and on equal terms with their former students. Because the restoration of injustice is self-evident in our own system, even if it relates to five, twenty-five or fifty people. For good governance is not only measured by the number of citizens involved in its decisions, but mainly by respecting the principles of equality between citizens and their equal treatment. As far as the amendment of the Ministry of Interior is concerned, I will not disagree with the need to divide large island municipalities, but I would like to call on the Ministry - and I am sorry that Mr Haritsis is not here - the issue of similar requests concerning the municipalities of the mainland and there is such a request in the Regional Unit of Serres and I would ask the Minister to make a commitment to opening up a sober debate, to which will be appreciated in each case and the decisions which will be more and more widely accepted. I'd like to make two comments about the bill. With regard to the abolition of the sinful CEDEFOP, I can only express the bitter satisfaction of those who remember the role played by this institution, among others, through specific doctors, of course, in the case of seropositive women in violation of all medical ethics. Of course, this will not bring back to life women who did not endure imperialization as a "bomb on the foundations of the Greek family". Do we remember who said that? That's what someone called them, something we shouldn't forget. The new National Public Health Agency, I am sure, will also have another perception of ethical issues of this kind. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With regard to Rule 91 - and I shall end, Mr President - I would like to give an answer to the voices of any person who is being cut off from the prospect of decommissioning the drug addicted because of the operation of surveillance sites. Colleagues who are professionally aware of the field could explain in detail how sensitive, fragile - I would say - or even impracticable for others can be the decision to rehab, let alone, its achievement. What no one needs to be a professional in the field to understand is what Mr Rizzos said before and the President of the OKANA at the hearing. I have to repeat it myself: "To be able to think about rehab, it must remain alive or alive, not to fall victim to overdosing or any fatal infection. Moreover, to give him the opportunity to develop a relationship of trust with a person leading to a treatment program." That is the aim of these areas, and that is why Article 91 must be voted in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u139	At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I will inform you that we will proceed with the procedure. Then Mr. Balafas and Mr. Sevastakis will speak. Mr Mandas has been asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative. In order to stop the continuation of SYRIZA - it is not your fault, so is the list - Mr Kegeroglu will speak before Mr Manda, who was patient yesterday and could not come. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Madas, Mr. Anastasiades, Mrs. Triantafyllou, Mr. Ursouzidis, etc. will speak. Here, Mr Balafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my time, I will only refer to the question of adding an amendment to the Ministry of the Interior which resets the administrative boundaries of certain municipalities. L.3852/2010 I can accept that he had the best of intentions, to make the municipalities out of a thousand in three hundred twenty-five and to create municipalities viable that can take objects and carry on important issues etc. Probably, in most cases it worked positive. However, there were cases - there are very characteristic cases where this partition is proposed - where the law, the change made, the combination which has been made, has not succeeded. That's for sure. There have been major failures. We had problems serving, meeting needs, communication, functionality. In addition, because we have direct knowledge of some of these areas, we have also had phenomena of fleeing and abandoning. For of course sustainable - and so associations - but there is another decisive element beyond everything else, which presupposes self-government. That's the element of proximity. It is a decisive element when you talk about self-government to exist and take into account the proximity element, which I think is particularly important when we are discussing it as a rule. It makes sense that certain administrative limits should be set for discussion and redefinition - it is true - and that the limit values should be set. Maybe someone's been saying they're coming last minute. I'd like to accept that, too. There was an attempt of years to make these things happen. I understand, too, that there should be more divisions. This broad study of the addition is needed, so the law to be passed through a committee for the review of the administrative division of local authorities I degree. So we move on to the four islands, two Ionian islands, two Aegean islands and the division of Velventos from the Municipality of Serbia. In the time I have a special report to make on the Ionian islands. The two islands, Kefalonia and Corfu, I know them very well. I have been born in Lixouri, I have lived in Corfu for five years. You know the civil servants were being transferred and going from here and there. I want to say the following. On these islands I am referring to there is a terrible problem of accessibility to the services of the capital, being the islands of a single municipality. It's forbidden sometimes. And therefore, as a result, we have a veering particularly in the area of Luxury following the catastrophic 2004 earthquake. The negative effects of this unification of the Municipality of Kefalonia were very great. There are development opportunities that are not exploited. As I said before, there is no communication. Kefalonia, especially since the hostage years, was called the "tetrapolis". It was four centers around - around. Communication from land didn't exist. There was a mountain of six hundred and twenty feet in the middle. The relief of the territory alone should not have led to the integration of an island of this municipality, beyond the historical, cultural elements, of this intense feeling referred to in the explanatory statement of "involvement", of identity which was blown up in this particular case in the air. So we had a dissolution of a historic municipality, Lixouri, to become a single municipality on the island with another capital city. So, as Mr. Loverdos says, and well, Andreas Loverdos - they don't happen. The same, mutatis mutandis, is Lefkimi, in the south of Corfu with the country, with the city. Anyone who has lived and knows a little what is happening should have avoided that. I'm done. Of course, one could say instead of two municipalities becoming three, instead of three, to become four or vice versa. It could be like this or a little different. I'd also have to make an observation. I have such concerns, too. However, let us go ahead with what is a positive measure, even in the specific number proposed by the addition - an amendment from the Ministry of the Interior and see further with the committee provided for in the amendment, the addition, the changes that can be made in the course of the process, and in other cases, the fragmentation, so that things can be better. Finally, I would like to emphasise a supra-party and cross-party consensus and support that exists, which I welcome. I referred earlier to Andreas Loverdos, the local organizations of other parties, the Officerial Representation, these issues and the islands to which I referred, the regional councils, the local committee of KINAL and so on. This is a positive sample and I wish we had more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u141	Mr Sevastakis was courteously granted his position to Mr Anastasiades by mutual transfer. He'll talk later to Mr. Anastasiades, because the latter has to catch up with the plane. So Mr. Anastasiades has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President, and thank my dear fellow Member for his kindness. I have basically taken the floor, ladies and gentlemen, to refer to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Interior on the fragmentation of municipalities, because the issues of the bill and the issue of health were analysed in detail by our rapporteur and, of course, the position of our party is well known. After all, it is well known that we have tabled a roll-call vote for tomorrow, which also concerns our disagreement on certain issues. I want to say that it is a fact and is well known - we are all aware - that the administrative division of the country that took place with KALIKORAT created huge problems in certain regions and in certain municipalities, because there were societies that could not communicate and could not create social fabric so that they could form a single administrative department and function according to what was envisaged by KALIKARATIS. Of course, these issues - and I shall refer to my region, because everyone is better aware of their place and their region - we have put them in the debate on the 'Kalikarati' law in 2010, if I remember correctly, Mr Ragosi, but, as you quite rightly said, Mr President, he did not listen to anyone. I am referring mainly to the mountainous volume of Thessaloniki, my region, the 2nd Thessaloniki, where there was a spatial division, which devastated some areas at first because the combinations were too large and there is no communication, there is no good access, there is great diffusion of settlements and there is no functionality and service of residents. I am referring above all to the mountainous Municipality of Soho, whose geographical characteristics, economic characteristics, population characteristics, development characteristics cannot be identified and matched with the other co-ordinated municipalities. I personally raised the same issue in the debate on 'CLISTEN' in 2018, if I remember correctly. At that time, Mr Skourletis as Minister of the Interior said - he made a commitment - that in September 2018 the spatial planning for all of Greece would be discussed. And of course, such a debate would be interesting. I do not understand this fragment - if you would like - partition in five municipalities of the country - four islands and one continental municipality - without that it is not necessary. But why didn't we go to other municipalities? Or why didn't we see it all? Why should there not be an overall approach to this issue, so that the particular Municipality of Soho, I am referring to, should become an independent municipality? For this municipality, there were commitments to become an independent municipality - I mentioned this in the debate of 'KLITHEN' - by Members of the ruling party, by Mr Marda, who referred yesterday to his speech, but also by Mr Famelos. Why didn't he come and even though Minister Haritsis said yesterday that he was one of the first municipalities to be examined when the whole thing came? Why has it not come, since this is mature and is recognized by both the government actors, but also by the MPs and is the desire of society? Or why didn't we see the whole thing? I believe that the amendment in the way it was put forward may create more problems. It does not serve the objectives that society wants, since they want too many municipalities in the country to break down, because experience of the operation of "KALIKRATI" has shown that it was not successful with regard to spatial criteria. Why didn't the whole thing come? And why, after having come apart, for a municipality in which there has been a consistent request since 2010 - and we, too, agree and agree with the government MPs, and society agrees - did not come to resolve this problem too? Because this mountain municipality with its characteristics and economic data and population characteristics, I think it will be able to develop better and better serve its inhabitants. I wanted to make this point and thank you again, Mr President, for allowing me to say my views.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Sevastaki, not me. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor, and then Mr. Mandas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, the government has now been revealed. It operates with purposes and two different speeds. The first, the 'fast track', first of all, concerns the wishes of the powerful, who the Government is implementing, even without safeguarding the national interest, such as the Ambassadors' agreement. It concerns regulation, legislation, party planning, and, of course, issues that bring them forward in elections such as the way in which they were arranged, and which did not matter for four years. All institutional issues, development and economic recovery policies, as well as social cohesion policies, are part of the second step. It is characteristic that Mrs Gennamas' proposal to address the demographic problem from April 2017 came yesterday to a debate in the House, but the proposal for a law that we have tabled since 2018 has not come yet. I also note that the debate on the proposal for a law of the Change Movement, on the economic recovery, the declining of overtaxation, the creation of new jobs, the conversion of half-employment into full-time work, the support of young unemployed scientists for activity and labour integration here in Greece, with their many qualifications. We insist with the plan for Greece for the country's tomorrow. You, the government, insist on the designs of the "Stenagmon Bridge" with the past. We with the citizens and creative forces for the country's development, the progress of society and prosperity on solid foundations. You, with the politicians, the right-wing, the perpetrators and the bourgeoisie, are to be held in power, as you think. And since the reason for roaming, let me say yesterday that a reporter of Maximo's pay roll said to "Action" that I was allegedly involved in Mrs Katseli's event. Let me make it clear to you, gentlemen, once again from the Step of the House, that neither I nor the Movement of Change participate in the Centre for the Left of Carnival, with carnivals Mr. Tsipras and his company, Ms. Papakostas, Mr. Antonaros, Mr. Kouik, Ms. Koduras, the "Tsohajaraios" of all forms, "Kotsakadas", "Moraidis" and the other gyllologists. And on the occasion of the amendment to break up the municipalities to 'price' one of these geologists. I was very interested to expect Mr. Ragosi's placement. But in vain. He did not express an opinion on the change, such as his spatial planning 'Kalikrati', in five municipalities, without criteria, without institutional function, which is confirmed by the regulation that comes with the amendment to set up a committee to examine the other eighty-sixteen cases. Mr Raguss, who, as Minister of State, insisted not to be municipalities, for example, Alikarnassos, Ruva, Zaros, Tymbaki, etc., now as a symmetrical strologist, what does he say? Again set up communication games, like the one he played with Kastelli, who while deciding what to do, he put it in consultation! And you, Mr. Michelogannakis, said to leave you in the unprecedented due to special circumstances and relationships, but you're "reliable" and puppy thinking that you sent a message to the four municipal units of Heraklion that while you want municipalities to become, the others, the parties of SYRIZA don't leave you. But, in Gergery, you all didn't drink the rags together and you promised the municipality? Now, Yannis, neither you nor Mr. Tsipras can make fun of anyone. If it is different, do not vote on the bill and not on the amendment you said, because after all, the amendment includes fair arrangements for Corfu, Kefalonia, Samos, Velvet and could be three more municipalities on the big island of Lesvos. So instead of communicating, mocking the Greek people, don't vote for the bill. The amendment to change the method of invoicing medicinal products is another case of legislation on the basis of a mandate, and indeed of a service of interests outside. The 'delivery boys' with it fully serves these interests. Greece is a reference country. It affects international prices and the amendment leads to an increase. The bill concerns a total of arrangements for private clinics, but instead of rules and institutional shielding, artifacts are being drafted in order to make hostages. But Mr. Barriots analyzed them. I shall refer to a subject that saw the light of publicity for a public hospital. Infrastructural in surgery at Attica Hospital is granted to private doctors in order to engage illegally with black apparently wages, and this should be the subject of the U.S., the Minister himself who must intervene and examine. Because it looks like the DEO, the hospital administration and other managers are making a fool if they're not in the middle of it. I'm filing the post. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned publication, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have the workers who have denounced this black process in a public hospital. Finally, the amendment tabled by the EBRD, which we shall vote on, does not include anything essential. The workers have informed us that there is no provision for the extra moleculosis criterion for the transfer of the rescuers, the crew of the ambulances, who are actually working in ambulances and rescue rather than in offices. The self-evident thing is not included. Change it, Minister, and incorporate the regulations that workers are asking for. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that the agenda for the development and social justice of the sustainable social state shapes the Change Movement in our country. And with it we are calling for a strong mandate to change things from the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u145	Just now, to hurt my friend Vassilis Kegeroglou a little, I remind him that after manias the PASOK voted for the Ragosi Act, when all of the CEDEFOP, including Koukulopoulos and Apostolus Sleep, we were saying what you're saying now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u146	The debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u147	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Evidently, Mr Ragus had the obvious idea and put in an article, according to 'one law and one article', all the regions of the country, and this did not give the possibility of differentiating in cases that he really should. So now, after the evaluation of the 'Kalikaratis', which in practice seemed to change, here we are, and SYRIZA has to be placed in total. We will be positive in the amendment. But be careful, we won't cover the government if we don't vote in total. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u149	Now I gave the floor for another reason. I think you know about Mr. Ragosi. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u150	After you solved your issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u151	My political opinion, so as not to get me wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u152	I think we are reaching the end of a debate of a great, in my opinion, bill, which will soon become the law of the state and this debate is certainly not empty. I will say only two critical things in the last few days, one general and one more specific one. The general is obviously the exit to the markets after 2006, almost twelve years after 2006, with the abolition once again of the series of arguments and the forecasts of Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy about a huge failure, but, ultimately, of the forecasts, because this is what this is all about. No one can, but no one can say anymore, that the country does not have access to the markets, after being upgraded by the rating houses. And this is a crucial element in the future and in the investment and economic recovery of the country. And a second element again these days is the announcement by the two ministries, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, the ten thousand recruitments of permanent doctors and permanent health professionals in hospitals the next four and a half years with two and a half thousand recruitments in this year. These are fundamental interventions, which show exactly what we have and we do not hide it at all. Because it is quite clear that this fact, SYRIZA, has a firm orientation in an enlarged public quality social health system. He understands the role of private health through ways like the one he does in regulating an anarchist landscape - this is admitted by everyone - in the matter of private clinics. On private clinics, I think we will all agree that a number of transparent criteria are finally in place, without putting on adventure those who have already obtained legal permissions, but by putting in a framework too - very specific, which I think will help this part that is complementary, in our opinion, to the public health system to operate in terms of normality. I think that the necessary change has been made in what we have had a debate on who has a right or rather on the exclusions of those who cannot establish private clinics. In the legislative improvements, whoever has noticed it, there is a change in Article 3, which has been debated very much, so that these defects are well identified by a reference to a law and a paragraph 8 of Law 3528/2007, so that the framework for this arrangement is very specific. Now, there are other important things in this bill and I would like to stress them before I come to some point of order, for which there has been a debate, of course, on the final issue of the medicine to which I shall refer. The National Agency for Public Health is being set up, a body which, as you can see, is crucial and essential, firstly, it has a holistic policy on public health and secondly, it has the necessary flexibility in Article 54 so that when there is an urgent need - because this reform, if you like, is being blamed for this, that it is stiff, that it is one, the other, etc. - to intervene immediately, when necessary and when urgently necessary, within a period of one day or three days, such as taking some materials, taking some interventions, etc. That's what this is about. So this possibility is being given, and I think that the necessary institutional shield is being carried out in a field, which all indications show that it was a pilot corruption programme in the previous period, which went to take a generalised form over the past few years. That's what this is about. The second is - I say some of them - the self-sufficiency of the hospitals, which has been a great deal of talk and I think this provision is very positive. As well as very important are the provisions on the EAFRD. Clear the scenery, stop the clientele logic, enter rules. This is very important. Something that I think is innovative, but it will also be very effective, are the mobile units in primary health. Especially in difficult areas such as ours, the continent, but also in other areas - I see my fellow Members here - mountainous, semi-trailing regions, it will be possible for the mobile primary care unit to reach where it needs to be able to provide its services within the framework of primary health. Because I hear things from the left that, in any case, all we do is put the carpet on private interests, which are developing at an appalling speed, Members have not understood that there is a huge conflict here - on the pact and not on the words - of the political expansion of public space in health by reforming primary health care. They haven't taken it at all. They have not understood anything at all, because we are talking about conflict and we are talking about real data and doing it. I also think that the issues of the ERCF and medical education are now being regulated in a significantly new way in an agreement with all companies, with new programmes and with the training of skilled people - I note - the crucial issue of the medical potential in it and in the next phase, in which we must put all our powers and all our thoughts in order to be able to deal with it effectively. There really is a glorious field here to work together, to see what these important elements are, the policies that we need to develop, I would say, all the aspects of this Parliament, of course, with the exception of the nazi structure, so that we can deal with this issue, because it will be the big problem of the new era. Of course, I think that the changes made to both the structure of the ERC and to medical education are extremely important. I will say two words - because there has been a debate on this - about HICPs and EEAS, to clarify a few things. First of all, IRIKI is public, it's an ECJ of the Greek State. It has supported health and social security for forty years. It serves ten million citizens, sixty thousand doctors, ten thousand five hundred pharmacists, fourteen of the largest hospitals in the country, manages the National Electronic Recipe System with seventy-five million recipes and twenty-five million referral citizens a year and is responsible for the implementation of the NSA. Ideal's got her. It is said that another system manages other data, etc. Perhaps this is a confusion, because in my opinion what EEAY is doing is the EEA's insurance file. That's it. It's not the patient's electronic file. I think that in the way it manages and in any case is clear, and at this stage, it is absolutely certain that there is no question of transfer, management, use of personal data for patients in other purposes and in other persuasive circumstances. Let this be quite clear. Second of the specific issues is this for supervised sites. I would like to put forward a few thoughts on this for a minute, because I cannot hear some tragic things that are said, unfortunately, on the part of the Communist Party of Greece, because when you have to do with dependence, if you allow me, colleagues, and with the experience I have, it is never white - black. You need to use all the ways, so that's how. I am saying here that such centres are being built now both in Ireland and in Lisbon and in other countries and you must never say that I have found the magic way or that this is the only way to solve the problem. Apparently not. However, for patients who are very heavy, very marginalised, who are really at risk of their lives, this can give a chance and contact the user with services of special and special people who have experience of how they can first ensure that they are more healthy, as far as possible within these frameworks, but also, secondly, lead - because this is the ultimate objective - to rehab. There are such studies that substantiate this thing. Again, it's not a manna, it's not something that solves the problem with monoconon, but it's another structure that we can build and we need to build, especially in the large urban centers, Athens and Thessaloniki, to help these very heavyly marginalised people. This whole debate has started since the AIDS epidemic. Since then, when you have been able to provide even the sterile syringes, you're doing something. You don't close your eyes, you don't put your head in the sand. Something I always say about rehab. And that's what we have to fight for. Finally, about the medicine. Because we have reached the point where the New Democracy is voting for this amendment, I will simply say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that I think that Adonis Georgiadis totally framed you. He's framed you. One of the prisoners. Second, will you tell me exactly where you're hiding your pharmaceutical policy? Because I am reading and rereading the New Democracy health programme and I do not find a word about it. Will you tell us how you specifically place on it, instead of saying a number of things, if I may, of failures to do so? Because that's what this is about. Irrelevant people say a number of things, silly after all, that we're giving gifts here and there and beyond. Tell me, how much does it affect 10% of the gradual growth as a reference country, the rest of the countries? Doesn't that affect 10% reduction? And when these two sizes, i.e. the codes concerning the drugs that will be increased and the medicines that will be reduced, are about 40% -40% and 40% of them making us 80%, because a 20%, about 20%, remains stable - tell me exactly where the gifts are? Also, tell me why you are systematically ignoring all the other efforts that have been made - and I imagine it will be analysed more by the Minister - and by consultation and negotiation with other countries about the price of the medicine, about all the institutional things that have been done on the medicine. Why are you ignoring them? Did you ever do it? Did you even make one elementary intervention in a completely distorted system? Because the claw back is, as it is. This, however, is the result of a very long story where you arrived - you know when - the drug expense in the heavenly. You dare criticise SYRIZA for a completely balanced intervention, which has been discussed by the Ministry since October, all of you agree, and you are going to do your best, because it is a bubble of what you are doing. I'm so sorry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates twenty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the Liapadon University of Corfu and from the 9th Municipal School of Corfu. The House welcomes them. Welcome to the House from the nice Corfu. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Dimitris Sevastakis has the floor, who patiently waited for his turn. Then there is Mrs Triantafyllou, Mr. Ursouzidis, Mr. Mumulides Themistoclis and Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras. Here, Mr Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I am afraid that I will be vindicating the multi-faceted bill of the Ministry of Health today and perhaps I will not be able to underline what, with my public views, I have pointed out. There is a difficult process of rescheduling the public health system with very significant improvements, substantial interventions, changing the map and in relation to the pre-crisis period. Ant work is carried out on targeted interventions, such as military doctors, with the stipulative motives on the locations in the barren regions, with the specialties, but unfortunately, with the slow times of the specialization reopenings, if the selected ones are not accepted, etc. However, I would like to stick to the amendment from the Ministry of the Interior. KALIKRATS has accepted strong criticism, critical approaches to all phases of its implementation, such as 2000, 2011 and later 2013, by all political forces. Today, it is not reasonable to go backwards, to dismantle the 'Kalikarat' reform in full. The "Kalikratis" was horizontal and that was the weak point. Especially in the island area did not provide functional results everywhere. In my personal opinion, we should not today make the mistake of a horizontal rectification, correction of the 'CALICRATES', which had horizontal characteristics. We will reproduce weaknesses, that is. We need to make mature point interventions - what appears to be a flaw in the amendment, I consider it a benefit - to return to self-government normality. We must say that self-government is going through a long transition phase. First of all, the border between the regional and local dimensions of self-government is confusing, very often competitive. There are malfunctions. So while we have global financial support from the government either with the public investment programme or with the special development plan at least in the Aegean region and with the much easier flow of the ESDP programmes, they are not properly assimilated by the self-government structures. So we must find technical and administrative tools to get through to the LAGs, pass to the regions and put together the two degrees of self-government much better. I will not use the term "spring" of the municipalities, because it has never been made a composition of the municipalities. There's been a welding. And I think that restoration, especially for Samos, will also raise the development side and the side of cultural, social and productive justice and balance. Samos has two equivalent zones that have urban centres about equivalent to different production features and different characteristics of social and cultural structure. On the one hand it is tourism, services and university, rural economy on the other. It's very right and very close to the character of the place to crown them. That's why the administrative organization in a municipality of Western and Eastern Samos is in the right direction. I would like to say that I hope perfectly well that it creates a productive, developmental stronghold for self-government rationalisation. I believe that absolutely. In Samos, on the islands an additional element is the huge burden, the enormous pressure exerted by the refugee crisis. The refugee crisis is based not only on the flow of vast numbers that the closed social and administrative biosystems on the islands cannot withstand, they cannot control them, they cannot assimilate them, but they are also based on something else. It's based on infraction. There is a transnational, I would say transnational, violating very difficult to correct by a factor, from an administrative intention of the Greek political system. Unfortunately, refugee is a multifaceted problem. It is related to transnational relations and essentially to violations of agreements and declarations and demonstrations. At the moment, at least the island of Samos is under an incredible pressure. This showed, revealed further and very large self-government weaknesses. I think, therefore, that sharing, division will help very much to deal with and find administrative resources. It is certain that new municipalities will be built, and with the provision of the bill, to proceed with the examination of many claims that have now been reasonable and based on the fact that "Kalikratis" has raised his problems. I think it will give a self-government map not with the pillows and the multitude possibly of the pre-Kappostrias period nor with the numbers of the "Kappostrias". I think that the new map will be reasonable, it will be haunted to production, culture, history, social dialogue, and I think that allows us to be much more optimistic. I am very pleased with the contribution of many speakers with ideas and I will be very curious to see the work of the committee that is setting up and proposing the draft law on self-government reform, which I think is going to evolve and so we have to see it, that is to say, as a start rather than as an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u155	My colleague has the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Triantafyllou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about another important draft legislation on health issues, on health issues. I think we should start with the big picture. The big picture tells us that we are indeed finally moving towards a phase of reorganisation of structures with staff. Of course, I will say that we are still behind needs, but it is important that, for the first time, mass recruitment and an organised plan will be carried out. I would like to say that we are actually reaching a moment when we can say that we are finally overcoming the phase of the disorganisation of the ESS and today we would say that we are giving up a health system which is more functional and, above all, accessible to everyone. So that's the big picture. I think the bet on raising the National Health System is fundamental and lasting for our country. It is understandable that official evidence advocates this. It is understandable, as I said, that the health system is balanced. Of course we must now respond to what social state we want and what health system we want. Do we want a social state that will produce deficits, mismanagement and debt, as has happened for so many years with the health sector? Obviously not. I think there are responses from this government, as there are, unfortunately, practical answers from all the previous governments. The black money that has been moved to health over the past decade - and there are specific political responsibilities for this - reaches unthinkable rates. We are talking about almost EUR 85 billion. The scandals probably outweigh ingenuity even the assumptions of the armaments programmes or the one of the ‘SIEMENS’. I think it's in great detail an analysis of the bill. I would like to say this: firstly, I consider it very important that the draft law sets out a number of issues. Of course, I consider it emblematic that - and it is also the great contribution of the bill - the abolition of this multitude of organism, which has unfortunately become synonymous with corruption and the fragmentation of public money, and I am talking about the ERIC. As stated in the draft law, the institutional framework currently governing the functioning of the CEDEFOP is incomplete and has no cohesion. It is therefore necessary to replace it by the National Agency for Public Health, a modern organisation with extended powers for the protection of public health, namely disease prevention, increasing life expectancy and promoting health through organised efforts by the state and society. It is a key and symbolic effort and aims to highlight good practices in the field of health and the effort that has been taking place for four years. I don't want to blame any of the provisions of the bill. It is very important that a National Centre for Neoplasms is set up to form a national strategy for cancer, which is one of the main causes of death in our country and a major issue, as it is a national and global health problem. Thus, the training of this body is more than necessary. The need for information and disease prevention, as well as responsible, holistic and patient-centered treatment through the formulation of a national strategy, is essential. This new body, therefore, will undertake to formulate and recommend to the Minister for Health of the National Strategy for Cancer and coordinate actions relating to the overall national management of neoplastic diseases. There are also a number of issues which, as I said before, have been described and analysed by colleagues with sufficient competence. I would like to focus a little on the amendment in relation to the disconnection of hospitals. Here I think we should catch the thread from where it started, i.e. from Law 4052/2012. In fact, a moment ago, Mr. Loverdos, if I remember correctly, said that 'all right, what was this arrangement for anyway? He had nothing wrong and now SYRIZA comes and actually insists on most connections and disconnects very few hospitals." Look, we had said something at the time that was completely true and appeared from the results. Several Members of Parliament are from the province and we are well aware of the deficits and malfunctions created by the interconnection of hospitals. It was an administrative trick - and we will insist on it. Actually, some hospitals would stop there. For example, I am from the Prefecture of Iotakarnania and there are two Hospitals, in Mesolonghi and in Agrini, we saw what was happening in the field of health in those years, in the years of governance by New Democracy and PASOK, in recent years, in the mesologic years, when the Messology Hospital was actually threatened with being abolished. Here I must say that there are other demands for disconnection, such as for the specific hospitals in my law. However, I think it is right and the Ministry's proposal, precisely because, as we are gradually trying to resolve issues that were in place in health and are too many and very important, so we have to say that there should also be an assessment of the disconnections. I would say that for the Prefecture of Aetolokarnania, the largest county in the country that has such a difficult geographical relief and very great needs, the two hospitals should exist, the two hospitals should be disconnected, and I must say that in a second period there will be an assessment of the demands and a move, in my view, where necessary. It has nothing to do with the previous government's policy on SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u157	Please, Mrs. Triantafel, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. The government of SYRIZA covers needs and has a design for public and free health, as well as for public and free education, which are basic public goods. In this perspective, therefore, where there were the greatest malfunctions, we have gone ahead with the solution to these problems and will gradually be completed with the other issues that have been raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u159	The next speaker is my colleague from SYRIZA, George Ursouzidis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I think we are discussing a very important bill. The great debt, the sacred debt one assumes, when a government is succeeding, and the country is in a state of bankruptcy and absolute - I would say - poverty and impoverishment is to protect public health at all costs, to offer full health coverage to the citizens. That is what common sense defines the country's interest, this attempts to take into account the draft legislation, this ensures the forthcoming revision of the Greek Constitution, by amending paragraph 3 and by adding paragraph 7 to Article 21. Article 21(3), therefore, states: ‘The State guarantees the right to health and is obliged to provide all universal access to effective health services through the National Health System’. And because things have been heard, I have here the Greek Constitution which, prior to the review provided for in Article 21(3): "The state cares for the health of its citizens and takes special measures to protect the youth, old age, disability and the care of the most deprived." No relationship with each other. They also failed to say that paragraph 7 was added to the same article, which states: 'Basic social goods such as water, electricity and their distribution networks are subject to public service regimes and are public control'. They also have a direct relationship with how health issues and, in particular, mental health in our country are evolving. The coverage of uninsured citizens is provided for in Article 104. L.4368/2016 establishes for the first time the right to free access to all public health structures. Law 4486/2017 provides family doctors who contribute with the EEAY the right to prescribe uninsured and vulnerable social groups. The most fundamental change introduced by the new institutional framework is the equalisation of the right of insured and uninsured and former holders of an individual booklet that is economically weak in terms of access to the public health system. This means really complete nursing, diagnostic and pharmaceutical coverage for all citizens, now in line with the Constitution under review, as I mentioned earlier. What we've taken on is known. I would remind you that we have found EUR 28,000,000 of the debts you charged to uninsured citizens. We erased them. In addition, EUR 150,000 000 have been frozen, so that they will not be assured in the WEU. That was the situation of 2015. Today no insurer is charged with hospitals and they are about two million fellow citizens. I must also remind you that EEA expenditure on uninsured medicines in 2014 was only EUR 600,000 per month. In 2018, the corresponding expenditure was 20,000 000 per month. This means accessing weak citizens to the health system. Part I of the draft law, therefore, regulates the framework for the authorisation of the operation of clinical trials, consolidates in a legislature all the provisions that are currently scattered and modernises the operating framework of clinical trials. In Part II, it provides for the establishment of the legal person governed by public law under the name ‘National Organisation for Public Health’ and the abolition of the sinful ERIC under Article 62. The new body shall have the form of a legal person responsible for defending and promoting health. The legislative intervention attempted for the first time concerns the regulation, establishment and operation of reference centres, central laboratory and regional public health laboratories, in order to achieve laboratory surveillance of diseases, epidemiological recording and timely monitoring of the effects of diseases, which is very important, prevention and permanent information measures for the population and the proper management of resources by monitoring and assessing the health of the population. All the above to become a reality, it is necessary to establish an individual electronic health record. It is a service that has been missing from the country and is being established for the first time. It has nothing to do with the EPPY's insurance file. It contains information only on the costs of each patient, i.e. that the patient did the same examination at that cost. The absolutely necessary health monitoring regulation for the population is a friendly, safe and necessary tool for both the user and the public health system. But most of all, this is about transparency. The establishment of the National Institute of Neoplasms. Cancer disease is one of the main causes of death in our country. It's a disease that we all know how much the patient is suffering, its family, but - badly lies - the way Golgotha is lonely. The state's debt, therefore, and self-evident duty, is to create a strategy for the absolutely imperative need for information and disease prevention. This defines the state's responsible attitude toward citizens. Clearly, therefore, the need to establish the vehicle that will undertake the development of the national strategy for Cancer, which coordinates actions for the management of neoplasmic diseases, with a view to preventing, diagnosing and treatment. I'm sure we've all experienced very difficult situations either by friends or relatives. All of this is now institutionalised by the forthcoming constitutional review, so that no one can ever think again of questioning the self-evident, unless the memorable and intertwined in the governance of the country. All this is happening in times of bad economic crisis, when the previous ones closed down the hospitals after the other, or were reaping them in order to be sold out on "the other side", of course in return. A characteristic example is Henry Dunn. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to vote on a bill that needs to be adopted before all of it comes to the Greek citizen. Leave the clever ones against the prespecies' deal in exchange. You are unfair to the battle of the Greek people, who, with great effort and with good governance, has managed to institutionalise things that are absolutely in need of them today. So I urge you today to vote on the bill leaving this account to the improper and undeniably inadequate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u161	My colleague, Mr Themistollis Mumulides, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on a key bill from the Ministry of Health is slowly being concluded, a bill which attempts to bring about a comprehensive rationalisation and modernisation of various important areas of the health system in our country and in the social state. This is another big step by the Ministry of Health, which shows the way of major reforms in times of crisis in the neuro-algic for health society. The government is moving towards the completion of its legislative work, trying to lead the country to an irreversible clearing. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, because, for the Regional Unity of Kozani today, we could say that it is a day of division, since there are two amendments concerning two very important issues, I should like to dwell on this. It is the first amendment concerning the reintroduction of the self-sufficiency of the two hospitals in Kozani, the Matsea Hospital in Kozani and Bodosacei in Ptolemais. In this way, the two hospital units are given the opportunity to develop on an equal footing and on an autonomous basis and to provide their services. A further reason for this reintroduction is the fact that in a few days' time the Ministry of Education has legislated to create a health school with three departments in Ptolemais. So we realise that it is a self-evident development to link the three university departments together with the creation of university clinics at Bodosaceo Hospital. This is a catalytic development for the economy of a damaged area, a region that has been associated over the last sixty years with the monoculture of PPC. This enables the region of Jordan to make use of this advantage of the three schools. I am going to go to the second amendment concerning the separation of the Municipality of Serbia and Velvetou. It is a problem that seeks its solution since 2010, that is another injustice of the 'KALIKARAT' that caused serious problems in the body of self-government. In some cases these problems can only be overcome by dynamic political choices. I understand, of course, that it is the beginning of a dialogue for other regions, but we should know that not all the cases are the same. We must accept the pilot nature of the divisions in this amendment, we must look at each case not horizontally, but at the specific characteristics of each case. That is what the Minister for the Interior said in his speech yesterday, and Alexis Haritsis. In the argument of some people that the amendment on the separation of municipalities comes for election reasons, there is a self-evident answer for those we can and think here, that the political cost may be greater than the political benefit, and that might be the case, since the areas that claim to separate municipalities are more than the five separate regions. Here I want to focus on the decisive contribution of Minister of Interior Alexis Haritsis to this development. We must thank him publicly, not only for our region, but for the brave political choice to move on with the separation of municipalities, a timely problem, a problem that must be dealt with in the next two years definitively. Alexis Haritsis with the bill, with this amendment, is attempting the first step towards restoring a hurricane of injustice not only for Velvet but also for other regions. It is a clear case of politicians defying political costs. To connect the country with a better future, important attitudes and political choices must be changed. It is well known that in the country of democracy, in the country that gave birth to culture, previous governments were applying a political politico kart over time. Different paradoxes appear in public life. We see the Civic Opposition to disagree with various bills, such as a bill by the Ministry of Education and finally to vote for it, to agree in substance over time with the Prespecies Agreement and finally to vote against it, to dissociate and anticipate pension cuts and by crushing to vote for the non-cutting and now we observe that the question of the separation of the Municipality of Serbia - Velvetou disagrees with the prefecture of the New Democracy in the Regional Unit of Kozani is radically disagreeing with the evolution, with the segregation, and the MP of the New Democracy, as well as with the strangeness of all the states in the New Democracy. We from the time we were still opposition to this day have stood firm in our choices to separate the Municipality of Serbia - Belgrade. We have committed ourselves to supporting the fair fight of the residents of a society with its own historical and envious features, a society that has developed in an exemplary way the cooperative movement and which operates in many areas as a model in a modern way, a modern democratic society, which has unparalleledly demanded the vindication of its request. We have tried with all our powers to vindicate the request and we are proud of this development, for the fact that the Velvetou Municipality will be a new, independent municipality in a few hours' time. At the same time, we believe it is our duty to support all the fair struggles of societies, both today and tomorrow and always tomorrow. The country needs areas, it needs reforms in favour of society, it needs bold policies that come from the future. As a government, we want to be judged by the sum of our political choices, by the whole of our work, and not by fragments and communication-type methodical policies of frustration that have been unstoppable for four years. The separation of municipalities introduced by this amendment is another step towards resolving injustices, yet another step to give a real reason for society, another step towards a courageous policy based on social and national interests alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u163	Thank you. Mr Constantine Tsiaras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that many expected with interest the Ministry of Health's legislative initiative mainly because expectations had been cultivated through a rhetoric, obviously different viewpoint, perhaps the discovery of scandals, which came from the past and which had not even announced the abolition of the CCT. We were mainly listening to the Deputy Minister of Health telling us the CDC is ending, closing, there won't be any from now on. Instead, there is a legislative initiative which simply changes the name and, of course, differentiates the organisation in relation to certain issues which were in its own right and in some way creates the specific needs, so that action can be taken and that the work of the CEDEFOP can be done. All this, however, actually comes to be dealt with in a more general context, which not only creates disappointment to those who expected a bill with bazaars and branches from the Ministry of Health, but also shows that we have a bill that is drowned through its own contradictions, through the inability to formulate a policy, through the rain of amendments, which once again monopolize the interest of the Greek Parliament, but above all through a practice which, to a very large extent, ladies and gentlemen of the Com munity, creates a huge issue of misrepresentation. Tell me, indeed, in a bill that raises all the issues on one side to the other - literally on the one hand - which regulates issues which, to a very large extent, show that it is not the real need for the Minister of Health to deal with problems at the moment, but rather to do micro-services, the well-known rumours on the other and, above all, to deal with a reality not with the logic of resolving issues, but with the resolution of issues that have arisen from a bad period of time, how is it not for you to come today to legislate about a bill that has almost a hundred articles, which have received dozens of amendments, having in fact abolished the Rules of Procedure itself? Normally for such a bill, Mr Minister, it is also the point to you, Mr President, that the debate on the articles should be another one. In fact, we are not talking about a bill which has suddenly come under the pressure of 'immemorandum' - in introductory terms, since you do not like to say so - commitments from the country in order to complete on a specific date. It's a bill that we've been waiting for tens of months to come. So, at the last minute, we are talking about issues which each one of them could be the subject of a bill. I am saying all this, ladies and gentlemen, because at some point, if you have to look at the irresponsibility - and I am sorry to use the term of one of the previous colleagues in the Stepma - it will be enough to look at yourself in the mirror and see what was said in a previous period, when very small issues have been raised today and there has been a more general contradiction on the part of the particular party you are in and what exactly you are doing today. I'll stay on two main issues. Amendment to the medicine. Are you aware of what you will be voting on, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple? You know what the Prime Minister said about two years ago? He said that the "NOVARTIS" scandal is based on the fact that Greece is a reference country for the price of medicines for about fifty five countries. Today, then, you come to make a huge gift to the multinational companies, in fact give them the opportunity to increase prices in almost all the countries for the medicines they have. I will not tell you whether this is true or wrong, but I will tell you that at some point all that you supported in the past and that was the main reason why you built the narrative of the NOVARTIS fiasco, it seems to me that it is currently being restored by you by this amendment. Your right, just to know what you are voting for and what you are supporting, because every time coming here and doing the honor, moving the finger from the Step forward of the Greek Parliament and saying that this is the scandal, when the next moment comes to legislate in exactly the same way, if it is not hypocrisy, at least I think it is a huge issue to him as to how he sees and how he feels his personal dignity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u165	And for you it's a ignorance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u166	You're welcome. Go ahead, Mr. Chiara.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u167	Amendment to "supporting" the municipalities. I have accepted that there are indeed issues in local societies. I imagine that there is no colleague in the Greek Parliament who, in one way or another, has not accepted a request from a part of the local society, to which he refers, for allegedly unjust fragmentation of the municipalities in the past or for possible other municipalities to be created. However, here, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of issues which need to be taken seriously. Is it possible for this fragmentation, division, to take place three months before the election? Is this a serious approach of the Greek state? And really, what are the criteria? Can one of you tell me why a municipality of those who are currently divided into three and another in two and others are not separated and others are older, but have not been treated in the same way? Of course there is the island of Greece. Of course there is Greece of the mountain tumor, which must be dealt with at quite different criteria than in any other case. All of this is accepted. But how serious is a state that legislates a little while before the elections, without specific criteria, without taking into account that in order to create fair conditions for the demands of different local communities, from other parts of Greece, there must be a criterion and a specific reason why this fragmentation is being carried out? Unfortunately, this one way or another proves that when you have not completed a plan in your mind that you will face either problems of the past or you will cure needs that arise in a second year, you usually get into a logic just some to satisfy them - always for electoral reasons - some to have not been able to satisfy them and others to have them displeased. This, however, does not constitute a serious state. It's not a serious piece of legislation. It is not a serious way in which the government in question should every time - I want to be absolutely honest - the Greek state faces either the demands of local communities or the demands in general of Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u168	Please hang up, Mr. Chiara.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u169	In this way, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately you are against your own self. And being exposed is the least. At least, if you made good decisions, we could support them on the other hand, but much more show that at the critical moment the Greek political system can finally become serious. That's why we still have a long way to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u170	There are still four colleagues to speak: Mr Stoyannides - to come to Stepma - Mr Pavlides, Mr Karaoglou and Mrs Megalo-Economist. And we'll hang up with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u171	Are there not any secondarys, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u172	After the Minister closes, with whoever's in the Chair, you'll be discussing. My opinion is for two, three minutes, not more, the rapporteurs and only they can speak. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's plenary session, we are discussing the bill of the Ministry of Health entitled "Modernisation and Reform of the Institutional Framework for Private Clinics, Recommendation of the National Public Health Agency, Recommendation of the National Institute for Neoplasms and other provisions". This bill is composed of 147 articles and is still a sample of the government's health policy. Since I do not have time to refer to all parts of the bill, I have chosen to refer to some of them. Article 84 establishes the individual electronic health record. The individual electronic health record shall contain the individual health history of the recipient of health services, as well as data, estimates and information of all kinds concerning the condition and clinical evolution of that person as a patient throughout the care process. The contents of the individual electronic health record shall be kept equally and mandatory at national level. Persons authorised to process personal data have undertaken a confidentiality obligation or are under the appropriate regulatory obligation to respect confidentiality. Article 91 establishes surveillance areas. Services for safer use of narcotics and reduce the harm and adverse effects associated with drug use shall be provided in supervised sites. Supervising sites are a structure that operates in many countries of the European Union. It has first saved many user lives, but then it has helped to rehabilitate them from drugs. I sincerely am pleased that the New Democracy will vote for this structure. I cannot, however, leave the inaccuracies we heard from a number of New Democracy Members regarding its actions when it was government by January 2015. In 2014, hospitals had a deficit of 750 million euros. They now have a surplus of EUR 250 million. Over the next three years, tens of thousands of more employees will be appointed, permanently, in the NSH, four thousand doctors and six thousand nurses. Two and a half thousand appointments - a thousand doctors and a thousand five hundred nurses and other staff - will take place in 2019. In 2013, Xanthi Hospital Cardiological Clinic was compromised with closure. I still remember the then Members, the former Mayor of Xanthi and the former Vice-President of Xanthi who presented a protest to the then Minister of Health and the current Member of the New Democracy, who declares himself proud of his work at the Ministry of Health. The Xanthi Hospital employees informed me that in 2013 they had not only a shortage of doctors and nurses, but also of materials. At Xanthi Hospital in 2013 they didn't have any gauze. What I mentioned is a small sample of the health stuffed by the ministers of the New Democracy during the three years 2012-2014. I am sure that such situations existed in all public hospitals for three years 2012-2014, when health ministers were the current New Democracy MPs who are proud of their work. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate confirms, once again, the great difference between the New Democracy and Syriza on how each party understands health policy. New Democracy defends private health and reduces public health expenditure while SYRIZA supports and strengthens public and free health for all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for your brief. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-six students and students and three educational sessions of the Trikala School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speaker of SYRIZA Mr Konstantinos Pavlides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Health for its Ministerial Amendment on the recognition and certification of the Diamond Rehabilitation Unit in Corfu, a unit that is actually doing its work for several years anyway. It was a fair demand for the local society to be certified by this unit and have its legal status and to be able to make out of suffering too many families with dependents. I shall be particularly concerned with the amendment concerning the break-up of certain municipalities and the creation of new municipalities. KALIKARATIS, ladies and gentlemen, was basically a more progressive reform of the CAP, which was clearly unjustified in the memoranda with the financial grant, with the cut-off of resources to self-government and with the undermining of the services. At the same time, however, it had quite positive features. For example, the nominated region of other important legislation, where it was a consistent demand for local government to build adequate and powerful self-government entities. However, he had certain vulnerabilities. A serious atmosphere restored by KLITHENIS as a more progressive reform than the "KOPONISTRIA" was the change of electoral law, the constant demand for local government to establish mere proportional representation in the self-government elections. From there on, at least in island Greece, the self-government architecture was based on the logic of "one island, one municipality", with unique exceptions to Evia and Crete. There was an effective legalization, however, which created injustices in the large islands with its horizontal application, putting islands, such as Corfu or Lesvos, in the category of Milos, Symi or Leipzig, that is to say, areas with very small arithmetic, population and geographical size. I will give some indicative figures for Corfu: It is the most densely populated island in the country after Attica and Thessaloniki, with a hundred and eighty-five inhabitants per square kilometre. Fourth county is Heraklion, with a hundred ten inhabitants. All other counties in Greece, the remaining fifty, are under 100 inhabitants the square kilometre. It's one of the most densely populated islands in the Mediterranean. We have two hundred eighty villages and settlements with a connectivity between them - and because of the mountainous volume that exists - with a sixty-km national network, with a three hundred-km provincial network, with a five hundred-km municipality network. Also, because of the olive grove and the olive oil production of the four million olive trees, we have a six hundred km agricultural network. We have a tourist development throughout the island with four hundred twenty hotel units, with forty-seven thousand beds and fifty-two thousand rental rooms. There's a hundred thousand beds in total. Last year we had three and a half million visitors and seven hundred five thousand visitors from the cruises, with an airport, a port of passenger and a pier of cruise ships within the urban fabric of the city, within the administrative boundaries of the city of Corfu. In other words, we have three powerful vigilances, which were to be managed by the Municipality of Kirkras, in a city that also manages UNESCO issues. It is no coincidence that these sizes could not be served by the principle of 'an island, a municipality'. This is why there have also been specific studies by the Institute of Local Government since 2007 - more than ten years - that have been saying about the need to break up Corfu and other regions. It is no accident, therefore, that it was almost unanimous - except for the JRC - the decision of the regional council in relation to the municipality's division, the decision of the City Council of Corfu and the majority of local councils. There are fifty-four local councils expressing and representing seventy thousand inhabitants in a total of 100 thousands of Corfu residents. To avoid wrongfulness, and the New Democracy has taken a timely diagnosis from the first two years of law enforcement. Since 2013 there have been voices from Mr. Dendia, from Mr. Ghikas, from Mr. Michelaki, from a lot of Members and officials of the New Democracy, who raised the question of the fact that in the large islands there has to be a restoration, which has, unfortunately, led to a settlement in 2014, which, from Mrs. Gerekos in Corfu has frozen and been blocked by Mr. Venizelos and by PASOK, now passed on to the unclaimed. I'm going to report some clues. On July 18, 2013, Mr.Michelakis and Mr. Dendias proclaim the breakthrough of major island municipalities in the country. On 1-10-2013 and on 8-10-2013, self-government speaks of sixteen municipalities over a hundred thousand - nominally reports which municipalities are - putting in both Lesvos and Corfu. On 19-10-2013 PASOK, three municipalities in Corfu plus one on 10-1-2014. On 5-2-2014, Rhodes' "democratic" talks about the decision of the Permanent Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice of the Parliament on the bill, which - and with what Mr Sifunnakis said - was ready in March to testify, two months before the elections. Just so we know what we're talking about. You put three issues on. First, fragmentation and selectivity. I do not understand why there is fragmentation and selectivity. We had warned that along with "CLOSHEN", soon after they would come such legislation that would restore such powerful and exotic injustices. There are two comments. The first concerns the issue of clandestineness and the second, the time of tabling. With regard to sluggishness, provision is made for staff in Article 2 for transitional measures in the development of municipal services and agencies, for municipal property and for waste. The objections about waste - especially in Corfu, which are affluent - to those who know from self-government are not about the new municipalities. The new municipalities will only take over the collection. The strategic management and waste design concern SYDIS, the inter-universal link, which already exists and will exist either as a municipality or as a hundred municipalities. Also, for the time of the deposit, Kalikaratis, which was a holistic, overall reform that concerned the heretical region, was a major condensation of nine hundred municipalities and a hundred and twenty-four communities. A total of thirty-four local authorities were integrated into three hundred and twenty-five. There was a condensation of 70% of local government. A strong holistic piece of legislation came five months before the elections and seven months before the new self-government tasks took place. And you brought an amendment, which you finally leave to unclaimed, in March 2014, by municipal elections in May 2014. And you were ready to go through it. Mr. Venizelos and Mr. Michelakis were just yelling at the corner. I have the evidence that I mentioned before. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We are bringing in a targeted bill concerning four islands, which you have also pointed out had to break - all the studies pointed out this issue - with proposals and studies matured for a year. And we're piloting it, along with a continental municipality in Kosani, Velvet, to see the perspective, with a preparatory committee, with a scientific and cross-party nature for all other issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Paulides, let go of the Velvet. Talk about Corfu and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u177	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm on the dialog. These are now coming to an end in the next phase, in the coming months, as the Minister has announced. And we bring it almost three months before the elections and six months before the new job takes place. Where did you see the sloppy? Where did you see the short time to deposit and selectivity in matters? I think it is a very serious, strong legislature, which together with 'CLISTEN' corrects a first stage of injustices. And I think that next time, with the overall debate we are going to have on integrated regional planning in the country, the data will now be changed to local selfgovernment...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Pavlidis, I'm warning you for the last time!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u179	...and, in addition, ensures the basic principles of self-government, proximity, directity and subsidiarity to the local problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u180	Mr Theodoros Karaoglou, MP in Thessaloniki, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin, ladies and gentlemen, with an issue that I consider to be of major importance. It is a question of respect for democracy, of respect for the procedures in Parliament, of the temple of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember four years ago from this Step the Prime Minister of the country - in February 2015 - saying, "You are every letter and every word of the Constitution." These four years you have shown that it has nothing to do with what the Prime Minister said about what you have done. Legislation by urgent procedure. Legislation by surprise. You will also be voting in favour of amendments of surprise. Legislation by means of legislative acts. No respect for parliamentary procedures, no respect for the institutional functioning of Parliament! You have now brought an amendment to a health bill of sixty-eight pages from the Ministry of the Interior, which certainly has nothing to do with the bill under discussion. In essence, you have brought in another bill, another bill that has come suddenly, fragmentedly, and which has not already been posted, without public consultation, without studying the views of the competent institutions, the municipalities concerned, or the Central Association of Municipalities, which, incidentally, characterises your action as an institutional diversion. So this mini-legislative bill of sixty-eight pages is coming, in the form of the amendment, and it speaks of the division, of the five municipalities of surprise - I repeat - in the hands of the two - at the same time as eighty-one days before the elections on 26 May and at the same time as the promises of the relevant Minister, Mr Haritsis, at the CEDEFOP conference in Athens, in December, firstly, to increase the number of candidates in municipal and local councils from 30% to 50%, secondly, to change the method of election to the local councils, i.e. without prior definition of the head of the local ballots. At the same time, there is also a strong rumour that even gender representation will increase by 50%. And all of this - I repeat - is eighty-one-one-one-one days before the elections to the government. Indicative of clandestineness is this: the Minister, Mr. Haritsis, islands and proposes the division, the partition of four islands, Corfu in three municipalities, Kefalonia in three municipalities, Lesvos in two municipalities and Samos in two municipalities. Question: What criteria decided to divide these municipalities only and not, for example, Rhodes, which is the largest population island with about 20 000 inhabitants and is the second largest one after Lesvos? In what sense is the partition of the island of Chios proposed in two municipalities? I would like to say that the criteria are entirely subjective, arbitrary and micro-grouping, and the treatment has been totally rough and fragmented. The same is true, of course, invoked by Mr Haritsis and, on the other hand, by the Municipality of Serbs - Velvetou, who is breaking. I'm not actually going into it, whether or not it had to be done. I believe that this split had to be done, that the Municipality of Serbia had to be separated from Velvetou. However, I am speaking on the basis of the criteria. On what criteria did that happen? With what public consultation? With what conversation? With what position of the Central Association of Municipalities or the respective municipalities? He's talking about mountainity. Yes, sir! Let's make a comparison, then. Velvet has an average altitude of four hundred seven hundred and seventy meters and Serbs have an average altitude of four hundred and thirty meters. At the same time in Thessaloniki, there is Soho, the city of Soho, which has an altitude of six hundred and seventy-five meters. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] But that's not all. In relation to the division of the Municipality of Velvetou - Serbs, it refers to historical data. You want to talk a little bit about history? It has been shown that the settlement of Soho was inhabited from the oldest Middle Bronze Age from 2000 to 1500 B.C.E. And he kept on inhabiting all the years. In fact, historically, I mention, to learn, that since 1914 the Municipality of Soho was operating, which was subsequently abolished by "KALICRATIS". Do you want me to report any other evidence? Much I could say, but time is not enough. I just want to say that all the elements that the Minister himself has put - population, social, economic, geographical, developmental, functional and sustainable, all historically - are satisfied with the creation of a mountainous municipality in Thessaloniki, the Municipality of Soho. Unfortunately, the government has not heard any of this. It works, as I said before, with purely micro-party criteria and did not do what he had to do. I should like to stress something that is very important and shows the unreliability of the rulings: there have been parallel meetings of the Committee on Race for the establishment of the Municipality of Soho. And I am referring specifically to them, as the President of the Racing Committee sent them to me for the creation of the Municipality of Soho, Sakis Lecios: In May 2017 to the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior, Mr. Pulakis, in October 2018 to the then Deputy Minister of Macedonia - Thrace, Mrs Notopoulou, in November 2018 to the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Haritsi, in Thessaloniki, at the conference on "Kleisthenis", at the end of February at the office of Prime Minister. Of all was promised that this issue would be dealt with. In fact, Mr. Haritsis said attributes to the committee, when the meeting was held with the Competition Committee, that if he became a continental municipality, he would be the Municipality of Soho. I would like, therefore, to say, Mr President, that it is very clear to say that the statement made by the Minister for the Interior this evening, Mr Haritsis, that in the committee which will form the first topic to be discussed, it will be the issue of the Municipality of Soho. This is evidently the result of the remorse of the false promises he made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u182	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u183	I shall conclude, Mr President. But to say that the logic of setting up a committee today, which in two years' time will solve the problem, is the logic of 'flying the ball on the platform', is that we throw the ashes into the eyes of the citizens who are interested in these issues. Ladies and gentlemen, another policy, one serious, responsible policy, which respects the procedures, which respects the institutions, which will be in constant dialogue with society, is needed. This, of course, can occur only with clean solutions, only with elections, only with a government of New Democracy and a Prime Minister of Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr Karaoglou, Member of the New Democracy. Ms. Theodora Megalonikou, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that health is a fundamental human right, and it is necessary to have a modern, single institutional framework that will regulate it. Despite the institutional interventions made by the National Health System over the past two decades, this still faces problems of efficiency, efficiency, equality and quality of services. This bill we are currently working on is revisiting old, outdated regulations, simplifying administrative procedures, introducing institutions and bodies, aiming at modernising the health sector and services. It is particularly important that the consolidation carried out in a single legislation and scattered by arrangements for private clinics, as well as the modernisation of the framework for their operation, is carried out. The establishment of a National Patent Register and the creation of an individual Electronic Health File, while strengthening the protection of particularly sensitive personal data in the field of health, helps to fundamentally reform primary health care. The establishment of the National Institute of Neoplasia is a very important chapter of this bill, because we know that cancer is our country, as internationally, the main cause of the loss of many of our fellow people. So we will have developed a national strategy for dealing with it. This new body will contribute, through research, to the prevention, early diagnosis and treatment of such diseases and we will have new implementations of social and psychological support programmes for patients. At the same time, it will also help eliminate all forms of discrimination or social and occupational exclusion effects which, unfortunately, are experienced by people suffering from such illnesses. The issue that is a wound to our country, which the state must face, is the use of drugs that attempts to solve the bill in a responsible and serious manner, with provision for the creation of surveillance facilities for high-risk users, whose, unfortunately, number throughout Greece is estimated to be about seventeen thousand, half of whom are in Athens. They are people with very high dependence, mainly marginalized, who in most cases are directly at risk and must be helped. These people, because of their uncontrolled use, to find money and to secure their dose, take action under the Common Criminal Law. And the drugs they take are flawed. These people must therefore be assisted and controlled by specially trained personnel, so that we can have the least of the damage to them. At the same time, public health will be protected, as they will be prevented from being used in any public area. This will prevent the spread of infectious diseases and the upgrading of areas in the city where the citizens are now avoiding them being released, because they consider them to be unbaptised. In the past, we had areas such as Ghazi and various others - which had been degraded. And then Members of the New Democracy and PASOK were found to have purchased real estate there and upgraded. I don't know if this happened deliberately. Also, areas have been degraded by drug users, who, when they leave, will have found MPs again with real estate and will be upgraded. I don't know what game it is, what deal it is among brokers. Let's leave that out. So, we will have control over drug addicts, we will have an electronic prescription for drugs, we will no longer have the handwritten double prescriptions, which were a way of opposing the operation and a trade field and now there will be an easy supervision of the access of those who need it, which is necessary for them. There is another arrangement, with which we replace the CCTBO. CDC is another painful story! When I refer to CEDEFOP, the citizens tell me, "Yes, it's something associated with fraud, CEDEFOP equals fraud". The CEDEFOP is therefore replaced by a new Agency called EAFRD. There will be arrangements in pharmaceutical legislation, etc., aimed at reforming the health sector with a modern health services system, with full supervision and transparency. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. This government, in this way, proves in practice daily and in this bill, that its main concern is the reconstruction of the social state that has been so affected in recent years because of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to say that I accept a parliamentary amendment, namely Mr Dimitris Gakis's general number 2024 and Mr Dimitris Gakis's special number 172, which concerns the restoration of an openness, a payment of the staff of the Leros Hospital, which had moved to help the Leros Regional Hospital in 2014-2015, and the staff of the 2nd Health Region that had moved to support for some time in Leros' hospital. Now, with regard to the bill itself, I think we have had a very detailed debate in the committees and today and yesterday in plenary. I think that on the substance of the bill, the criticism that has been made was particularly anemic. And that, in my opinion, suggests - this was seen at the hearing by bodies - that there is a general recognition that it is a bill that modernises, upgrades, praises and strengthens the public system in our country. This bill comes after a period of time when a different political plan was implemented in the health field, within the crisis and within the memorandum, which prioritised citizens' universal coverage, guaranteed access to insurers, health care, strengthening human and material resources of public hospitals and other structures, promoting reforms of major importance, such as primary health care, emergency medicine, medicine, supply and, of course, it contains a very critical aspect, which is the aspect of the moralisation of the health system. I think it is also recognised by everyone that for the first time there was a strong political will to have a serious front against known overtime distortions, pathogens, phenomena of provocative demand, wasteful and corruption that existed in the health field. I think, therefore, that we are completing the puzzle of the modernization that we have now attempted in both the EHS and the system as a whole. The change in CEDEFOP is intervention - cut-off. You like it, you don't like it, that's the truth. These disguises, those about simple renaissance, etc., all understand very well that they conceal the real will not to change anything in this space, which was the epitome - and we have said so many times - of plausibility, opacity, transaction with interests, of the client state. It is important, therefore, that we change its legal character, we do not just change a name - this is a huge change in itself - and it puts this very important body in a new framework of supervision and control. It exalts the landscape and gives a signal that we are finally closing down this period, a period of twenty-five years of opaque management and administration and restores the authority and credibility of this public body for the protection of public health and, above all, restores the prestige and dignity of the honest workers and sciences of this body. National Institute of Neoplasms. Yesterday the bill was tabled, the President of the Pan-Hellenic Union of Pathologists Oncologists said publicly that yesterday's cancer policy is an important day in the country, and that, finally, Greece is following European developments, is being modernised, organised, on another basis, to address a major public health problem, which tries dignity every day and puts the lives of thousands of people at risk. That's a huge intervention. For the first time, we have a public body, a scientific institute, which organises, draws up a strategic plan for cancer and supervises all actions, from prevention to early diagnosis, appropriate treatment and even access to modern therapeutic developments based on new and up-to-date protocols until end-stage care. That's a huge change. Of course, there are many interventions that are particularly innovative in this bill, such as the surveillance areas, and there has been a lot of discussion about this. Let me say that I have seen a tendency from the majority of the political system, but also from the rest of the social, self-government and scientific bodies, to take a calm approach to this issue, precisely because we all understand that there is a serious social problem that needs to be addressed and that the problem of having problematic users, as we say, people who are marginalised, socially excluded in dishes, who use in unhealthy conditions, in conditions where there is a risk of transmission of infectious diseases to themselves, but also to their surroundings, that is no longer something we can hide under the carpet. We will do what the whole serious and civilized world does, and we will not hide behind either darkness or ideologies for the enhancement of the narcocult. This is obviously not a panacea. It's obviously not the only solution. It is, however, part of a package of changes and interventions that every organised state that wants to take care of its weak and vulnerable citizens, and this is our approach from the point of view of the needs of these people, who of course have the right to the best possible care. This is the approach, no legalisation of drugs, nothing, an intervention that has strong scientific and bibliographical documentation, which is being applied in many countries of Europe and which has proven to be contributing to the policy of reducing the damage, and many of these people have proved to be a first step in contact with the services of the health system and thus a first step towards entering a substitution programme, until they are of course in the difficult way of the final decommissioning. Well, that's all. I think that the high tone really, especially on the side of the JRC, should be of concern to us. Others whether we agree or do not agree or have different ideological approaches to the issue of dependence and its social base and all that and how we care for people who will otherwise die helpless. Other innovation: Social inclusion cooperatives. An excellent step that gives perspective to people who are disobedient and complete the programs of any nature. There are no good and bad programmes, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC. It is unscientific to say that a progressive drug treatment programme is only the'solid' programme. Nowhere do these things apply. Progressive is what helps, what meets social needs in terms of a public health system. This is progressive, everything that mitigates inequality, that prevents the marginalisation and exclusion of the weak. The Social Partners for Integration enable people to have a job prospects and gradually to support themselves on their feet. I'm telling you very briefly. e-prescription of narcotics. The patient register is a critical intervention that complements a grid of changes that we have promoted both in the evaluation and in the negotiation and rationalisation of medicines. Strengthen the evaluation committee, the HTA Committee. Improving the electronic pre-authorisation system for expensive medicines, etc. That's very critical, I think. There was a clear reference to private clinics in Article 21. So what does this article say? It is a law that exists and no one has changed since 2001, the law of Alexos Papadopoulos, which said that doctors of the ESS and university doctors cannot provide private work in private clinics. University doctors may maintain a private hospital or carry out a private work, as foreseen, within public hospitals. We don't change anything about it. It's still there. No one fundamentally disputes this regulation. They went down to S.T.E. The appeals of those who tried to change it. What do we say? In something we all recognise that it is not legal, when found out, to have a penalty for the owner of the private clinic. This was, therefore, considered to be a casus belli and a cause of war. We, ladies and gentlemen, want to be very clear. Neither forehead nor attack nor anything against university doctors. The Ministry of Health has given written samples that it seeks another balance between the ESS and the university. We've given seventy-eight EHS doctors' seats from our own positions, we've made them available to the seven medical schools in the country. The Larissa School of Medicine has taken ten positions from us members of the LAG and has been significantly strengthened and colleagues recognize this. We therefore want to find a new balance, with dialogue and consultation. And we have an institutional instrument for dialogue, which is the Interministerial Committee, between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health. There was never that. It meets with the presence of the Secretary-General and the Ministers and deals with issues of common competence relating to research, education, the clinical work provided to university hospitals. There is a matter of substance, but I think it is being formulated in advance. It's the matter of limited surgical time at public hospitals and large waiting lists. We recognize that there is a matter and we will make an effort in the next few months, firstly, with these recruitments that we announced and that there will be a targeted aid, in 2019 we will launch a thousand permanent NSA doctors' posts, to provide special care for the enhancement of anesthetic departments and, of course, all of the surgical departments with surgery nurses, etc., to increase the human potential, to increase the capacity of the system, to reduce the anticipation of surgery. Secondly, to make use of the legislative provision in place, to go to full-day surgery, but not to burden the patient. We are preparing a ministerial decision, there will be provision for this expenditure to be covered by the EEAS and for the available surgical time to be increased where they can make use of this regulation and university doctors and, of course, doctors of the ESS. So I think that, in essence, this is the perspective and I think that tones can fall and find areas of convergence and evacuation of any friction that has been created. I shall say two words about new tobacco products and this debate. What are we adjusting? We're setting up a loose end created by Law 4419. They had left the non-violet replacement fluids, the electronic cigarette. That is what we are now regulating on the basis of the substance. At the same time, there has recently been a conference in Geneva in October 2018 in the Member States belonging to an international framework network of the UN against tobacco, which is taking part in our country, which has signed a declaration. This declaration says that Member States should avoid health claims for new and emerging tobacco products. Our policy is therefore an option when we have established and regulated this framework. It is not a privileged treatment of these products. Because the policy of reducing the damage by these products does not have sufficient literature and scientific documentation. We made a legal change. We said that it would be possible for the Minister with a ministerial decision to regulate these details after consultation. And, of course, there is no question with the Commission and Europe. This proposal I am telling you now - our country has committed itself, has signed it - was recommended by the Commission to the WHO conference. And the European framework is very strict. And we've sent the arrangements, because that's what we're doing. And if there are any comments we have to comply with, we will of course be able to do so. In any case, we have set a provision for a six-month period for the implementation of the law, precisely so that there is a possibility of adjusting the market, etc. So there is not even something new and surprising there. That is what we have voted on so far. And I think that in a country that is badly not applying anti-smoking law, we should not give the signal - and this is a global case, dear Costa Barriotas, and you know it very well, I have said many times that it needs a broad social and political front to deal with this distortion that exists and exposes us as a country - that we tolerate, make discounts in the current context. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude and allow me, Mr President, a special reference to an issue that has taken too much weight. So because there was no serious controversy with the other arrangements, the New Democracy yesterday, as Mr Christos Mandas rightly pointed out, is dragging through its Vice-President into a rhetoric that really offends our intelligence. What do we do? We have a distorted framework of monumental cutting, which we have not been able to - although we have attempted to do so during the surveillance period - to influence, because it was a very hard prerequisite for all evaluations. We took the first step after the end of the memorandum and went to a review instead of two. They didn't dare to say it was a present in the pharmaceutical industry. In the same arrangement there is a second part. We support the Agency's budget of EUR 20 million for hospital spending - no one said that this is a gift to the pharmaceutical industry - and this is also the case retroactively from the 2018 budget. We decided to give EUR 45 million more this year for the hospital medical expenses of the ERC. I didn't hear anyone say we were giving the pharmaceutical industry a present. All right, let's come up with it. Are there political choices to ensure patient access to medicines, especially to expensive drugs, that our country's cancer patients have access to expensive medicines is a gift to the pharmaceutical industry? Putting in a framework that corrects distortions makes it more transparent, more sustainable, more effective is a gift to the pharmaceutical industry? I think you're really insulting intelligence. Go to the conferences, go to the cuts of the pie of the pharmaceutical industry and cry that public pharmaceutical expenditure is low and weep about clawback. And when we go to fix a little bit and streamline the frame, you start saying we give gifts to the pharmaceutical industry? Our approach is from the point of view of people's needs. We have ensured in the crisis, within the memorandum that you hadn't done no more than you lied about and said that you had dealt with it. Today hundreds of thousands of uninsured people, only with their AMKA, prescribe their medicines and one third with zero participation! And of course, there's a matter of involving the patient in the cost, I said it yesterday. We have made some first relief speeches because this has allowed us the financial framework and we will try to strengthen them for those who are being generic and treated with drugs belonging to 10%, chronic drugs, and by reducing the burden on 1 euro per prescription, and by zeroing the participation of cancer patients in the supplementary medicines of the disease. We've given written samples. A new landscape is being created in the field of medicine in Greece and everyone knows that. There's addiction in the drug field. The invoicing process by the IFO is completely transparent and no one has spoken in all these years. It has not been disputed that dialogue is institutional and is done on the table and that there are instruments for institutional dialogue. For the first time, there is no consultation behind closed doors! And can I tell you something? We don't have any consultants who all the people knew they were involved with the industry, so we can finish the presents. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] 'Yes, but' he says, 'you are changing the reference base and from where we had the Memorandum of Obligation of the three lowest prices in Europe of twenty-eight, we are going to go down to the two lower euro area of nineteen and that will give rise to increases'. You're also mocking people. We said yesterday from the active codes that exist in two thousand, their prices are falling. Therefore, the country is a benchmark and companies have a country reference and price reduction. In another two thousand, the price increases, and the rest stays stable. We've calculated that there's no fundamental balance change. So let's get this mockery over with. New Democracy's announcement is challenging. In an area where its programme has been presented, the Chief has spoken and hadn't spoken about the medicine, I think it gives the signal of a huge unreliableness and absolute disrepute across the pharmaceutical market. You want and rule - your terror! - in such an irresponsible, demagogic and populist attitude, which is all it serves to try to forsake the government and harm its moral advantage. You won't make it, and you know it very well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty-three American students and three educational sessions from Saint John's College and Tobin College. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now, before the vote, we are entering the last section, where some of the rapporteurs will speak. I would like to ask the rapporteurs to limit themselves to time, because we have escaped and have to vote electronically forty-five articles and seventeen amendments and we will be delayed. Please let us reduce the time to four minutes. Starting from the end, I give the floor to Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u189	Tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u190	Here, Mr President, you have the floor with a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u191	In advance again, as in yesterday's position in the procedure for the interventions of the rapporteurs, I would ask - and perhaps the other rapporteurs will need it - for additional time from the one you have proposed because the amendments, as you know, are all seventeen, eighteen, if I am not mistaken, since one more has now been added to the end. You will give us time to say two words, if not all, at least for what everyone appreciates wants to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u192	Well, you shouldn't have any complaints. Yesterday we arrived at twenty-two minutes and it was enough time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u193	Look, Mr President, do not take it back to what was left over, to what we discussed yesterday on a point of order before the debate on the bill begins. If you remember correctly, in the Conference of Presidents, we have put it in place for many days now that the debate on this bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u194	Yeah, I remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u195	... it should be carried out, as we at least know for some years now, at the outset and on the articles, so that at least the rapporteurs, if anything, can be given the time allowed by this procedure for them to be placed. That is why I call for this tolerance and I will try to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u196	Good, Mr. President. You can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u197	I'm not gonna stand by the bill. They have also been heard from our positions, not only in the committee, but also here, and also by respecting the timetable and, if you like, the time and the whole bill and its parts for which we have been placed. I am going directly to the amendments. I am starting with the Minister with a general number of 2001 and a specialist of 156 concerning the EAW. What's the government doing here? What's he coming to do? It uses merit as a cover to hide the essential aim which is reflected in the first two articles of the amendment. And that is clearly the right to the administration of the EKAB, to move any driver of the EKAB to meet needs. What, in our view, is going on here? Mobility policy is shielded in order to cover huge gaps through travel, as no recruitment is made. Let us note that there are paragraphs and articles, as you would like to say, which, if they were separately, we would support. Like, for example, in the specific reference to the general number 2001 and a specialist of 156, the EAW, in any case, we would vote 'in favour' in the paragraphs, in the articles, as you say, 2 and 6. The same applies to Amendment Nos 2010 and 162, which we will vote against, because it burdens the'vertical' in paragraphs or Articles 1 and 5, and the interim we could vote on them. As far as the first paragraph is concerned, what does it do and what does it actually reflect? It is about the political substitution of public health centres and some of the licenses from pharmacies, that is to say, with the possibility of inoculation into pharmacies. And, in our view, this regulation also seeks to tackle the subsidization of primary care units, the huge shortage of infrastructure and equipment and to provide a solution that does not cost where? In the state. Moreover, it paves the way for the expansion of medical work by private pharmacies, which is also the declared goal by industry's big businessmen. Of course, as I said, in paragraph 5, public health operations are guaranteed for non-governmental organisations, i.e. in the covered private business sector. Here is our objection to paragraph 5 in Article 1, but also to Article 2, with regard to the approval of the Secretary-General - rather to the former - of the Ministry of Health for the Preventive Examination. Now if they are scientifically indicated, what other criteria are there to implement them that require prior approval? This is also a condition which introduces the cost criterion and cost-limitation of the minimum regardless of the essential needs. The amendment - also ministerial - by a general number 2015 and a special number 165 is about restoring self-sufficiency to hospitals. This measure, by breaking hospitals for self-sufficiency, in any case, of the merging hospitals does not dissociate the political sub-financing of the hospitals from the state budget and their operation as autonomous economic units of the public, i.e. on business criteria. That is what we want to build on this amendment. As regards also the Ministerial Amendment of 2014 and a specialist of 164 for mobile health groups in primary health care, their character is limited in terms of the content of their missions and the geographical boundaries that cover them. In our opinion, such mobile units should be an organic unit of the developed pan-Hellenic primary health care units, health centres and others, whether they are in the region or in the urban centres, with staff, permanent staff and full-time and full-time and funding from the state budget. Moreover, workers should not be, as is expected at least here, a fixed time, i.e. temporary and low-paid. As far as the Ministerial Amendment is concerned, with a general number 2019 and a special number 169, we support the amendment. In other words, we see it positive and dominate, if you like, Article 2, that is to say, the arrangement with the decommissioning units and, more specifically, the respective hospitals in Corfu and Yannina. Here we must note that all the previous period and scientists there, the workers, the doctors, the staff, but also the bodies embrace this effort that has been under way for a number of years, and in this way they have been trying to strengthen these structures and their functioning in the field of dealing with drug addiction, rehab, etc. As far as the amendment from the Ministry of Interior is concerned, it is clear that anything other than the Ministry or the Government's concern with this amendment from the Ministry of Interior is to facilitate popular needs and struggles at the same time. What does he want to do with it? The reasons for the vote are clear three months before the elections, and much more so the forecasts set out in the amendment for the procedures to be followed over a month, in the two months to four months respectively for some issues that must necessarily be dealt with by the breaking of the municipalities, as well as the issues with the workers - which is who will go - are issues that remain to be resolved and are not, with these timetables and with those of the amendment, resolved in these timescales at least. Let me have two words on two parliamentary amendments. Now see what it is asking for with the amendment of a general number of 1985 and a colleague specialising in 148. Calls for Naoussa to join the barren and problematic areas, in order to provide incentives for the maintenance of health structures for doctors. Naoussa is not barren and problematic. For us barren and problematic for the people, it is the SYRIZA Government's policy that continues even more worthy of its predecessors to support business groups and goes by saying. Greece has also become an unfavourable and problematic problem for people's needs, since there is also a huge number of doctors of all specialties, nurses, equipment, etc. As far as Parliament's amendment is concerned, with a general figure of 1980 and a specific figure of 145, which proposes an increase of 1/5 of the salaries of governors and so on, we say that it will not increase. Do not increase to either one or the other. And here, let's say this. Do they want a financial reward for the anti-Flanders policy they practice through the positions they hold in hospitals, whether autonomously or interconnected? Finally, with regard to the general amendment of 1986, and a special reference to 149 which provides for the payment of short-stay newspapers, we are, of course, in favour of having been paid for as a result, as is the last one for Lero at the last moment, now before we finish the debate and it also concerns the payment of staff allowances for either the island or the other health establishments. And that's what we agree with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u198	Thank you for the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Lambroulis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured to the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" twenty-seven students and students, as well as two teachers from the 8th Lamia High School. The House welcomes you. Tell all students and students that they're attending a health ministry bill meeting. We are towards the end of the process, where the special speakers of the parties are speaking, and then the vote of the bill will be followed so that it becomes the law of the state. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Aivatidis for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. The Golden Dawn for Article 91 that we requested to withdraw and relates to the areas of supervised use of intravenous heroin, a roll-call vote was requested tomorrow. The government that represents the state has raised a white flag in this war against drug traffickers by introducing this article and the introduction of these supervised drug use sites. I repeat that this is an unacceptable corollary, because the Greek state will henceforth be compatible with the existence and trafficking of drugs in our country. Mr President, we in these supervised sites call them drums spots and believe that there will be MPs who will vote against this article of law and hopefully never become the law of the Greek state. I shall briefly refer to the amendment on the fragmentation of the municipalities. Among the municipalities that will suffer this partition or division is the Municipality of Corfu. It is not vital to partition for the Municipality of Corfu. What is vital and concerns the Corfu citizen is the resolution of the major waste management issue on the island. There's a supersaturated HYTAD in Templelon, from which free biogas is released. This biogas contains carcinogenic substances and pollutes the hydrogen horizon in both Templon and Lefkimi’s CYPTH. What I have to point out, however, is that the Bulgarians, as they want to call themselves, of the SYRIZA Kirkras spoke of extreme right-wing garbage, which react to this illegal Lefkimia HITA. It is a figurative statement from the Step of the House, because regardless of the political sign, the ideology that each Lefkimmoiti has, cannot be described by an elected representative of the Corfu people as "supplier". We, for example, were helpless in the effort for Skouria, never called the leftists and anarchists who reacted to Skouria. It's unacceptable. From the other SYRIZA MPs, Mr Pavlides, we heard something that is of particular interest, that partitioning only concerns the collection of waste and not the management. Conclusion: SYRIZA has decided to turn Lefkimmi - although I do not like to use Arabic or Turkish terms - into a havoc. It's disgraceful, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u200	The special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Konstantinos Barriotas, has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u201	After the Minister, one is tempted to answer the whole question. I will not, however, do so, respecting both time and fatigue. There was really a very good conversation, and I think everything went to the table. Those who watch us can judge. I shall therefore confine myself to a general political statement. I have said many times - and this is mainly about EGE in this bill - that this government is a counter-reform government. It dislikes the real reforms and supports my speeches that the two major amendments come, the separation of hospitals and the separation of municipalities, which are carried out in a typical way, which you do not call reform, you do not call it a change, but, unfortunately, the characteristics are mainly customer. I would like to start with an amendment that has not been tabled to this bill, but has been tabled in the next bill, which will be discussed immediately after the end of this sitting today. It's a small bill of nine articles - please! - very important, in my opinion, as far as oral health and oral hygiene, which has not been discussed, I have not been able to read it properly - and I really do not understand, because it was not part of the bill or today's debate, no one has been placed for this reason, and it is a little hollow as if it were not due. I think that's a huge weakness. I said the other day about this partition of the Ministry's legislative work, which concerns both the pharmaceutical expenditure and I said it before. If we want to talk seriously about pharmaceutical policy, one that we do and do well, it is to discuss it publicly at the Intergroup Committee of Parliament, and the other is to try to discuss a comprehensive legislative framework, which we have not seen. Unfortunately, in the last four years, the Ministry has been legislating with unnecessary amendments, in unrelated bills, which have not been discussed, many times they have not been evaluated and often corrected, because it is wrong. At some point we need to overcome this and start talking about an extremely serious issue in terms, not acidity, as we have seen these days, but much more serious terms and much more serious and structured. This, for the time being, will be my only comment on this. For the sake of time-sharing, I will not mention any more. Mr Lovers and other colleagues have already been put on the subject of pharmaceutical expenditure. With regard to the regulation of the EKRD, of transfers, I heard Mr Polakis last night - which, as they say in my village, is being cut fat - talking about a major reform - rationalisation. It seems at first sight that this is indeed a change in a positive direction, except that it lasted twenty hours. The EKRD workers - and to their credit - point out that this thing we are voting on today is of a customer character, to the extent that moleculosis is about family criteria and nothing else. They are asking themselves to add criteria of work, to be donated, to mobilise the work of the rescuers, to fight with the ambulances, which is also an incentive for the workers of the EKA to go down to the street, in Athens, in the big cities and to work outside offices, where the whole process really hurts and has voids. So I would invite you to take a serious look at this. And since we can no longer withdraw this article, we can see it briefly. Because this is what is going on here, and in fact, as it happens, it has a customer character, unfortunately, rather than a rationalisation. From the old unarmed framework, we must move on to a new framework, which really evaluates the workers, mobilize them on the basis of their action and their work and not just the family situation. Otherwise, we don't do anything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I come to the issues of the Ministry of the Interior for the municipalities. Although - I am praying to say - which is largely justified for some municipalities to see not only divisions but also, possibly, re-orders, this must be done in a concrete way. Otherwise, we are at risk of finding ourselves very easily in the before the "KOPONISTARIA" era of communities for micro-political and micro-services purposes. Unfortunately, this is still a counter-reform step that goes backwards, as it has no criteria and no references. It has not taken place on time, but it is coming on eve of elections, asking huge questions about the motives that are pushing this government to do today. We did hear from Mr. Haritsis yesterday that he will continue the division of municipalities from here to the elections. It is obviously unacceptable that such procedures should take place shortly before the elections. We have the establishment of mobile health teams. I can't stand the temptation to comment on it. I have a children's memory of some nice, great, white Land Rover that was circulating in those years when a society didn't have a vehicle, it didn't have a road, but it had thousands of people in remote communities, and the density of doctors was tragic. Reading, I see that there is no other criterion of establishment. It does not even provide for the existence of a vehicle in the region as a precondition for the creation of TWGs. That is to say, any regional manager who wants to set up a mobile unit can hire - because this is really what this is - through the PSE team, drivers and not have a car. I will not disagree that in very specific cases in the new Greek geographical landscape some mobile units may be needed. The experience of the past is tragic. I shall mention, for example, the mobile units of the OSH, the ships that went to the islands and others. If we continue to legislate on the knee in the way that this amendment introduces this reform, then again there we will end up, having wasted resources that could yield to the health system multiples. If these workers are invited to the remote health centers or to the peripheral hospitals of the mountains that already exist as infrastructure, they will probably do better than wait for the U.S. to find a vehicle to take a ride. In fact, the subject here is appointments and nothing else. To not always be so bad, to say that the arrangement for the specialisation examinations is really satisfactory and solves a chronic problem. In the way we are getting along, it finds us absolutely in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u202	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u203	I didn't say anything. If I say something good, you don't like it. I said a good one. Let it pass! I'm on the subject of ESS hospitals. There is no doubt that hospitals that have joined together, after this five-year experience, could better work on some divorced, otherwise some could be reconstructed. It's a conversation that needs to be done. In fact, however, what must be done and not done is that neither business plan nor support nor prospects exist anywhere. To talk about Larissa I know, apparently the old university can also continue connected and function with separation. What can't be done is there's no support. Mr. Kelles showed some pictures from the local press. The university hospital over time suffocates working at 95% of its capacity, which you well know is problematic on its own. The old hospital has major problems, which have not been supported. The bet is to see what we will do strategically and in the long term in a region like Larissa, in an area like Heraklion that has specific problems. In Larissa, public beds fall short of the average pan-Hellenic term dramatically. It is no accident that it is the only provincial city that has two large private units and is designed as a third. It is because the public sector is a scholarship. Can we see in the medium term what we're going to do, together or apart? Four years this job is being discussed, because you remember, Minister, that you announced it already in 2015 and it is 2019 that we will go into separate operation. It is a good thing that we are going ahead with some problems in substance and that we also see the issue of working in a second year, which, in my opinion, is not so important. For the ERCF and for the redefinition, the redefinition of its composition I have no particular objections. This removal of WTO membership does not, if I may say so, fall within the scope of unrelated bodies which you have said, and you have rightly said so. Probably a vengeful move looks like anything else. Decrease from two to one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u204	Complete your thoughts, Mr Barriotta, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u205	My view is that there is no reason to change. I just wanted to make one comment, and I will end with it, for the image of the bill and the amendment on Naoussa. The barren area, the barren hospital, practically. It is a hospital that triangulates with two more in fifteen kilometers, Edessa, Naoussa and Veria. It is one of the classic examples of the distortive way health units have developed in Greece. It suggests something much more important than possibly in Naoussa at this time to find doctors. It demonstrates the fact that we have never advanced any major reform before, that we have not even adjusted or planned how a necessary redeployment of forces will take place in specific areas of the country, which you and I all know there are distortions and excesses. It is more important to cure the chronic problems than to baptise Amphissa, Naoussa, tomorrow - the Trikala, and I do not know what other place. I think that the chronic problems are not dealt with in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u206	Good, Mr. Barriotta. We shall proceed with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Jason Fotella, for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, we have said this from the very beginning and we are stressing it once again. The bill under discussion is a bill that moves towards normalising your own loose ends. Concentration, partitioning and customer logic dominate, with recruitment or taxis, this known ‘under the supervision of the AACC’. They've become, the truth is, some marginal improvements to some articles - why hide it anyway? - for example in private clinics, which you have rightly changed the unacceptable provision for the criminal record, but which remains in case 3, because you put the irreversible, in particular, as it should be. But case 3 speaks of prosecution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u208	Some time ago this government legislated in favour of...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u209	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u210	So I say that some time ago that government legislated in favour of the presumption of innocence. Exercise of criminal prosecution cannot condemn the presumption of innocence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u211	Of special decency, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u212	Yeah, but it's just a prosecution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u213	It's what's true of public uptake.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u214	The provisions of the annexes were also improved, which really had to be modernised. However, neither has the provision of Article 13 changed for the work of doctors, who want to convert them into state officials, and we insist, as is the provision in Article 8. On the matter now of the National Institute of Neoplasms, as I said - and we stressed it - it existed, it worked with mistakes, with omissions, but it worked. But we will in any case support its operation. In relation to the problems that will arise from the total lack of a strategic plan and full funding, no matter what, we will resolve this in a few months' time when we will be government and we will be called upon to resolve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u215	With the daughter in mind, she's getting rich.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u216	With regard to Article 88 on the end of cosmetics, I am not personally concerned, but only Portugal and we have a similar end. But also in the country of the Iberian Peninsula, the end is reduced. It remains high here, and indeed with retroactive power, which is obviously not of a development character.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u217	The "retrospective" came out. Read it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u218	I don't have time, Minister. Where am I supposed to catch it when you bring it to "and five"? I wish he came out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u219	He wants good students...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u220	As for Article 99, with the legality you made it clear, you made it clear. Everyone's gonna get a hazard license except for doctors. And of course, you're still talking about radio physics. They're not the people that are radiophysics, they're radiological. Under Article 138, which provides for the transfer of ERM doctors to and from the EAW, there is a question as the conditions under which this procedure will be carried out are not ensured. I now come to the drugs issue. We will vote against the amendment on the pricing of medicines and have tabled a request for a roll-call vote, because the regulation will now prove to lead to an increase in prices and therefore a burden on the patient's pocket. Because there may be no financial burden, as you said, of course, after the pharmaceuticals and the patient are paid for by the claw back. There is no evidence of the reduction you claimed. The rises result from everywhere. Now, with regard to a few additional amendments, with regard to Amendment 1985/148 for doctors in fertile areas, you finally understand, Minister, that some issues must be dealt with in general and responsibly. This is indeed a very serious matter, in order to bring it into a fragmentary way to an amendment. At last, legislate properly! Indeed, the Naoussa health units, but also other areas, are facing similar problems and we need to find immediate solutions for all. Now for the Ministerial Amendment No 2010/162, we are opposed by the disciplinary officer of pharmacists, who again put an active judge. As the past has shown, it will cause problems, blocking the administration of justice. No matter how positive the position of the first paragraph is, it should be possible for pharmacists to carry out vaccinations - which is also in our programme - the whole of the amendment is negative. With regard to the Ministerial Amendment 2001/156 on the transitions of the EKAB, again sloppy and incredible gaps in the legislature! I would say that you will withdraw the amendment and bring it complete so that no problems can arise. Otherwise, we have to vote against it. Now in relation to Parliamentary Amendments 2018/168 and 2021/171 on unhealthy work allowances in Okana and AEMY, I told you before, stop taking such a serious issue irresponsibly. In our programme we have talked about the rationalisation of allowances. It is not possible to ask us to legislate in fragmentary terms and to close the eye in specific categories of workers. Do you not understand that we cannot wrong all those who have to receive this benefit? I repeat that we in the first place are voting against the bill. We shall vote on some articles that we consider in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr Foyla, rapporteur of the New Democracy. Last of the rapporteurs, George Caisa, the rapporteur of SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there has been a debate. Although the bill is very big and very important, I think all of its aspects have been affected. I would just like to highlight a few points. There has been a debate on Article 21. The Minister was also mentioned, but I would like to read what exactly Article 21 says, in order to understand what it is all about: 'The holders of a private clinic, who are engaged in any relationship with doctors of the ESS or university doctors, in breach of Article 11 of Law 2889/2001, impose a fine of EUR 70,000 and in the event of relapse, the removal of the authorisation to establish and operate the clinic'. In other words, since 2001, there have been violations, violations, but no one has been punished. Is that what they want? Shall we withdraw it? Letting them not be punished? I think it is clear what is being pursued in Article 21. Another issue that was also a great deal of talk about is that some are still insisting and defending CEDEFOP, the organization that for twenty-seven years, since 1991, the left had not known what the right woman, the organization in which she was never controlled for twenty-seven, twenty-seven years. When sworn accountants were sent a year ago, they didn't find any evidence to check. They did say that if it were a private business, they would shut it down because they had no evidence. Of course, the evidence was built in a room and was also a plasterboard, and so the thing was studied. This body was an example to avoid. The CEDEFOP represents the old political system, client appointings, the "days", the disseminating of money without any control. Those who criticise us, that we are doing a new body which, however, is a legal person governed by public law and, therefore, is slow and so on, I refer them to Article 54 which provides for what is happening in urgent and unforeseen situations. Within twenty-four hours the Ministry of Health, the Scientific Council for Public Health and the National Agency for Public Health may decide the procedure for dealing with the situation. We are being criticised for doing a neoplasm institute. Instead of being told by the Opposition because for so many years there has been no such institute to deal with cancer, it is criticizing us why we are doing so. Until now, the cancer and the problems caused by the disease are dealt with by the sufferers themselves. We all know that there are clubs and unions that are trying, on their own initiative, to deal with the problems that arise. For the first time cancer becomes a matter of state, it becomes a matter of state and is treated with scientific criteria by scientists. I do not believe that there is a country in Europe that does not have such an institution. Two words on the amendments and I shall end. As far as the amendment with a general number 2014 and a special 164 for mobile health groups is concerned, I think it is a very serious matter. Not only will situations be dealt with in difficult areas, but we are intervening in primary health care to create the culture of prevention throughout the population. This unit will have a doctor, she'll have a dentist, she'll have a pediatrician, she'll have a midwife. So her work will be to prevent her from healing. The aim, that is, will be to 'think' the population in this direction. The amendment with a general number 2015 and a special number 165 puts the specialisation tests in two centres. It's very right. We know what the situation is. Doctors' examinations for specialty are given to various hospitals, with what one might imagine. The unification and the pan-Hellenic manners of these tests put some high standards in place. The two types of examinations which are given - written and then, if they pass, orally - I think they guarantee a certain level of qualification. Finally, with regard to the self-sufficiency of hospitals, I should like to point out that the interconnection of hospitals was one of the objectives: or to dissipate some hospitals, degrade or close down. After all, one colleague said so from the Step of the House: “What do we want? Every city and hospital? What's happened?" Of course he doesn't know where the end will end, but I think he'll end up to the right, because that's his ideology. That's their target. We, therefore, who support public care and public hospitals, could only self-determination, become self-evident. And since there has also been a lot of talk about the Dumotich, and many support - and my colleague has said - that they have managed to self-sufficiency in the Dumot Hotel, I would like to say to him that it cannot be with the farmkeeper and the police officer. He can't be with those who were joining and those who gave selfishness to the hospital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u223	Thank you Mr Georgios Caisa, SYRIZA rapporteur. As you have been informed, tomorrow at 10 a.m. there will be a roll-call vote in certain articles and amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u225	Yes, of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u226	Allow me to make a few comments on the closure of the debate, mainly on the basis of Mr Barriotta's position. My dear colleague, what you like - you do not like - has happened over the years is that this government and the specific political leadership of the Ministry were those who in the crisis, in a period of austerity, went ahead with the most important health reforms, neither counter-reformation nor demagogy nor populism. The most important reforms have been made at this time and the most critical of them, which is of enormous social value, was the decoupling of the right to health care from insurance, work and income. That was the great social reform, one of the greatest that this government has done. And I mean, at the same time, reforms, as I said before, both primary health care and medicine. A few days ago, Moscovisi came. Those who followed the speech - I listened back to it - said that they explicitly mentioned the very important steps taken in Greece in the field of primary health care reform. The same thing in other words, he said a few months ago at the World Health Organisation conference on primary care by the Director-General of the WHO. And above all, this is what the citizens who come and serve in a completely different, more holistic way to the new structures that we have developed throughout the country. So don't go on with this line of reaping these interventions. We have managed to open up a hundred and fifteen new public structures within a short period of resources. This is a huge success, with problems, with difficulties of staffing obviously, but it is a widening of public space. It is guaranteed high quality and free care to people who had already been poor in the years of the crisis and had difficulties in accessing them. Secondly, you are absolutely right about the amendment to be discussed in the next bill concerning the dental care of schoolchildren. This is an important intervention. We have secured EUR 40 million this year from the EEA budget. These days, the process of working with the free professional dentists will be completed and parents, having a voucher, will be able to take their child to the dentist of their choice for specific types of therapeutic and preventive interventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u227	This is another type of primary care.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u228	That's not from public structures. We secured 40m euros and said to invest in children's oral health. If you don't agree, don't vote for it. But I would remind you that after about twenty years the public or insurance system has come to provide dental services to the insured. In the overall plan for the medicine, we are totally in agreement. We did not have the possibility - the truth is - because there are pressures, I mean pressing timetables, conditions, deadlines for getting price lists, etc., to set up an independent draft law on pharmaceutical policy. Our aim is, by using the debate in the intergroup committee of Parliament, to compose such a long-term strategy for the drug sector. Mobile Health Units. There's an objective problem. There are studies, my dear fellow Member, which say that the elderly population of mountainous, inappropriate and barren regions in the hinterland has twice as many unsatisfactory medical needs as the average population in the rest of Greece. This means inequality and mobile units are a tool for alleviating these inequalities, for intervention in close proximity to local communities, in home care, in caring for people who have difficulties in moving. That is what we ensure. We have a very good example. You have rather experience of some of the interventions, perhaps unscheduled, fragmented, mainly from self-government, than I understand. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about a set-up programme, which is an eligible cost to get European funds. Ninety mobile units throughout Greece, nine hundred workers. These workers, Mr Barriotta, could not be hired - and you know that very well - with this money in health centres. The European Union and the Structural Funds of Europe finance innovative actions. It is innovative, eligible and will help decentralise the reform in primary health care and its range throughout the country. A final point concerns the issue of the barren regions. I agree that there too needs a more comprehensive approach. We, therefore, thought that this bill should be preceded and speeded up by the designation of five to six regions and structures in the country as barren to boost the incentives of attraction, at the same time we have set up a team which will help us to get to a preparatory preparation for the review of the status of the barren regions throughout the country and, above all, for the review of the current modalisation of incentives for attracting particular doctors. We must set extended criteria, my dear fellow Member, not only mountain, island, insularity, but also criteria for repeated atrocities, criteria for percentage of uncovered organic positions. We must set multiple criteria to characterise public structures as barren. So don't play by saying now that Naoussa, which is so far away, or Amphissa that we were told by others, who is an urban center...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u229	Naoussa is another story, Amphissa is another story.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u230	It needs a comprehensive review, of course. Today we have made a first intervention, as we did a first intervention in the disconnection, where, rather than a positive development, there have been problems. I think that in this way, in fact, we have made a comprehensive modernist intervention at this time in the health system. We are committed to trying to bring about a new institutional reorganisation of the health system in the near future, as we call it, in which we will try to deal with long-term deficits, institutional deficits of the ESS, such as, for example, providing a new framework for the bodies of the RIS, hospitals and primary care structures, to move around the nursing sector, changes in medical education, changes in medical conventions and how doctors participate in them, and a lot of other vital issues that no one has ever dealt with in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Modernisation and Reform of the Institutional Framework for Private Clinics, the establishment of a National Public Health Agency, the establishment of a National Institute of Neoplasms and other provisions". Applications have been made for a roll-call vote on the Ministerial Amendment 2013 and a special 163 Members of the New Democracy, on the one hand, and on Article 91 of the draft law by Members of the People's League - Golden Dawn on the other. The roll-call vote and vote on the nominee article and on the whole of the draft law will be held tomorrow 7 March 2019 at 10.00 p.m. We are informing that the rapporteurs and the special speakers of the draft law should remain tomorrow after the roll-call vote to vote on the farewell article and the whole draft law. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles and amendments - those other than roll-call votes - and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out to you that the vote includes the start of the bill, a hundred forty-four articles and seventeen amendments. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. You should make sure that you have voted for all the articles and amendments that are being voted on. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u232	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u233	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u234	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Modernisation and Reform of the Institutional Framework for Private Clinics, Establishment of a National Public Health Agency, Establishment of a National Institute for Neoplasms and other provisions’ was accepted in principle, articles and amendments of non-voting requests, by majority vote. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the second bill for today, that of the supplementary agenda. Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: 'Committee on Vocational Sport and Other Provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 4 March 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u235	The House has agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-six students and students and four teachers from the 2nd Grade of Argos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Tell the students and students that you're attending a meeting for a bill from the Ministry of Sports. The rapporteurs of the parties are placed at the outset, expressing their views on the draft law. Then the MPs take the floor and then a vote takes place and the bill becomes the law of the state. We will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Vassiliou, for some legislative improvements to the draft law. Here, Mr Vasiliadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, I am tabling some legislative improvements which have emerged during the debate on the once again. For the time economy, I submit them for information to this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much. We are now entering the rapporteurs. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Alonitou, has the floor for 15 minutes. As you know, after Mrs Aylonitou, will Mrs Karamanlis speak and during the speech of the first two rapporteurs you will be able to register in the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u238	Because it is a meeting, Mr President, you should give us a little more time, because we compact two speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u239	Start now with as much economy as you can and we'll find a way not to cut you off. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the draft law entitled 'Committee on Vocational Sport and other provisions'. Today's bill was long awaited by the sporting community.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u241	Wait a minute, Mrs. Alonitou. Please open the electronic system to make registrations. Please continue, Mrs. Alonitou, and I'm sorry I interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u242	And who isn't this sports bill about? Athletes, coaches, any operator operating in a professional group or amateur sports club, association or federation, any fan active in the management of the sport pyramid, from the simple local club, the athletic cell, to the federation of each sport. For a 20-year time, sport at a global level has been constantly mutating, leaving its social role and expanding its supply every day by increasing television coverage and corporate sponsorships, and the management of sport has evolved into a privileged area for the breeding of corruption and interlocutory. Although the government has taken important initiatives in the context of the resolution of sport, particularly professional sport, complaints of opacity, manipulation of matches, illegal betting, overcompensation of teams and so many others continue to exist. Ladies and gentlemen, we must realise that corruption in sport damages, steals the future of youth, athletes and sports, steals the future of sport. It damages sports clubs and federations, brings maladministration and misuse of resources, with the same factors constantly running, leaving no room for anyone else, drowning every possibility of developing sports. Corruption affects the distribution of television and other rights, ensures contractors, excludes other people from testing and offering, excludes unions, coaches, athletes and arbitrators from participation in the decision-making process. Corruption reduces persons, brings discounts in the moral code of principles and values, brings illegal trade in people who are in the field of sport, leading to the space they run in disrepute. Corruption damages the good name of sport and leads to a general question of the integrity of sports clubs and federations at national and international level. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] The answer to all of this comes to give today's bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport with its sixty three articles, in which it promotes substantial areas on various issues of sport, respects the credibility of sport. His basic philosophy is governed by transparency, equality, accountability, good administration and strengthening democracy at all levels of sport administration, as well as improvement in many issues of sporting interest. Starting the bill from Articles 1 to 24 comes to house and clarify the economic relations of professional sport. It is true that the setting-up of a professional sport committee as a legal person governed by public law, which is claimed as a kind of independent authority supervised by the Minister of Culture and Sport and equipped with every instrument of control, with wide powers of management and financial control, but also the possibility of imposing sanctions so as to effectively combat opacity and corruption. To date, there has been a legal framework that the committee could not function satisfactorily so that the sporting public limited company could have proper control over participating in category of championships, not because the will was lacking, but because it did not have the necessary tools. With the new framework, the Committee on Professional Sport will have wide responsibilities without tax and bank secrets. With the entrance of a platform to the control, all data relating to the controlled group is entered and with the new structure there is a possibility at every stage to thoroughly monitor the entry of money and to make the possibility to impose fines transparent. Everything will be covered by a framework of transparency. In order to dismantle the work of the professional sport committee on the acquisition of shares in a public limited company, the committee's permission will cover more than 5% of their share capital than 2% up to now. Continuing with Articles 25 to 30, this bill comes to broaden democracy, strengthening the participation and transparency of elections by the sports administration. To date various sports administrations at federations have often acted as a legacy baron, choosing which clubs will recognise the right to vote, excluding those who are not their mates and avoiding to organise races, so that the rest of the clubs do not acquire voting rights and by holding elections with electoral systems that intercept the body's vote, to exclude any opposition presence in the federations' administrations. However, for anyone who wants to be financed by the Greek people, the state must, by law, set clean conditions of administration, which will include a fairer and more representative electoral procedure by means of voting. And that's what today's bill does. It plunges democracy in the field of sport, which has always been the main pillar of our own policy and the sense of law. There was a frustration in the world that while he wants to participate and offer to sport, he constantly stays out of the procedures and is forced to move away. The interventions that this bill brings to the democratic function throughout the chain of sports administration by the sports club, the sporting union as the sports federation, are really hubic. A framework is created which does not allow minority groups to have no say, no rights, no representation. There is room for substantial opposition and more good administration. The electoral system is becoming fairer and more objective. Antiquities shall be held by means of a single ballot and a maximum crossing limit of 1/3 of the election seats or with separate ballots with the simple proportional electoral system. It is true that there were objections to the hearing of bodies on the electoral system, that it cannot work. Why, ladies and gentlemen, cannot it work in sport, where its object is to support talented athletes and the general development of the sport? Why don't partnerships arise that only sport has to gain from it? Let us begin to develop the culture of cooperation and become an example of sport. The bill, along with the simple analogues, establishes terms for the boards of directors of the federations. In other words, it puts a ceiling on the positions of responsibility, ending relationships that may arise because of a long term term term of office, with a final result of maladministration and administrative inefficiency. For executive members, a limit of two consecutive terms or four as a whole is set, which will have a positive effect on sporting life and will give an even greater incentive to people of sport for participation and action. The bill sets out rules that form the environment in which elections are conducted and the promotion of sports administration from the club to the federation, where it eliminates union-stamping phenomena that do not play a significant role and alter election results. It shall prohibit the participation of members in antiquities unless they have completed one year from the date of registration. The representatives of the club for the sports union and federation are elected by the general assembly, while we finish once and for all with the vote by a representative. The phenomenon of collecting authorisations stops here, with this bill. Each union comes the same. If he can't come, he won't vote. It's so simple. Finally, the large proportion of this bill in its democratic enlargement is the gender-1/3- quota in the ballots. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, despite the increasing participation of women in sport, the management of sport remains a male matter. Women are still under-represented in the decision-making bodies of sports institutions at local, national and international level. With this important gender equality measure, sporting leadership shows that gender balance in decision-making in the field of sport is very high on its agenda, as it is already one of the priorities of the National Gender Equality Action Plan. So, together with the 2014-2020 Strategic Actions and Council Directive 1701/138 on discrimination against women, we are dealing with the following: Firstly, by increasing the participation of women in sport, by achieving equal representation in decision-making, by achieving gender equality in training and education in sport, by eliminating gender-related violence in sport, by eliminating gender-related stereotypes in sport and by covering from the media. Why all this? Let us take a look at what is happening at European level in decision-making centres. At ministerial level, 27% of women. At government level, 40% women. At academic level, 20% to 44% of women. In universities, women participation from 10% to 36%. In sport as presidents, if you wish, in all sports organisations, women's participation reach 4%. Can you tell me how it is possible in the area where we have the largest, the largest participation of women, to under-represented women at such a low rate? Does the project have any difficulties? Of course it does. The gender quota is always a temporary measure until gender representation in the management of sport balances. Today female underrepresentation is dramatically low in the decision-making bodies of the sports institutions. Only at European level are women holding 14% in the Olympic Sports confederations, ranging from 3%, which is in Poland and reach 43%, which is in Sweden. So let's see what's going on in Greece. Greek Olympic Committee, Plenary Session: In the thirty-two members there is only one elected woman. Twenty-seven sports federations: Percentage of women in the boards of directors 14% and only 6% in the executive bodies. Would you, for example, like to see what happens to some federations and the percentage of women's participation? Rescue: 20 members, no woman. Fight: Ten three members on the board of directors, no woman. Basketball: Twenty-one members, no female participation. Eleven members, no women's participation. Canoe kayak: Eleven members, no women's participation. Cycling: Eleven members, no women's participation in the board of directors. EAW: Ten seven members, no women's participation in the board of directors. Man-made: Ten five members, where we have zero participation. So, ladies and gentlemen, something needs to be done. After this measure has been put in place, start applying it to members of sports administrations. And in the mid-term, they must encourage, support, take measures to promote women's participation in sports administrations and not wait for the last minute of the elections. Let's go down to amateur sport. The state has an obligation to finance it. However, he needs to know where each euro of taxpayers is going and how it makes use of the taxpayers' money, reassuring taxpayers that the state funding of amateur sport is intended to support sporting youth and not to enrich sporting players. We will not tolerate a single euro. Thus, under Articles 31 and 32, the financial management and accounting control of each amateur body, which receives annual funding of more than EUR 50 000, passes to the Inspectorate-General for Public Administration, who replaces the Court of Auditors of the General Secretariat of Sports and has broad control powers, but also the validity and independence of carrying out such audits, and an independent criminal offence is introduced to block it. In this way, the space of sport is thoroughly, quickly and efficiently controlled, so that, on the one hand, responsibilities are assigned to prostitutes who have broken public money and on the other hand do not fall into shadows on the unselfish factors that contribute catalyticly to the country's sports activities. Articles 33 to 45 provide for individual amendments to the sporting law, including Article 33, which establishes incompatible between persons who participate in or run amateur or professional sports teams and the management or main shareholder of any legitimately operating betting company. A key shareholder or partner shall be considered to be the natural or legal person who owns, in person or through adjacent shareholders of shares, more than 15%. This provision harmonizes the Greek legal framework with what is internationally applicable. For example, in England a betting company can fully control a group. The dismantling order was outdated. Now we have many bet companies in relation to the past and this provision restores an imbalance between the PPP and other betting companies, bringing about equality conditions, as it applies to all shareholders of betting companies with less than 15%. This limit is considered reasonable, taking into account both the needs of combating corruption and the right of free participation in enterprises and in the economic life of the country. Article 34 ensures the democratisation of representation in the plenary of the administration of the Greek Paralympic Committee. To date, the Paralympic Committee is appointed by the State Secretary responsible. With today's bill, all members are present, except as defined by the State Secretary responsible. Article 35 ensures the participation of homosexuals and foreigners with permanent residence in the country in the Greek-Hellenic inter-chamber championships and Cup matches, and for the first time is recognised and granted the right to participate in the above matches and third-class citizens residing in the country as beneficiaries or applicants for international protection. Article 36 abolishes the age limit of twenty-nine so that athletes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u243	As long as you can, please shorten.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u244	It's two, like I told you. In one day we can't make such a bill big. For a while, your tolerance and I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u246	The what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u247	In one day, a bill like that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u248	Yeah, that's a big bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u249	So, with the size of the bill, do you say, Mrs. Bakoyannis, that you are experienced, that time should go?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u250	Mr. President, I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u251	No, it's a meeting that had to be two. You got it together in one, and it's two speeches in one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u252	The evil is, when the suggestions are written, that we have the feeling that we have to read them all. All right, what to tell you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u253	Can't you break my word for me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u254	There's no extension here. It's a real fight. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u255	Article 36 abolishes the age limit of twenty-nine years, so that athletes who have achieved excellent discriminatory discrimination can be introduced into TEFAs or other HEIs of their choice by using the beneficial provisions at a later date. Articles 37 and 38 make an effort to combat hooliganism and sporting violence by introducing for the first time an innovation, that is, the possibility for the responsible prosecutors in the criminal prosecution to impose restrictive conditions against those accused of sporting violence, without waiting for the timely administration of justice, while offenders may commit new offences. In addition, strict sanctions are laid down for those who violate imposed conditions, as well as for those responsible for security in the fight. Articles 39 to 42 resolve any technical and practical issue of the licensing of sports establishments and of the conduct of sports meetings. No sports facility, regardless of size, will work unless it has all the necessary legal fitness and safety licenses, putting a definitive end to the arbitraryness and irresponsibility that led to the OAS's swimming pool in 2014, only ten years after the Olympic Games, because it did not have, he says, a licence. Article 43 anonymity sports companies may, following the authorisation of the Professional Sports Committee, finance the construction, reconstruction, repair or maintenance of sports establishments using transparent conditions which ensure both the public interest and the rights of third, natural or legal persons. We arrive at Articles 46 to 53, where issues relating to the functioning of the Philippi Union of Greece are regulated. To date, FEU has been allowed to operate in an outdated legal framework, with forced laws of 1937 and 1968, while the Code of Horse Riders has been launched for over forty years. No one has dared to change anything so far, thus allowing a legal person to operate authoritarianly so that it cannot ensure credibility, impartiality and transparency in Greek races. Those of us Members of Parliament who have been engaged in the hearing of the bodies have witnessed strong classifications between the two opposing parties, the EU on the one hand and those involved in the racing activity on the other. The situation between them had reached such a dead end in order to stop the horse racing activity since last December at the expense of the survival of the three thousand families and professionals who live from this racing activity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Therefore, the legislative intervention of the Minister of Sport demonstrates how necessary it is to restore legality and equal treatment in the world of horse racing and ensure the undisturbed and sustainable functioning of the horse race for the benefit of the sport and the families that are made available from it. This bill fully reforms the operation of Philippian Union of Greece, of FY, in such a way that the state does not really take any place. It finds the golden incision to the composition and functioning of the Board of Directors of the FMC, ensuring that the FMC, together with the representatives of the state, will have the six of the eleven parties, the concessionaire who invests in the area spending money cannot be ignored and legally participated with four members, and for the first time participates a representative of the owners of the horses. Consensus is strengthened, as the most important decisions require an increased 2/3, the composition of the members of the EU from eighty to one hundred, ensuring increased...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u256	You were clear, Mrs. Alonitou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u257	I'll be done in three minutes. It ensures the impartiality and independence of the Greek and members of the Sports Committee, as well as the effective...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u258	Mrs. Alonitou, I'll call Constantine to give a yellow card.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u259	Mr President, you are breaking the floor again at the moment. Can I go ahead? I'll be done in a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u260	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u261	Efficient supervision shall be ensured in the organisation of horse racing and racing bets. The state does not lose its rights, as the Minister controls the legitimacy of decisions, while the public interest is guaranteed by the continuation of the horse race in a democratic way which requires cooperation to ensure all parties. Of the other articles, one of the most important is Article 55, which solves a chronic problem for staff of sports associations and federations and their mobility. Sixty-seven employees are now no longer in the air as an obligation to classify them in the organic positions of the sports federations and where there are no corresponding vacancies or the existing positions are not sufficient, in equivalent personal positions. Finally, Article 57 upgrades the prestige of the Standing Committee on the Management of Violence, while accepting the request of its President, its members should be relieved of their responsibilities from their proposed recommendations to the Committee on Professional Sport or the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like to point out that sport has a significant economic and social impact, as it is the most popular activity in all social and age groups. So it is next, the provisions which are reflected in today's bill, which some of which we have waited for twenty years to become the state's law, to give a positive sign to the sports family, to society, to the citizens, but also to the economy of the country. I invite all of you Members, you who love sport, to vote on a bill that will benefit sport and society in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u262	Mrs Karamanlis has the floor. Don't jump half-hour, Mrs. Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u263	Of course he will. Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u264	Of course, huh?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u265	Of course, Mr President. Equality, concept, if any, which is rare lately.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u266	I see you president of the National Olympic Committee, Mrs Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u267	I will try, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u268	Here, Mrs Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has repeatedly announced the famous new sports law, which had set the bar quite high. The Greek sports community expected a comprehensive piece of legislation that would solve the key problems of Greek sport, would put an end to distortions that afflict him over time and would lay rules that would mark transparency, impartiality and merit. Mr. Minister, unfortunately, the treasure's carbon! You have been underneath the bar and your legislative initiative is far below expectations. This piece of legislation is the tombstone in the government account of the new sport law. You're presenting a bill of Columbus, and it's rusted. Another law has been put into consultation and another law we are discussing today. Fifty-one-five articles have been put into consultation and have lost their way to Parliament. You have invoked the frustration of the stakeholders, who have of course disproved you. Let's be honest, Minister. It was the most serious reactions and the disapproval of all the bodies that forced you into a ruthless retreat. However, you did not show any sense of consensus and convergence in this bill too. We have been discussing for a week and you have not adopted proposals from the parties, nor have you actually taken into account the opposition of operators on specific points. And we don't just say that. The Greek Olympic Committee tells you yesterday. The leading institution of Greek sport describes your bill as "grapes", Mr Vasiliadis, and the provisions of unapplicable. It appeals to the IOC and another blow to the image and the prestige of Greek sport is before the gates. And that's your achievement. It is the result of your intransigence and of the clandestineness with which you are legislating. I am presenting the ILO's communication in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The first chapter of the Bill relates to the Committee on Vocational Sport. We have heard no sign of self-criticism for the committee's full disdain over your days, because for a long time it was not working at all, as you did not appoint a president, to finally appoint the Vice-President and the Vice-President of the resigned President. And all this took you a few months to do it. You told us that this nonexistence was due to the fact that the committee did not have the tools. And you rushed after four years to give it to her. So what are you doing? You turn it into a legal person governed by public law without specifying the financial costs for its operation without an establishment plan. You're saying that you're doing this to strengthen her. You do add some responsibilities to the Committee on Professional Sport, such as the possibility of imposing fines and disciplinary proceedings, as well as the approval of building or reconstruction, maintenance of sports facilities belonging to the amateur club or other bodies. In reality, however, "Everything changes around and everything stays the same", because at the same time you hold for the Minister absolute and suffocating control. Because it is the Minister who appoints the members and the one who stops them for great reason, which is not clarified, and leaves room for arbitrary action. And since you said to us, Minister, that 'big reason' is a legal term, I am tabling you in the Minutes where it is stated that a great reason is a vague concept that is interpreted in due course. I therefore present to you the summary of a decision by the Ice Award number 1665/2014 for a very important reason, as well as what the Code of Administrative Procedure says. [[At this point, the New Democracy MEP Anna Karamanlis submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It is also stated that the Minister will not be able to give lead to the committee, which will be binding. It can, in other words, give non-binding. Do you think it's self-evident to create a window? We insist on our proposal for a composition of the committee following a public invitation with meriting criteria to ensure the maximum possible autonomy and independence of the committee. In order not to unload the committee from much work, so you write in the explanatory statement, you release the share transfer control to 5%, from 2% currently in force. And you're saying that this doesn't make a decisive difference to the company's shareholder composition. Do you honestly believe that five individual shareholders cannot influence it? And, above all, should we not control the origin of the money that comes into Greek sport? Does it make it easier, yes or no, for anyone who wants to launder black money by buying shares this regulation? I would also like to dwell on Article 22, which provides, not least, that without a certificate one can fight if he pays fines. What changed from the point of view of consultation with paragraph 10 of Article 12, the certificate of the Committee on Professional Sport was necessary to participate in the Championships, now it is almost and only involves fines? Minister, not only do you legislate that anyone who is illegal will pay fines, but that whoever pays the fines can continue to falsify and that does not refer to legality or equal treatment. It cannot, in other words, be 'whoever pays, plays' as expressed by the Minister. I am presenting to the Minutes and your interview in the presentation of the bill and it is from the newspaper 'AGEY'. [[At this point, the New Democracy Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the chapter on the functioning of unions, associations and federations, it introduces the restriction of terms, which we have told you we would like to support, even though the debate on the constitutionality of the provision avoids and is still awaiting it. Shouldn't you have already shielded your law with a relevant opinion, as we have repeatedly asked you? And as you put the restriction with the executive members, you leave an open window to unleash and degenerate. I come to the 30% crusade and to the extra-territorial lists. They are settings that stem from your ideological obsessions, but also a vehicle for your microparticipatory purposes. The mess you are trying to cause the self-government elections, you now want to transfer it to sport. Why is the footprint of the new system, when the unavoidable deadlocks arise, when decisions are blocked, initiatives will be put in place and the boards will fail? They have nothing to do with sports, but also sports practice. You're doing it because you're trying to partyly get a piece of the pie of sport power. You want party bandages and captains inside the associations of sports clubs. What you're going to achieve is bring in the introvert and turn federations into a field of haggling. We have tabled a specific proposal to you and we have not received a cross-check of fifty plus 1% for a single ballot. Illegality is also seen in the compulsory coverage of one third on the boards of directors from one sex. We also told you in committee that I myself have supported, with all my powers, the increase in women's representation in all decision-making centres and that I remain stable in my position, provided that there is substance and content and that there is no decision on the leg. He told us in disputed questions your rapporteur is obliged and anyone who does not comply will have consequences and insisted on what consequences there would be. You insist, however, that you do not give an answer to how the law will be implemented if there are no women. If you cannot, then, Minister, convince your rapporteur, imagine how far you are from persuading others. So it is not possible to legislate either with blessings or with fringes. And we risk getting to the point that women are appointed to the administrative boards as a parole role. In the criticism of the representatives of unions and federations from the general assemblies, we are told that it is a proposal from the ILO and that it exists in the Minutes. I am therefore presenting in the Minutes of the House the ILO memorandum on the bill, which supports exactly the opposite. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] As far as pay is concerned, we are in agreement with the Presidents of the federations, and we have already submitted you from the debate that preceded the proposal to extend to federations with own revenue, at least equal to the state grant. So we told you here to break this article - and I will come back to it - to allow us to vote on it. You also legislate with Article 31 to carry out an audit of sports bodies by the Inspector-General for Public Administration. We have categorically advocated the thorough control of every sporting body that is being subsidised from the first euro rather than from the 50,000 euros provided for in the bill. We have told you at the first meeting held in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. However, we must again highlight the weaknesses of the project and its problematic points. There are, therefore, opinions at national and European level that directly question that sports federations fall within the wider public sector and therefore fall within the competence of the general inspector. I give you an opinion from the Legal Council of the State and proposals from the Court of Justice of the European Union not to subject sports federations to the general government bodies. [[At this point, honourable Member Anna Karamanlis submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I don't know if all of this was taken into account, or if you didn't take it into account, because of ignorance or curiosity, or if the answer of the general inspector was a firework that would draw lights from the lack of control over your term of office. But you are at stake, as there is a visible risk that controlled bodies will seek to cancel the check and the possible findings. And I come to Article 33, to the bet shareholders up to 15% running business teams. So to justify the total arbitrary rate of 15% of the main shareholder, you have developed us with a reasonable bakalistica. So you have told us that you are taking a percentage for a procedure for a public limited company - completely irrelevant to what we are discussing - and you are telling us that you are dividing it by two and you are rounding it down. Where have you seen this model that lacks any logical interpretation? As I have developed to you in committee, the New Democracy's firm position is to vote against this article. But tell me: was that the urgency that you had to go to legislation on "TECHM"? There is - you know - the Prosecutor's conclusion, Mr. Vourliotis, which says that illegal betting in our country has taken enormous proportions and our economy is losing an annual income of 1.5 billion euros. Have you taken any relevant initiative? You brought us England, the most advanced football country. Does England have anything to do with the situation in our country? So I'll tell you what Cyprus has done for "TECHMA" and "bottoms". He imposed strict penalties starting with fines for the first file and arriving until deleting from the Federation's registries in the fourth file, with due regard for UEFA's data and without looking for any further evidence. With this, you should be concerned about "PRODUCT" rather than about what you bring and move and the finger on transparency. Incidentally, on 4 May 2018, we see - with a GGA press release - that you had a meeting with UEFA and SWR on the fight against manipulation of football games. It's been a year, no voice, no hearing! I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] In Article 36, it's too much...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u270	It's the NSA, it's not ours!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u271	I'm telling you what Cyprus did. Listen to me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u272	Whatever you say!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u273	Therefore, the Minister should not have unnecessary discussions if there is a self-interest. Not to have conversations about the photo, but to have conversations about the substance. That's what I'm saying. If there's a problem, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u274	Yes, but invoke the government. There's a self-defence, there's no autonomous. That's what you've done. You've confused the automobile.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u275	In Article 36, therefore, it is excessive and rather provocative nowadays, paid leave to members of federations, civil servants, in order to represent their federation to international bodies. Acting in a federation is not mandatory. Volunteering is also based on the availability of a tender. Furthermore, there is also an issue of unequal treatment, since a civil servant will be absent and paid, while another member working in the private sector will not be paid. We propose that only unpaid leave be allowed. There are also some provisions in the bill on violence which, as we have told you at the first moment at the first meeting of the Committee on Morphic Affairs, will be supported. I do not want, Minister, to give you the facts that have taken place lately. They tend to be routine. I think, however, that you will not question the fact that their frequency and acidity are now greater, while the occurrence of the episodes is different. They are often not related to the athletic event, but are carried out on this occasion. So sport-related violence is constantly transformed and not dealt with either by wooden convicts of the incidents or by a phone call to the prosecutor and 'we've made the obligation'. We have asked several questions - over thirty - but of course you never bothered to answer one. Mr Mavrotas also pointed this out to you. We have stressed the extent of violence in amateur categories, and we have called for the upgrading of sports violence departments and for the emphasis to be placed on prevention. And if you don't listen to us, Minister, listen to your predecessor, who yesterday's interview finds you a little loose in dealing with violence. So answer Mr. Kontonis who accuses you of reassurance and frustration and says that you are not applying his law on violence, your law, your own government, in May 2015. I'm filing Mr. Kontonis' interview with ERT so that we don't get misunderstood and blamed! [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above interview, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The Philippian Union, the FEU, the hippodrome has been closed since last December, after a lasting downward course, a course of degradation. Of course there are responsibilities for this. We heard from the concessionaire at the hearing of the bodies in the committee that the only reason why the horse race activity in Markopoulos has been suspended is the hostile attitude of the FY. However, we did not hear in the same hearing a word about the objections that a legislative initiative is to be adopted in favour of the concessionaire in the terms of the 2015 concession contract, no word on the racing development programme, which the contractor is obliged to present, in accordance with the concession agreement, which, until now, remains a letter unknown to the horse racing operators and to the public opinion. All this has been heard by institutions, not by us. We have heard the Minister assure us that the situation on the horse race dictated the legislative initiative that brought us under this draft law and that in its resolution there will be a solution to the problem of the horse race. But he did not explain to us how this would be done. According to the Minister, the change in the composition of the FEO Board takes place in order to make it more proportionate to the presence of the bodies according to the model of the English model, with which we are not opposed, but we are sure that the respective English power does not have the arithmetic power to block a decision that does not interest him simply by withdrawing his members from the meeting. The new composition of the FAO Board of Directors may block the decision-making process and only by the withdrawal of its representatives, as at least eight members are required in order to be a quorum in the FAO. The analogy, Minister, must be in favour of decision-making and not against decision-making. Ultimately, FEE is your tool, Minister. Your powers have been called upon to exercise. Do you think it will have the authority and the tools to exercise them with this quota on the Board and, in addition, with the removal from the Minister for Sport of the competence he had to control the decisions of the EU not only in terms of legality, but also in terms of feasibility? We don't think so. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like to make another comment on Rule 58 on the responsibility of the members of the ESRB. We consider it fair that they are responsible for fraudulent and serious negligence and against third parties and not just against the public, so that any person affected can exercise his or her constitutionally guaranteed right to be heard and protected. If you change it, we will vote for it. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, this bill confirms that you are legislating from sporting reality, with your priority not to solve problems, but to hide them under the carpet, to serve small-party purposes and to establish state intervention. Except that the recipe is now staggered and outdated and will not help you to be saved from the political shipwreck that comes. As the vast majority of society has rejected you, so you have turned your back and the sports community and will effectively send you to the margin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom ENIZELOS and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-one students and students and six school attendants from the Elementary Schools of Loutras, Source and Symminia Lesvos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Well, the reason for this is that the Deputy Minister, Mr. Tasos Petropoulos, has the floor for presenting an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u277	The amendments cannot be presented later, Mr President? The rapporteurs should first speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u278	Soon I will talk about an amendment. There's a serious matter. Can you allow me to say it? It's a couple of words. It's nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u279	If it's serious, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u280	This is the amendment with a general number of 1022 and a special 49. One provision concerns the abolition of printed health books, as we proceed to electronically serving the prescribing and misuse of the health data of insured persons. There goes the old system. We're not making booklets anymore. We announced it beforehand. The other provision concerns the abolition of a provision in place since 2010 that did not provide detailed periodic statements by employers who owed contributions to their employees. While the purpose of the provision was to force employers, it was eventually converted into a tax exemption for employers from paying contributions and a charge for workers at the cost of not having any insurance time, because the social security system rejected the detailed periodic statements of insurance of workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u281	Mr Paulakis has also asked for the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 395]] This is an amendment which, unfortunately, has not been possible to debate in our bill which has just ended, due to a delay in coming from the whole process. This is the amendment with a general number of 2023 and a specialist of 50. It is about a number of regulations on the EEA, which we had been asked about by colleagues such as Mr Kelles in the previous bill. Well, with the first article, taking into account the amount of the EOPY budget of 6.5 billion, the volume of employees of a thousand and over five hundred, the majority of the service places and, in general, the work done by EOPY, we upgrade the supply department of the agency, which compensates and consumables to insured throughout the country, at an address. We are also setting up an independent secretariat section of the Chair and a separate section of the Management Board in order to ensure that they function more effectively. That is the first paragraph. The second paragraph deals with the issue that has recently been created by the implementation of the new EMRP. The question of compensation is being addressed in the transition period that is being carried out and spent, but the electronic platforms were not completed for all benefits, so the submissions were made in the old way and the possibility of these costs being unnecessarily paid is being legislated. Slowly, all electronic platforms are running out. The majority have now entered into operation, but in the mid-term since the beginning of November, which started to apply, not all of them were ready. There was the old way of submission and we are actually giving the possibility of being able to compensate for these costs. The third paragraph...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u283	Have they been by a commissioner?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u284	It's all going through a commissioner. Mr. Athanasios, you're an old law officer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u285	Well, I'd like to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u286	I answer good faith, too. There's a commissioner inside the EPPY. Expenditure could not be submitted because it changed the way. It was submitted the old way, because the electronic platforms were not ready. That's the point. We couldn't help covering up some of those people. The third paragraph is to enable workers to be paid on-calls at the EEA Pharmacies, which we have also increased in number and have increased their working hours to serve some afternoon hours. There was a problem in how they're paid. We have made it possible for them to be paid. The fourth paragraph is a very serious regulation. It's a historical arrangement. It concerns the establishment, legal safeguarding of the capacity of the National Agency, the EEAS, to implement targeted preventive action for the oral and dental health of the minor population from six to twelve years old. For the first time, we legislate, beyond the public structures, having an EOPH grant of EUR 40 million from this year's increased spending limit of 100 million on the overall health system, to go ahead with the Panhellenic Dental Federation by signing a cooperation framework, which is ready to cover preventive and/or therapeutic care services for the whole child population from six to twelve years old. This care concerns dental control and instructions, detergentation, fluorescentation, based on the needs of preventive infarctions, export of negroes and infarctions in teeth with decay. For all these children who belong to this age will be provided by their parents with a voucher, which will be able to cash out with these dentistry work in all legal dentistry, based on the agreement with the Panhellenic Dentistry Federation. We are very advanced in this process. The framework for cooperation with the dentist federation has been prepared. This legislation also needed to be implemented in order to implement the provision of benefits in the new regulation which entered into force on 1 November. The other three paragraphs concern the strengthening and strengthening of the Social Security Institutions' Expenditure Control Agency, the well-known Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which, unfortunately, has been able to impose penalties only on doctors or officials. He was not able to enforce penalties by law to the providers who did something illegal. In other words, I should like to tell you one example - and it is important - that it could not impose penalties on the companies that, in cooperation with doctors and service providers, cost the EEAS for the suffrages from EUR 13 million in 2011 to EUR 53 million in 2015, but only to doctors. He couldn't force it on the companies. Of course, as you know, “both stones grind the wheat.” You can't just punish one stone. You have to punish the other one. That is the possibility of one of these arrangements. We are also underpinning the status of the anonymity of the auditors, of the DYPEVA inspectors who are being sent, because, you know, when the money warrants come out in someone's name, it is spreading who goes back to time and why. And thirdly, precisely because it has done a great deal of work in the last few years, we are essentially matching, we are raising the mandate of the Commander of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as well as the JHA in five years in order to really complete a huge task that has begun over the last two years. That is the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u287	That is not an amendment. It's a whole bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u288	You weren't present in the previous one. There were larger ones there!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u289	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u290	What's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, half an hour before the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u292	He said so, Mr. Javarra, the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u293	He said it. And because he said so, shouldn't we raise the objections that we should bring? Dialogue is done. Do you have any problems?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u294	Okay, you'll take the floor as Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u295	That's why I'm asking for the floor. So I say: How can the Minister come today and speak of a historically important piece of legislation, when this particular provision he tells us was able to incorporate it from yesterday when the debate on the bill was just over half an hour ago by Parliament? It was a bill from his ministry, the Ministry of Health, with dozens of articles, and he didn't even predict to incorporate it into this particular bill. So how, now, in an unrelated bill, in the sport bill, can we be informed about historically important legislative initiatives when they are carried out in turn and when they are carried out in such a precarious manner?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u296	Their importance is diminishing, you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u297	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u298	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u299	I would like a clarification from Mr Petropoulos in relation to the amendment on detailed periodic statements. We'll agree. That's right. This Article refers to periods of wage periods. There are employees of unsecured companies that are unsecured and uninsured. These people, how will they be covered? Will business workers be retroactively insured? I know there's been a discussion with Mr. Katsotis too, and you said that the insurance history would be depicted. The question is when it will be depicted. This must be clarified so that these workers can be covered and justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u300	Mr President, I have been asking for the floor for so long.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u301	Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u302	I would like to raise two points, Mr President. One is on the ground and I am not going to go into it now. I am referring to the amendment by Mr Polakis, who is allegedly fighting the interests, while he is washing them out with the arrangements he has put forward previously in his bill for companies, for medicines and for others. Mr President, the second issue concerns you. For Mr. Polakis and the essence of what he said, I will speak when I take the floor, because he told us he couldn't fight the interests while under the terms of the bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u303	He heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u304	Mr. Paulakis heard it. ‘It shall be overdue’. Your responsibility now. I am not referring to your personal responsibility, but, Mr President, I am referring to your responsibility as a Bureau which you know has been tabled on 12.54' - so it says here - at the time that a draft law of the Ministry of Health and despite the fact that it had not been introduced into the committees and despite the fact that the representatives of the parties, who have been aware of health problems, were here, did not put it to debate and bring it into an irrelevant bill, which will seem to be over the day. It is not possible for the House to continue to legislate, Mr President. This is a more serious matter. This government may have a few days or a few months' expiration, but do not dismantle the operation of the House. This is our request and appeal to you, because I inform you that we will take steps and see them if you continue to organise Parliament's legislative function. It's the last warning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u305	I think these dramatic tones are inconsistent with the process. You can do whatever you want. We have a democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u306	We'll see more, I mean!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u307	Please, be quiet. Mr. Paulakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u308	A very brief answer, Mr President. I heard Mr Kellas present in the previous bill, which I regret to say - because of the volume of amendments tabled in the previous bill, and Members and ministers, she could not be tabled yesterday. When the issue was raised for a few minutes, it had not been up in the system. There has been a involvement here with colleagues' disagreements. However, today a number of Vice-Presidents have called us on, for example, for the question of the payment of the Agency's providers under the new EMCDDA, for why we are not going to solve this problem. Here's Mr. Kelles telling us, who is one of the people who asked us this thing. It's not a surprise. It's three things. First of all, it's medical care. Secondly, it is the arrangement to pay the providers based on the EMS. We did not have one, we do not have one and we do not have one. So these to others, not me. And thirdly, it is the strongening of the HYDGSF in relation to the controls, so that it can punish not only natural persons, doctors or employees, but also providers. That's what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u309	Good, Mr. Undersecretary, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u310	You're changing the EYYY procurement system?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u311	Mrs. Bakoyannis, please. Mr. Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u312	Let me ask, Mr President, what to vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u313	Mrs. Bakoyannis, please. We're not having a conversation at the candlestick.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u314	Mrs. Bakoyannis, you are an old parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u315	Explain to me how I understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u316	Please, Mr. Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u317	The fact that you are doing a section, address or sub-direction has nothing to do with whether the provisions which have been voted on in other laws, for example in the case of public tenders and public procurement, are applicable to a body. Just the volume of work requires a level of address. You know what, Mrs. Bakoyannis? It's 6.5 billion euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u318	EEAY's gonna do alone competitions. That's what you're adding.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u319	Why doesn't Bakoyannis make a big hospital now for commission? It does.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u320	Come on, Mrs. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u321	I want to understand, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u322	Mrs. Bakoyannis, how is it going to happen now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u323	It's another thing if the department's office, department or address, and another thing with which rules it operates. Don't mess it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u324	Mr. Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u325	In Mr Synthraki's question, the answer is that all the charges - all retroactively - are entered in a contributory act and are imposed on employers who have not paid them. What I am proposing today is to abolish an inefficient instrument, which the 2010 legislator perhaps thought would put pressure on the employer. You are aware, too, because you have asked yourself in the past, because such a provision is maintained, which ends in the end is to relieve the employer of making periodic statements on the insurance of workers. There were people who worked without insurance, without health, and we had to resolve this. That's what we're doing now. It does not mean exempting the contributions due. On the contrary, this is maintained. I imagine it was understood by you too, Mrs Bakoyannis, because we are doing this. You will, I imagine, agree that it must go ahead. As far as books are concerned, it's an anachronism. We don’t have to keep books and get people to the tails sealing booklets with a picture you don’t even recognize the beneficiary. Everyone's being served electronically now. This is the great change that we bring to the public administration with electronic services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Kelles, this is over, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u329	Only thirty seconds, Mr President. In fact, this morning I pointed out in my speech that there is a gap in the clearance of payments of clinical rehabilitation centres and physicotherapists due to the joint ministerial decision issued by Mr Polakis with effect from 1-11-2018. The quarter from 1-1-2018 to 31-1-2019 cannot be cleared for all of them. It had to put an amendment which I mentioned this morning in my speech to the vote. In fact, Mr. Paulakis said that I was right and would bring her to the next bill. However, this is part of the whole amendment, which of course was accompanied by other changes. She was very welcome because there really is a huge issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u330	So do we. Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Mr President. According to the amendment with a general number of 2009 and a special 48, which concerns the retention of dividends income, the tax is reduced from 15% to 10% for the tax year 2019 and in the coming years. With regard to the amendment of a general number 2005 and a special number 46, I would like to say that these are regulations concerning the Independent Public Revenue Authority. The first part has to do with responsibility. There is an arrangement for the responsibility of both the officials and the commander and board of the management of the Independent Public Income Authority. It aligns the existing specific liability framework, which these persons bring with other relevant audit services, such as the Ministry of Finance Investigation Directorate, and aims to work under security and to achieve the objectives assigned to them. However, I would like to point out that this is not a general discharge. On the other hand, criminal liability is still established for those persons when they do so by fraudulent means, in order to confer themselves or on another illegal property, to harm the public or other, in the event of breach of the confidentiality of the information and information obtained in the performance of their duties. Furthermore, with regard to civil liability, the framework is in line with other relevant regulations and in a way that safeguards the interests of the public. The second part relates to mobility and clarifys the procedure for the secondment or transfer of officials between the Independent Public Revenue Authority and other bodies either by the Ministry of Finance or by other bodies. The latter is also concerned with the job assessment of the ADI and already by the founding law of the ADI has been given the opportunity to develop systems of grading and service development that are better suited to its needs and objectives. This provision is not intended to amend the specific possibility but to clarify the context in which the ADP is able, on objective criteria, to assess jobs, not employees. It concerns the contours of positions, as we all know. I would like to point out here - so that I do not take the floor again and then - that I will table a legislative improvement. In the sixth paragraph of the second amendment, the word'requirement' is deleted. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u332	Thank you. Mr. Army, would you agree to speak after the next rapporteur?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u333	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u334	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty American students and two teachers from the Penn State and Bucknell University. The House welcomes you. Welcome to the Greek Parliament! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Kefalidou, rapporteur for the Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Secretaries, ladies and gentlemen, let us take a look at the timeliness of this sport bill. So while we are talking here about this draft law, which concerns democratisation in sport, in Piraeus there is a great stir with your camels. Behind closed doors, absent from everyone, without consultation and without dialogue with local society and institutions, your Government plans to declare almost all the Piraeus archaeological site. I inform you that, despite the cancellation of the debate at the Central Archaeological Council, the Change Movement has made a reference and now presents a topical question, assessing the negative effects that such a development will have, not only in the daily lives of the citizens, but also in the development potential of the region. This is an indelible print of democratisation. You're always drunk, aren't you? At the same time, the world is urging from the unprecedented statement by my SYRIZA colleague, who proposed to the provocative Turkish Member an honest compromise, something similar to what the government has done with northern Macedonia. The strange thing isn't that a SYRIZA MEP says that. Remarkably, they are SYRIZA's official position! In this extreme atmosphere, therefore, the Minister comes with the sports bill that he believes "will change a page in sport". He said the Undersecretary: "The new sports bill will give us the weapons to our patronage against violence." And it comes this weekend and we are living the serious incidents with complications, injuries, damages of citizens' assets, lawlessness, diversions, invasion of craniards with clubs in a racing area that plays a women's team and on the stands they are mostly women's children. Minister, the expression of your disrespect for the incidents, especially when it seems that the issue is gigantic, is respected, but it is not enough. So is the intention of the state that, as it says, 'we will not let the few impose their law on many'. And that's not good enough. It's not enough and it's not convinced, because it doesn't even sound honest. The Prime Minister and the party that adopted "soft-cattered stalkers" and lets the center of Athens in the chaos of lawlessness, the Romanians perpetuate, the bachalakis make glasses of nails and, at the same time, proceeds to prevent citizens from entering the Yannitsa, not to mention the image of his executives. The party that was man-made, went up to power, ruled with a tool for polarization, division and violence sprinkled with a lot of sense of "fair rage" and indignation, no one is convinced. You have expressed your wish to see the committees as large a consensus as possible so that when the bill is passed we can give a signal that we recognize the problems and we are willing to give solutions together. The role of Members is focused on the right and integrated legislation and its predictions, so that the necessary tools can be put in place so that we can address the issue of violence. But can you explain to me how you can ask for consent and at the same time come to deceive the parliamentary procedure? How can we discuss any bills, and of course also about sporting violence, and you choose parallel, overlapping, irrational procedures to discuss them? How does the self-evident attempt to find common places between parties on common sense, so that we do not end up exhausting and exhausting the citizens in sterile controversy, you are the first to degrade it? Don't take it personally, Mr. Secretary, but the government you represent is the one that cancels you! I regret to say that we have seen no attempt to change the hosting establishment in this bill. You admit, even indirectly, that you have not found a way to combat violence in the courts. So how can we improve the disappointing picture that we see every time there is a small or large struggle? We are proposing that you establish closed fan groups, as is the case in all European countries. And because through the draft law, the position of SYRIZA and your Government in relation to sport is reflected in the fact that it may also be one of the latest bills that your government will bring into this area, give us the opportunity to present you with an aspect of our proposal as a Change Movement. Sport law must provide the general framework for strategic choices in sport, leaving the scope for handling the specific issues in the relevant sports federations. That's what we think. These have special knowledge, as well as the experiences required from the developments in the field of the sport that they manage and are able to operate more effectively in terms of functional, racing and developmental issues. Furthermore, they have the flexibility and speed of dealing with disputes that often arise between natural and legal persons active in each sport. Efforts to increase state control through a piece of legislation eventually creates a chaotic unpredictable legislative landscape that does not serve sport. You said, Minister, that you want to change a page in sport. Well, that's not how it works! It's not a state of law, it's not an ideology. Modernising sport's legislation wants breath, it wants thought outside the triumphant, it wants inspiration, it wants goals and, of course, a minimum confidence in those who are called upon to implement what we are voting on. It's a risk. But this is how it is in democracies. A small example that would mark the state's fresh air in sport would be the introduction of a system of measures to highlight the athletic talent of young athletes, their support and facilitation for systematic and uninterrupted racing participation. A legislative framework that would stumble on everything that young children, talented young children, have to face a daily life very difficult. We don't have to discover the wheel. Sportsmen say so themselves. Here's what Chichipas says about the way he found him to finish school. He was forced to go to a foreign school organization offering online courses in high school classes. You think it's hard to make an Internet school? We could use the experience and know-how of our university institutions, which have already developed distance education and are planning curriculums of modern and Greek education. From constantly fighting excellence, give alternatives, give the perfect ones a choice. High-level adult athletes could develop a package that would secure them financially, at least in the minimum living conditions, in order to continue the high level of sport and championship. When you give prizes, when you congratulate either Milto Tedoglou or my fellow citizen, Kostas Duvalides, you know that behind them there are families who have bleeded. There is a great sacrifice on the part of all these children, which we are naturally all rejoicing together today, but they are their perseverance, their dedication, their endurance, towards an inadequate state. Let's go now and say a little bit of a bill, which I think as far as it's already degraded, when there's the announcement of the Greek Olympic Committee that says "take it back". I won't tell the reasons. They were analysed by the previous rapporteur of the New Democracy. All this is bells, Minister. I don't know, of course, how much you're worried about and how much you're worried about. So let's go ahead and see some aspects of the bill. In the first part you speak of the Committee on Professional Sport. Professional sport is evolving. So the legislator, rightly thinking, proposes the existence of a committee that controls and prevents phenomena, phenomena of lawlessness, black money and all. You are replacing the existing committee with another. This alone is a confession of failure, a confession of failures in the functioning of the existing one. You recommend a legal person of public law, the Committee on Professional Sport and dress it with the cloak of the independent authority. But you only live in the cloak. No one can convince. How is the independence of the committee guaranteed in practice - a question you did not answer - when it is subsidised by the State? When the members of the board of directors are appointed by the Minister and much more ceased by him in due course, on the blurred grounds of the great reason. And since you are a law-approved, you know perfectly well that where the invocation of the "big word" begins and they open up questions of interpretation, that is where independence ceases. Besides, we've lived through it all along. SYRIZA and independent authorities are concepts incompatible. There are only when you can and enforce control by your own government. This is the government's regular tactics, because the state and government are identified. It's a political position. Reverent. But say it clearly and don't use concepts that you don't believe. A characteristic example is Article 6, ‘Working of Board members’. The bill stipulates that members of the committee enjoy full personal and operational independence and then - you say - do not receive binding instructions from government or administrative bodies or from any other natural or legal person. What independence are you talking about? Can they be instructed, but not binding? What does that mean? You are imposing on the other hand an uncontrolled, huge bureaucracy. Our comment permanently on all these complex shapes is that bureaucracy helps hide everything we don't want to say out loud. And what you do not want to say out loud is that the purpose of the provisions for the Committee on Professional Sport is its absolute control by the Minister, perfect and dash! Very democratic! The failure to provide the staff of the new body, the possible fees, the issues of direct awards, and the structure of the Committee on Professional Sport itself raises questions about the effectiveness of its operation. That's probably one of your last priorities. It doesn't seem like you're interested. However, what is disturbing is not only the attempt to control the new body with an independent authority. It is annoying the straightforward devaluation of both our intelligence and our citizens. It is not possible for the Committee on Professional Sport to be substantially transformed into a body which imposes fines on all scientists. The proposal of the Change Movement is the revenues of this committee from fines and whatever other sources, to be reimbursed. One party to go directly to the federations as an additional funding and the rest, through the General Secretariat of Sport, should be exploited to finance the sports logistics infrastructure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And we move on to Articles 25 to 32 on sports federations. All the problems and the sufferings of the area have emerged here. I will tell you that this is timeless and not just in your days. But you come with the famous gender quotas, with the terms of births, the representations of the two sexes, the limited crossroads, the electoral systems of simple proportionalness, and all of this, and you are making an intense state of affairs. It observed it almost all the players. The characteristic is what the Secretary-General of the EGF says and this - as you know - creates problems. Article 25 refers to the quotas of the sex. I think - there is homogenously - that the approach in theory can be excellent, but in practice, we have too many problems and you know that. It is another thing to talk about candidates and other positions on board board boards for seven or eight thousand sports clubs across Greece. We believe that the compulsory participation of 1/3 of the representatives of the other sex, especially in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, is problematic and will lead to administrative deadlocks, as due to the limited number of participation, many unions will be unable to elect quota boards. We therefore propose that the law should remain in force, i.e. at least 20% of the members' seats in the board of directors should be occupied by the candidates of one of the two sexes provided that there are twice as many candidates. We agree that the guidelines from the European Union are that there should be women's participation and we need to find a solution. But what you are proposing, we believe it will not be a solution. It leads to dead ends. And as a woman I say to you that we do not have to argue about either the effectiveness or the skills available to women, which is why we want to try, through this provision, not to make this whole story of quotas a simple wishlist. Because one thing you are not telling us is what will happen if there are no candidates or if they are less than the lower threshold for one sex. Have you thought of anyone taking the view that this is how we will go to temporary management committees, others that there should not even be participation in 1/3, which is considered compulsory because it is a provision of forced law? That's why we're asking you to make it clear to the law what's going on. In Article 26, in the antiquities, you raised the matter at previous meetings. For reasons of principle, you know it, there can be no interference in the self-interest of primary unions. I would once again tell you to consider the proposal of the EGF. If it is simply proportional, or if it is a single ballot, it cannot be judged on the way from antiquities and at the last minute. It must have been decided by the General Assembly and as a statutory provision to have an increased presence and an increased majority, at least 3/4, and this must be done there. The electoral system must be known before the elections are called. Elections cannot be announced without being clear about what electoral system we are going to go to. The rights of minorities are respected, but the seven unions are too minority. It takes a lot of attention because, if the law comes into force as it is, it will lead to adventures of objections and problems that will make an eye. In Article 27, quota restrictions sound good at first reading, but you do not tell us what will happen in practice if there is no interest or intention of submitting a candidate. Then what? Question: How do all these intervention arrangements fit in the administrative issues of the Autonomous Sport Federation with what you have to say about the democratic modernisation of federations? Do you realise that what you are proposing is a strong restriction on free democratic election? The imposition of a crusade of up to 30% of the election posts is clearly indirect and restrictive of the declaration of free will of elected Members. You create ambiguity about the legal training of the ballot and in the case of women refusing to stand. Inadmissible we consider Articles 29 and 30 to be Articles 29. In Article 31, the issue of the Inspector-General for Public Administration is that it is a positive action and that the effective control of the legality of a body that bears all the guarantees of knowledge and experience of effective control, as much as it often creates additional obligations for sporting bodies, particularly in terms of formality and compliance with procedures, has a long-term benefit that is essential to everyone, but above all for sports clubs. In Article 33, the provision, despite the explanations you have given us, cannot take the retrieval of the service out of it. The modification you bring frees from any coma of participation in the board of UAEs, defining a headline shareholder's headline board in a betting company of 15% or less. There is no ban on employment anymore. We understand what you have said in your explanations. We understand that you are telling us that this is true abroad. But we want to note that despite the fact that there are no angels anywhere, in our country in particular, there has not been a strong institutional framework of rules that creates the necessary culture so that such a provision can be applied safely. Article 35, extremely interesting, I think that it comes and captures what the Olympic ideal is trying, that is, sport without discrimination for minors and adult foreigners living in the country. We believe, however, that it has a void, and that is why we tabled Amendment 2006/47, and we propose the possibility of registering foreigners or stateless persons in sports clubs by presenting a permanent residence permit in the country. In Article 42 you define the sports meeting. But we recommend the abolition of paragraph 4 because it creates great side effects for mass sport, for those involved occasionally, but also for those taking part in sport throughout Greece. I think you know - you have been informed - but we have to table in plenary a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. It's Case C-49/07 of the Grand Chamber...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u336	And that's what we're finishing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u337	...of July 1st 2008. It concerns a difference between the Greek State and the Motorcyclical Federation of Greece, chaired by Professor Vasilis Skouris. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Harula (Harula) Kefalidadou, presents the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What did he say? It has therefore decided that Articles 82 and 86 prohibit a national provision which grants a legal person a competition, in the case of a motorcycle, and which concludes in that respect sponsorship, advertising and insurance contracts, the power to give assent to the applications for authorisation for the purpose of organising such competitions, without that authority being subject to restrictions, commitments and controls.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u338	Mrs. Kefalidou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u339	In the light of this binding decision for Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u340	Precisely, in this light, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Court of Justice of the European Communities...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u342	You started with foreign policy and it is only natural that you should deal with the articles when the time runs out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, are you judging my speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u344	No, I don't censor at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u345	Thank you very much. How wise is it to legislate against decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Communities? This provision must be withdrawn immediately and we must not be humiliated as a country by our sloppy legislation. Then, and the rain of amendments, I will not go into health because it is unacceptable anyway. But I see the Deputy Minister of Culture. Two days ago we were here, Mr. Secretary? And now we see that you are legislating - otherwise you do not know - on issues relating to the Ministry of Culture, on the subject of Europe's sponsorship of cultural capital and you are referring to Elefsina. Do you know what I'm suggesting? Because Mr Paulakis really thinks that what this government is legislating is of historic importance, so continue to legislate only through amendments. After all, you have devastated every concept of parliamentarianism, every concept of sound legislature. Keep going like this, because besides dismantling what we have to date as a parliamentary morale, these are fine letters for you, and so I close by saying that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u346	In fact, we are also dissolving the concept of time here from the Bureau. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u347	We're on an extension. They've spoken twenty-seven minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u348	Where'd you get the extension from?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u349	I will not speak again, Mr President. You've compiled the procedure if I'm not mistaken. We have a second, don't we?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u350	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u351	You're dissolving the process. I'll say what I have to say. We think that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u352	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u353	Mrs. Bakoyannis, do you say that instead of helping out a little?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u354	You are not helping, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u355	Mr President, you are not helping her out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u356	Aren't we helping? We've given ten more minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u357	Let me tell you how we are placed in the bill. We think your bill... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Would you excuse me, ladies and gentlemen? I know you don't want to hear it, ladies and gentlemen. You're about to vote on it all. As long as they have a SYRIZA seal! We believe, then, that by your bill, amateur sport is perpetuated and sports clubs are put to the fore. The sports law you brought doesn't find us in agreement. We are voting against at first reading, considering that it will create more problems than it will solve. Thank you very much. Your tolerance for dialogue is an excellent sample! Keep it up! Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u358	In fact, the Deputy Minister of Culture, Mr. Army, has the floor to present the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I will present the three amendments tabled by the Ministry of Culture today. I would like to say, in reply to Mrs Kefalidou, that I, too, would not like these amendments to come today. They weren't ready the last week that was the bill, yet they matured within the week and in a bill from the Ministry of Culture we chose three specific arrangements, to see what it is to understand that we probably shouldn't have this whole debate. I am referring to the amendment under the general number 2025 and a special number 51 tabled today. The first regulation concerns the European Capital of Culture, i.e. the bodies set up by the municipalities to claim and then host the institution of the European Capital of Culture. Obviously in this practical example here as the Capital of Culture of Europe 2021 is Elefsina. These entities, such legal persons shall be added to the entities which receive cultural sponsorship. And what does that mean? That their donors have the tax benefits of donors of cultural sponsorship of other actions. It is so simple and is done in the context of strengthening the effort that the work of the European Capital of Culture can progress very forcefully. The second regulation concerns the refugee homes of Alexandra Avenue. Recently, the Central Council of New Monuments adopted its rehabilitation study. We are ready to proceed with the restoration and re-use of the uses provided for in this complex. There's a problem. There is a property fragmentation that does not allow the application to be lodged on the building licence. What can be done is only one, what was approved by the Central Council of New Monuments. There's nothing else to be done there. Therefore, with this amendment, since 66% of the co-owners of Alexandra's refugee residences agree, the building permit will be lodged on behalf of all, in order to proceed with the restoration of the monument. Obviously, behind this provision is the great involvement of the Region of Attica, which intends to go ahead with the project. So this arrangement unlocks the rehabilitation of refugees in Alexandra The third regulation relates to the Cinema Centre and essentially adds to the financial instruments of the Public Investment Programme. Let us say that the government has already arranged for various incentives to attract film investment from abroad, particularly from the tax and cash rebate systems, which are automated. In all the countries of Europe there are cinema centres which, with specific funding under a specific framework, are selective, as we say, finance domestic cinema production.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u360	We've always financed the Cinema Center.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u361	Not on the basis of a Public Investment Plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u362	Why do you need the Public Investment Programme? You have so many financial tools for the Cinema Center.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u363	Obviously, we also want to use this financial instrument. We consider cinema to be an important area of the cultural economy. Investments in cinema production have been a very large multiplier, and this has shown studies by the EEEE since 2014 and is therefore a real financial instrument that will bring jobs and growth to the country. That's the setting. You can place on whether you agree or disagree. I would also like to refer to the issue of Piraeus, which was raised as an important issue. Mrs Kefalidou has just left the Chamber, but since the matter has been raised, the Ministry has to give an answer. Very briefly, I should like to say that in a decision of the Port Development Committee, the masterplan of PPA investment has come up with a condition that this masterplan should be examined by the central councils of the Ministry of Culture. Let us comment here that the decision of the Port Planning Committee, the ESDC, has adopted an objection to the region's stakeholders for various investment projects that exist within it. Imagine the Ministry of Culture to approve the mall that no one wants to be. Obviously, that's not going to happen. So we cannot selectively use these decisions, just one card, one more. The masterplan is a spatial regulation, and under the archaeological law, in order to be legally approved and subsequently standing, it must have been preceded by the archaeological law 3028/2002 that the examination, delimitation of areas which exist in antiquities. Antiquities exist in the area where the PPA masterplan is developed and in Salamis, where, however, these areas are demarcated as archaeological sites from the past. In the region of Piraeus there has been no delimitation of the archaeological site, apart from some very old sermons that do not cover all antiquities. On this basis, the Ministry of Culture set the same day to examine the masterplan and the declaration, a model that has been implemented last year, in 2017, if you remember about the Greek and the best solution was found, despite all the inappropriate noise that had been in the entire period. Let us say, let us make it clear that this proposal for a declaration - delimitation does not include protection zones, will not bring any restriction to building. It is the demarcation of institutions of an area that has antiquities and we know it has antiquities. The area of this area will be examined and approved by the Central Archaeological Council. Let's say in Greek we had the exact same case. Part of the investment, but also part of the urban fabric, were included in the declaration made. A year and a half after that declaration there has been no problem either in the city or in the investment. If KINAL means the criticism it has made, it must bring about an amendment of the archaeological law here in the House, which says that when spatial investment plans are approved, the delimitation of archaeological sites should not be considered. There can't be a law and we can do what we don't see. There is, and we didn't bring him that law. This law has existed since 2002. If, therefore, we consider that this law prevents investment and development, that an amendment be tabled from Opposition, that it should be debated, that everyone table their views and that the obligation to examine demarcation areas of archaeological interest should be abolished before spatial investment arrangements are adopted. It's just things. For once, we will recall that the preached archaeological sites exist in many urban centers throughout the country, with a leading example in Athens. At the same time, we say that the declaration of archaeological space in Athens, which exists, does not create restrictions on construction and heights and say that the declaration of archaeological space in the area south of the Acropolis is not enough and we must have additional restrictions, we must reduce construction and heights. At the same time we cannot say that the declaration is a problem for investment. I would like to close by saying this. We obviously all agree that the protection and promotion of cultural heritage only have added value to both investment and the city, and I propose that we unite all our forces to move forward with the programme of the Piraeus Cultural Coast, which is the real problem in this story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u364	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, thirty-seven students and students and four teachers attendances from the Gymnasium of Perama Ioannina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, Mr Gregos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be in my time. Of course, you also tabled a number of amendments in this bill. We have already heard three or four ministers talk about amendments concerning detailed periodic statements, the so-called SGPs, up to booklets and health issues. Indeed, Mr President, we are starting to discuss a very important bill from the Ministry of Sports, but before the end of the meeting we are only talking about the amendments, and of course we are escaping from the point of view of which we started. Of course, this must stop. But I do not understand, since you have clearly said to every ton that the elections will take place in October, why you are bringing so many amendments and bills at this storming pace. Unless you're lying to that, but we don't question you, we know what you're saying is true. I shall start with a subject related to the Ministry of Culture and Sport. In an auction, therefore, the oath of Kolokotronis and the Peloponnese Senate. It's a newspaper post. The oath of Theodoros Kolokotronis and the members of the Peloponnese Senate to act together for the salvation of the country and to leave aside their personal interests, represented in a document with their signatures on October 16, 1822. Secondly, a ninema with twenty-six original photographs of the most important photographer of the first Olympic Games, Albert Mayer, one of the nine rescued whites that offered as a gift to personalities, and the Great Charter of Europe designed by the Anthony Gazis in Vienna in 1801, whose only known is another copy. If that is the case, it is shameful and disgraceful and all for a few thousand euros. We still have a bill of sports between so many others that have been passed by the Greek Parliament, another bill that we have long expected, much more complete and much more detailed, a bill that would provide solutions to the enormous problems of sport. The question that exists in all of this is this: Are the issues of Greek sport resolved? Is corruption arousing Greek sport and, in particular, football? Is sport violence, land violence, violence among fans and sports actors being fought? In this draft law, in our view, the existing bad texts are repeated and they are not corrected. Some articles may move in the right direction, but they are not enough to give substantial solutions to chronic problems and the pathogens of Greek sport. In the proposed draft law, among others, the Committee on Professional Sport is recommended with wide powers of management and financial control and sanctions. That committee shall replace the existing Committee under Article 77 of Law 2725/1999. Another committee, therefore, has worked and operated for so many others. The question is what is this committee called on to do differently? Another structure with members who are in fact appointed and proposed by the Minister, a committee which is all set up by the Minister, with resources, remuneration, funds, project awards to scientific and non-cooperatives, and another structure to enable the SYRIZA's "locals". The Committee on Occupational Sports is, in fact, becoming powerful, since it can do anything. But problems continue. Problems such as land violence, corruption, complexity, opacity, the degradation of amateur clubs, incomplete or dangerous sports facilities, illegal betting and much more. As far as what we consider to be top, it is about the violence on the ground. We also told the committee that, although the phenomenon is not new, it is not new, but in the context of the more general lawlessness in the country, the phenomenon tends to take uncontrolled proportions, and at intervals we are looking for the causes, the guilty, the complaints, which create such situations with unforeseen consequences, absolutely condemnable. I also mentioned to the committee that there are other clubs of friends and other organised troublemakers who create these situations. We must not confuse these and squeeze on fans with certain specific turbulent elements. In addition to prevention and repression measures, care should be taken on this issue in the field of education, where young people are breast-feeding as fans, professionals or amateurs, and of course we should draw attention to the role of parents and their own behaviour in some cases, which do not help. I want to ask a question. What about this VAR system that we expect to settle on Greek fields? It is a tragic difference in the specific issues between Greece and Europe. The picture of landfills in European countries, where everyone goes with their family, is indicative. Giving the opportunity, we congratulate many of the important recent distinctions between Greek and Greek athletes and sports to coaches, assistants and the family environment. Fortunately, it is many times that sport has made us proud, but it should not be for different politicians to rush to steal something from the metal shine only in successes, when many sports spaces are really in a tragic situation. I shall refer to specific articles of the bill as long as I can. I am starting with Article 2 on the seat of the Committee on Professional Sport. We would prefer it to be somewhere in Macedonia or Thrace and not in the Attica region, for good reasons. In Article 20, reference shall be made to events or statements of nationalism. As I said to the committee, you should know that whatever you do, no matter what you say, some banners decorating many Greek fields and writing with huge letters that "Macedonia is one and it is Greek" express us and the Greek people and certainly, as I said, you cannot make thousands of preventative appeals of dissidents, nor, of course, punish an OAE or OAE because of it. Of course, in cases where there are certain slogans with clear inducement to violence, as we have seen from your own children, there will also be related coverage. It is difficult, of course, for you to attend some sports events for good reasons, but you should also know what is going on in these events. With regard to Article 35, you are attempting to legitimize in your well-known wicked way thousands of illegal immigrants, as your idealism demands. Imagine, in other words, an Ethiopian - they run a lot - running in a race without being registered in a club or club, without having the necessary papers, ending first and proclaiming it and pan-Hellenic. On the contrary, there should be special care and care for children - athletes from multiple and third families. Just yesterday from the Step of the House, the executive Prime Minister spoke about the integration of immigrants into the Greek society in order to solve the demographic problem. Here, of course, comments are unnecessary. Many of the articles in the bill are blurred, they have ambiguities and shortcomings and too many injustices, while state control and control by the relevant minister dominate. In Article 4 we vote 'in the same way' as the members of the committee are effectively appointed by the relevant Minister and allow a member of the board of directors to be appointed for up to two terms, that is to say, eight years. In Article 5, which relates to the impediments and incompatibility of the members of the board of directors, we are ‘against’ as they may be extended, but they should be completely excluded from the scope of persons who have a share ratio in any company that is involved with a sports anonymous company or other sports club. In Article 8 on the remuneration of members of the Board of Directors, we vote against 'in favour', since their remuneration is determined by a joint ministerial decision, which means that the co-legislative ministers can do whatever they want with regard to the level of the remuneration of members of the Management Board, which in general gives rise to questions of opacity. We've been over this. I come to Articles 25 to 33. Article 25 does not stipulate what happens if so many members cannot be gathered from a friend for practical reasons. In Article 28,'stamp' phenomena should be avoided without activity. There's enough of that. The hypocrisy of an entire political system in relation to the bet and the factors involved in the administration of sports clubs and associations should be emphasised in Article 33. Articles 39 to 42 regulate the licensing of sports establishments and the conduct of sports meetings by means of their classification into categories according to their type, outdoors, closed or special facilities. It is not just the licensing process but also the regular checking of the suitability of the installations by regional or municipal committees. There have been too many accidents and we have reported them and recorded them. On Philip of Greece, we have said that we are on the employee side, but we have no confidence, because you have not given any samples to the way in which certain provisions are implemented. We obviously do not need another bill, which is to be added to a series of legislations that have been practical to date in doubt. We want sport for all Greeks. We want compulsory sports education for the Greek youth, with the choice of individual or group sports from the first classes. We want immediate access to decent sports stadiums for all Greeks, a subsidy for municipal sports organisations aimed at cultivating a sporting spirit and of course practical support for Greek athletes' championship. I was recently attending a conference of sports sciences, involving deans and representatives of unions and bodies, and in which they expressed their opposition to this bill. I am also presenting the resolution of this committee on the Minutes. I am also presenting myself to the Minutes and the resolution of the Hellenic Academy of Physical Education, which is also very important and must be taken into account. [[At this point, the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Antony Gregos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] We are voting against the bill, mainly because we cannot legitimise an illegal government, a government that has no popular legitimacy, a government that betrayed our Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u366	The rapporteur for the JRC has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin with the amendment - a challenge for the people, a provision of intimacy that confirms the SYRIZA Government's anti-grains and the dirty work it undertakes on behalf of business groups. I am referring to the amendment by the Ministry of Finance which provides for a 10% reduction in the tax rate on dividends for industrialists, big owners and shipowners, i.e. their profits. At the same time, the government has agreed to the extra tax-paying from EUR 8,600 to EUR 5,600, plundering people's income, maintaining the tax on employees at 22% of the first euro, forcing even the unemployed to pay 22% tax on the poor allowance you pay him. So here is how the fair growth is being implemented for the capital served by the SYRIZA Government, as is the previous ones of the New Democracy and PASOK. Of course, there will also be a continuation of new tax incentives for business groups. After all, Mr Pittsorlas himself announced last week that he was coming to Parliament with this kind of measure within a two-month period. This is SYRIZA's class-inhuman policy. This is a fair development for the oligarchy of wealth. That's the scandal of the scandal! And if you want to hide, joy doesn't leave you! It is a challenge - indeed, a challenge! - shipowners, although enjoying a large number of privileges and tax exemptions and a constitutional requirement, should be charged with 10% on the imported dividends of the members of the Greek Shipowners' Union, when the worker is taxed at 22% and capital, the business groups, the industrialists, that is, the shipowners, all of them pay only 6% of the State's total tax revenue. The sum of EUR 75 million as a voluntary offer to the economy, as they say - as if they were doing a favor! - It looks like something less than crusts, when shipowners are fruited with subsidies, duty free oil and free exploitation of infrastructure, when the SYRIZA Government presents them with an extension to internal maritime transport, black labour without collective labour contracts, social security and trade union representation. In fact, the report by the General Accounting Office of the State states that an annual revenue reduction is made on the State budget from this arrangement from 2020 onwards of approximately EUR 45 million. This reduction - it states - will be supplemented by other sources of State budget revenue. In other words, the people will also be called upon to pay this account in the name of the formation of the pro-investing environment, capitalist development, which requires sacrifices for the working class without end. Of course, sooner or later you will learn the lesson - there is no way - that you deserve from the workers and the unemployed. It is for us to have an important reason to vote against the draft law at first instance. Now as far as the draft law itself is concerned, this draft law on professional sport is another legislative attempt by the SYRIZA Government - following the previous New Democracy and PASOK - to regulate business action in the area that produces and reproduces the sepsis, violence and immunity. All governments continue to refuse the adoption of the mature and self-evident proposals of the JRC for the transfer of UAE from the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which is today, to the Ministry of Development, where their control as anonymous companies must be carried out, for all debts to be attributed to the public sector, for there to be no special licensing regime and for Greek teams to be withdrawn from the "STHIMA". The adoption of the JRC's proposal, in our view, is a prerequisite for us really to deal with sport in our country at some point. So this draft law does not actually constitute an athletic bill. It is not at all concerned with the development of sport in school, the neighborhood, the chronic problems, how to develop any sport, how to increase the participation and access of the population and especially of youth. While professional football has been badly funded with millions of euros, amateur football has not been given a single euro as a grant from the state for many years now. However, when it comes to business people's fields, they are immediately studied, adopted by fast track procedures, overcoming bureaucracy. Today, a delegation of the JRC was toured with the candidate district of Attica, Yiannis Protoulis, in the former TEFA. It was found that for tomorrow's thousand two hundred students now in Daphne there are deported, abandoned facilities and while there are studies - everything - for modern facilities in the University of Painting, for years now this government and the former ones are whistling, as if nothing is happening. And we're talking about the country's first scientific potential in the field of sport. Why is that? In amateur unions, the cells of sport in local communities, the situation has not changed, it is not different. They're marveling without the required support. Our country has thousands of amateur unions and millions of people who deal with them, footballers, coaches, agents, referees, academy children. The state and over time all the governments - and this one - are absent. What has finally been done is the so-called "Recreational Sport" to be fully integrated into the model of commercial sport and to adopt all pathogenesis and cosoura at the same time. Today, with the difficulties that exist, systematic and everyday sporting activity, which embraces thousands of young people and is a shield of protection, both in health matters, such as obesity, but also in dangerous drugs, is due solely to the efforts of people in these areas, to the unions. But when this effort does not have proper support in infrastructure, scientific capacity, trainers, doctors, but also funding is depriving it, it loses its potential. Many unions, if they don't stop their operation, at best, are merged and continue searching for money and sponsors to come out the year like, paying for referees, pay the secretaries. They are unable to meet basic needs, such as selfishness, the existence of a doctor in the games or the transfer of athletes and much more. Any funding from donors can under no circumstances ensure or cover in the duration, quality and quantity of all the functional needs of a club at neighbourhood level. The draft law does not deal with these issues. It does not introduce ways to encourage participation. It introduces control - boogeyman with the tamperial crack of the tax office, hunting with the VDUs, with the tax information. Even the people of sport told you at the hearing of the bodies you work with and do well, we are not opposed to this: The profit criterion. This rejuvenates all such corruption, violence, gambling, betting, illegal and legal, making control incomplete, but also does not constitute a strengthening of the participation of parents, athletes in clubs, their massage and their participation in management boards. The problem is real. Two three, namely, people most active in most unions, especially in the province, who run for everything, leaving families, wasting time and money. This world may indeed carry various habits and distortions. Help them get over it. Don't make it hard for them. Enhance participation so that the general assembly really controls the board and the association. With regard to the Committee on Professional Sport, its creation, which will be financed by the Greek people's money, attempts to lay down rules in which business action will be developed in the field of commercialised or so-called professional sport. He's trying to put halinari on the beasts that crash into space and put rules on the sharing of prey. They have been experienced many times by fans and those who mainly deal with football and basketball, that the law of the mighty and always justifies the means. It is in the nature of the system that the big fish eat the small one and with these legislative interventions planned by the Ministry gives even more air to the sails of the great business interests. I would even say that the shortest joke is that the government is supposed to seek to establish rules in the 'TIFM' and the involvement of these companies with the OEMs and the OEMs. The truth, however, is that it opens the door wide to the betting companies more directly, as it allows their representatives and shareholders to participate in the shareholder composition of the AOCs and OEMs, as well as in the board of directors of the Sports Committee, while limiting 15% to their shareholders is the necessary symphony card to proceed with the process. At the same time, it gives the right to "OPAP S.A." to be also a verifier and bet-checked horse racers, as it will hold a specific seat on the board. The provisions relating to the guarantee letters of the OEMs, the OEMs for their participation in the Championships shall in no case ensure workers in them nor even the athletes, as it will be in the dark who has priority in the event of debts of the OEM. The aim of all these arrangements of the draft law is to clarify the business landscape from the "marriage" and to remain a greater share for the big players than the pie of business profits. It has also started last year to discuss restructuring in the Super Liga area, with the reduction of groups and the management of sponsorship television contracts and so on. Another side of the bill is that the government is attempting to make the most suffocating control of the functioning of sports federations by establishing control over financial management through an audit committee, while further tightening up the framework for the establishment and operation of the sports club, through ongoing certifications. Do you need modernisation? Do you need any changes? Of course, some are also overtime, such as in relation to the antiquities and general meetings of the sports federations, which are indeed decades behind, for example, the simple analogue we have been discussing for years or the abolition of representation by representatives or by proxy. However, whatever pure intentions the government and the Minister responsible claim to have in the specific articles of the draft law, they collapse in the fact that they exclude the whole process from the process. I mean, two yards and two weights. The phenomena you're saying, Minister, that you're going to deal with the other federations don't exist in the PDO? We have tabled an amendment to you - an addition, on the basis of which sanctions are imposed on the NRA by the non-application of paragraph 12 of Article 31 of Law 2725/1999, which explicitly provides that the exercise of the employer's profession is not subject to the approval or other equivalent restriction of another entity. Is it possible that the graduates of the NSAs, the former NSAs, cannot work as coaches in all categories because the NCA refuses to do so, even prohibiting their recruitment to the football clubs of Greece, while they are licensed by the General Secretariat of Sports by means of the formal procedure, why have they not been past the NCA's fund to obtain the certification of UEFA? And, of course, the cost grows as the charge grows. So it's not up to you as a coach from your skills, the effort you're making, it's up to you in your pocket. Good criteria. Sports with full merit. This, of course, does not apply to other sports, and here is the impressive thing. In basketball, for example, to be able to sit on a team's counter, you don't need to get certified from FIFA school and we're talking about many thousand euros. That's normal business. This is the check? You who have raised to a supreme question the question of control here why are they not controlled? We are waiting, Minister, for you to take a stand on these issues. You are all talking about the law of the request for coaches - because they are the demands of the coaches here in the amendment - we invite you to accept it and to vote in favour of a fair request. In terms of terms of terms, we are in favour of the renewal of people. We believe, however, that administrative efficiency is not solved in this way, nor is the phenomena of corruption being solved. No eternal president was born. You don't impose the renewal on her from above. You cultivate her, you create her. Cultivators the conditions for participation: finance unions, build infrastructure, upload the forms of participation. Is he referring to any of this draft law? This is where anyone who decides to be active, goes for hair and comes out ragged. Taxation, VAT, tax information. However, in order to avoid misunderstanding, we must check that this is the case today. That is why we will vote for'residences' for the terms of office. As far as violence is concerned, we are only trying to deal with the phenomenon in the context of stricter measures. Of course, nowhere in the draft law is there a clear link between the very phenomenon of violence and the logic of trade, which is the derivative of violence. Adding to the provisions on violence is an adaptation to the Criminal Code, which enhances the repression and reduction of individual rights. It serves the intention of protecting the product which it hears in the name of a'sport show industry' and has been applied in many European Union countries, without fighting the phenomenon of land violence, which is now quite often also on the ground in developed football markets. Another stricterization. Impairment is also seen in the violation of restrictive conditions. Temporary detention is being imprisoned, i.e. penalties that go beyond the Common Criminal Code. And we ask: has the strictening that has taken place in previous years, such as a penalty without suspension, reduced such phenomena? Ladies and gentlemen, violence cannot be dealt with unless the causes are addressed. Sport doesn't produce violence on its own. It is socially the causes, being reproduced in the field with business action to intensify and multiply phenomena. No measures in schools, in education, in the education of young people. But what frightens us, based on the experience we have, is this. The stadium was always a laboratory and methods were tested that were then applied to the movement itself. Watch out for that. On the other hand, as far as the operation of public sports facilities is concerned, the draft law fully adapts its maintenance and operation to business plans. It enables the OIEs and OEMs to intervene where their operation, business function, is served, by establishing their return function for the people, who will, of course, lose the right to access through multiannual concessions to the OIEs and to the OEMs. By systematically subscribing and subsidizing installations will either be degraded or surrendered to business appetites. They have seen the light of publicity business plans for the Olympic facilities 2004. There is a categorisation of the infrastructure. We have temporary, for example group G2 facilities that do not need an external type license, for tourism and other activities. Who is being facilitated in this way? It is obvious: Large tourist businesses that use sport as a attraction, to attract events and events, tournaments and various other profitable activities. They want to set up infrastructure easily and quickly to undo them. All this, in our view, serves the general directions of dismantling the central state from the obligation to maintain and build sporting infrastructures and to load them on the backs of the people through the municipalities and regions. In Article 36, we will agree because it concerns licences with employees' salaries as members of the administrative boards of national sports federations working in the public sector, as well as Article 55 concerning workers in the federations, provided that all workers are guaranteed and not linked to sporting recognition. As for horse racing, what we have been telling you for so many years and the previous ones is clear here. What does this have to do with sport? Is there going to be a discussion about who's going to control gambling in horse racing? We were impressed by the counterattack that developed in the audience. Thank you, but we won't be involved. We won't get that fight. So we're gonna pick out who's going to run the gambling? That is why we are, of course, voting against. However, what we are interested in is ensuring that workers work where they work. Ladies and gentlemen, the government on one hand denounces the terrible phenomena in the field of sport, but does not question the model of business sport. On the contrary, he thinks he's a one-way street. So the cause is business action in the field of sport, and here there is an absolute match between SYRIZA, the New Democracy, the Change Movement and the other parties. Corruption phenomena and violence will be as long as sport is a business. There will also be set-ups, gambling, legal and illegal betting and, above all, consciousness will be cultivated with the values of the rotten system, that is, all about performance, all about the first, all about profit. In fact, it has become aware that if you don't have any material motive, it's not worth dealing with championship. Really, what does this have to do with sport? Is that the present value? Is that today's model? Nor is the cause of the people's term in an institution or an institution, nor is the lack of the quota for the participation of women in unions, who do not want it. You are creating a hope - which, in our view, is false - that if you change the way you choose and operate, you will deal with the sepsis phenomena, legality will be guaranteed. The phenomena are real, but they are not the cause of rot, but their effects. They are neither unprecedented nor are Greek peculiarities. The second issue - and I am closing with that, Mr President - is the question of what we are talking about. The freshest example is the subjugation of the OFO and the Equatorialist from its first class of charges for the sake of illegal betting. In the hunt of profit the man who paid it is Heraklion's historic union, with thousands of fans all over Crete. The victim, of course, isn't the money businessman. He won't lose. Victims are the workers, they're the coaches, they're the players, they're the thousands of fans who love the shirt. The responsibilities of the state, of the governments concerned and of today, namely SYRIZA, are heavy. That is why the fans of the OBH, the sustainable and other groups must aim at the real cause of the problem and not be costed behind the interests of every businessman. For the JRC the real resolution of sport entails demolition of this rotten building that has its supports to the big businessmen, to the political and sporting players with whom they are diffuse and incorporate in these business complexes other activities, either by setting up games or laundering black money, or by redeeming the love of thousands of fans for their clubs, in order to form and build a so-called popular profile and to pave the way for other economic and business designs. Thank you, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u368	Thank you. Mr Megamomustakas, rapporteur of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see what's going on. We are coming to plenary today to discuss a draft law which was expected from 2016, Minister. Since you took over, we have been waiting for a draft law that would solve major problems of professional sport, but especially of amateur sport. Unfortunately, what we are seeing today is finally to vote on a draft law, which, when it had come up with the consultation, had other articles, which have been withdrawn, articles that should regulate important issues relating to sport and, in particular, the graduates of the TECA, the private gyms and, more generally, issues that we believe would strengthen sport. However, because there have been many reactions to these articles - you have accepted them as well as all the Members, I think - you have withdrawn them and instead of finding the gold incision, you have chosen not to come here for debate and continue to exist. We are talking about a draft law which deals with very important issues and is actually re-establishing the Committee on Professional Sport. It needed things to change. However, what we see in the way you bring it is that you seek to have control of this committee. We say this because it does not substantially change what happened before, but what you want to do by reinforcing the committee is to have the last word, even who will be a member. You decide. We have said many times that to have holistic solutions, universal solutions, which will not leave a shadow to suspect any suspicious or malicious, not all of them should be left to ministerial decisions and presidential decrees. But that's what you're doing here. Unfortunately, that is what you do, because we really expected something different. What really angers us is that with the draft law, as it comes, we see that not only is there no provision available for amateur sport, but also for professional sport we see that the person who has more money survives. A characteristic example is Article 22, according to which whoever pays is playing. There is no man who is not licensed, when he can pay the fine, to continue his sporting course. This does not in any way satisfy us, and I think most of the government's Members also do. However, we do not understand why they want to support this. It is perhaps part of the struggle that they have between their consciences and what they are forced to do. What we also cannot understand - because you bring it despite the explanations that we do not consider sufficient - is why you allow bet shareholders with 15% to run a sports anonymous company. By making such moves, all you can do is confirm the ridicule, which may also have a basis, which says that sport is now clearly dependent on money. Sport is a way out, and so we must face it, a way out that we should take advantage of, especially today after so many years of hardship where culture is promoting. I don't think you treat him like that, as a cultural valley. What does not satisfy us is the fact that, in trying to resolve the federations' issues, you have not taken into account what the federations have said to you. That's clear. There was no legislative improvement, no correction, no improvement in what the federations said. What does that show? First of all, that there was no substantial dialogue before the draft law came, but then that there is intransigence and that there is no intention to hear what the real needs are. And that's a problem for a government. As also, we are not satisfied with the fact that you are using sport to continue your micro-party interests. It is now for us that you have decided that this is how you will go now. In each bill you will bring provisions that come to settle your own party needs by appointing some people. A characteristic example is Article 59, where you also retrospectively give to someone chosen, money for the press office.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u370	He's a civil servant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u371	I know exactly what it is, but I know very well that every civil servant doesn't go in there. What we also want to mention, as it is not acceptable to us, is the fact that you are coming today, in 2019, to boast that you are improving conditions in sport using technology - I said it to the committees - by making public decisions on the Internet, and that they should have set up platforms of this kind, so that there is full transparency. What we have heard in the committee with the bodies, the issue of the greatest tensions, is that of the horse race. To understand what has happened, I will say that for the past three months the racetrack has been closed, and not even three thousand people are working. It is something that has been decided by the concessionaire on the pretext that this is due to the conduct of Philippian Union. Truth usually hides somewhere in the center. That's what you should investigate. Reading and investigating this issue, I saw that there have been many mistakes, both from Philippine Union in the past and from the 'S.E. racing' today, and a change really should be made. But going from one end to another is not what will give us a solution. We have made a very specific proposal to the committees and especially to the Management Board, and which members should make it up. Our proposal, therefore, was not to increase the members of the company "Railways S.A.". To reduce, if you so wish, the members of Philip's Union to four, two, that is, two, such as your own proposal, and to speak to the directly involved in the race, to the young, to those who live, to those who are looking to find the opportunity to get their bread out of him, such as horsemen, coaches and even owners. So you could have eleven members, making three members of these bodies I mentioned, having two from the Ministry, after taking off the representative of the Ministry of Finance, and having six members of the Phillip Union and the OPAP, in essence, the ‘S.A. races’. What you must keep in mind is that, with the addition of new members, which we do not criticise, in Philippe, it is very likely that these four members will not all have the same viewpoint. I am therefore sure that such problems will not be dealt with and that if there is only a quorum when there are eight members, then we see that only one body can block the consultation process. This is something you should see at least at the last minute. And I say again to you that there are mistakes from all sides, but you, as a government, should examine them correctly, listen to all views and aim to the best possible solution, not to do what almost all the wings of this Parliament, the audited auditor, have accused you of. Now to close with this issue, even if you don't listen to us, what has to be done is to do everything you can to get the race back to work again. We have said - and we say it again - that they are three thousand families - and they may be more relevant to the related professions and to all those who work with them - who are on the way. And to close, I want to make a more general report. At the moment in Greece there are sports facilities, which I am not afraid to say are collapsed, are downgraded, and we are not taking advantage of them. There is a need for society to open new roads, roads like sport. Minister, we have asked you questions personally, which have remained unanswered for various facilities, namely, I will talk about two situations, a closed gym that is under erect and a closed swimming pool. We haven't got an answer unfortunately. We have also sent you a letter of protest, in which - and this - you have not answered. What you need to do directly is take care of amateur sport, because it is the basis for championship. Amateur sport should be a question - namely its development - for each government. We cannot say that you have done a good job, as in these four years when you are running our country, we have not seen you solve any problems in sport. As for violence - and to close with it - which you want to tighten sanctions in this draft law, I want you to know that this is not the problem. The punishments for offenders have already been severe enough. However, what we need to understand is that if there is no political will, initially for a immediate solution, and then if there is no necessary preparation, the cultivation of education and culture in sport, then we will not be able to change anything. That's what we need to achieve. That must be our goal, and only in this way will we be able to change the way Greeks and those around sport think. We really hope that you think about what is going on, consider what has been said in the committees and by colleagues, but also by operators, and improve, to the extent necessary, this draft law. We, as a Centro Association for Recognizing that there are problems in sport, reserve what we will vote on and then see whether you will bring legislative improvements, as we see that this draft law only means recognising the problems through ideological and not solve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and students and an educational attendant from the 3rd High School of Ierapetra. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u373	Is Mrs Bakoyannis a parliamentary?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u374	Yes, parliamentary!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u375	We thought it was Mr. Javaras, that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u376	It was, but something happened to him, and I got it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the sports bill has been awaited by the country's sports world for too long. I must admit that I would also expect a bill that would be better served in a different logic. I, as you know, am not an expert on sport, but it is my committee, but I have lived through the many discussions that the Olympic Committee has had, which has sat and debated for hours, to present its views. She submitted them with fifty different points of view, which, unfortunately, were not taken into account at all. This bill creates a problem and it will cause a problem - and you will remember me, ladies and gentlemen - for the International Olympic Committee, namely the ILO, which will come and reject this bill. Because what does the bill do, which is proud? It puts partisanism into sport. The ILO cannot accept this in any way. Because if one thing managed to keep the Olympic movement and keep it clear, it is that no one in the Olympic movement can serve both party reasonable. I say this directly to the Minister. The ILO will turn the bill back on you, Minister, and you will have to come back to this House. And it is a pity that a number of remarks which have been made to you, which have no substance, have not been taken into account, have not been taken into account at all. This effort, which you are doing through the votes, by those of us, ladies and gentlemen, are old - and we are old - and we are old and have voted in a number of different places, since we were students, in various elections - we know that as much as you try to cook special electoral laws, even at union level, the result will be if it is to come out, Mr Minister. This effort you've made is just throwing the last fig sheet at you. I want to say something about women. I, indeed, have supported my whole life the greater involvement of women. I have supported it with passion, despite the fact that the idea of quota always bothered me. I didn't want to be a quota percentage and I've always tried to find a way. I have come to a conclusion, Minister, and I tell you. Whenever a quota was imposed, from the smaller club to the largest one - you see the Greek Parliament - the results were opposite. Finally, women were reduced, women were not found, women were nominated only to fill the ballots. These women did not wish to participate, so they did not honour the fight against women. The result was a boomerang for women. I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, because you will have experienced it too. A woman who wants her to be involved, claims her and achieves her very easily. Where I was having a hard time, even with various trade unions, and we wanted to get women down, we knew that if we could barely take them down, we had failed, if we did, because they really wanted us to, we had succeeded. I don't think you'll end up having a good effect on this story. You will have the opposite effect and you will have unions and federations that will not work. And when they can't work, they'll start all the cooking and we'll have an absolute failure to operate these federations. You're wrong about that. It's a good sale, it sounds good for women, but it turns out to the detriment of women. My third and final comment on the issue of the bill is, ladies and gentlemen, the issue - which I have tabled a question for which I know better - of the horse race. Minister, I have tabled a specific question with specific evidence. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no more photographic provision. And I want all of you to vote for it to know that it's photographic. There is no place in the world of controls and controlled to be the same. The OPAP has now been given the opportunity to participate in the "STORY", to organise the bet on the horse race and to be allowed in this country. There is no such thing, Minister. You're making a huge mistake. And you're committing a crime. For three years the race races have been stopped. Three thousand families - and my colleague told you earlier - have no opportunity to eat their bread, because someone always blocks the horse races. And you are now coming to make a regulation, which is 100% photographic, which gives a man, that is, an organization that has signed a contract with the Greek state, which the contract did not give him by means of a bill. In my opinion, the contract was a bad one. Our days have been signed. In any case, it was not the best contract. And you're coming over to do all this. Why don't you take a picture of me making you a description of the person concerned? But know that you're putting your signature under a story that's not allowed. And I'm not the only one saying it. Have you read the report of the Parliament's Scientific Office? The scientific report of the House tells you - read it - that there is concern about the danger of the public interest. Why is the public interest at stake? We here, ladies and gentlemen, what are we? What do we represent? The public interest is represented. I'm neither a distinguished lawyer nor anything. But when I read the scientific report of the House, I confirmed what I really believed. This provision is at the expense of the public interest. I'm telling you. You have your vote. Think about it. Because that's a story that's going to keep going anyway. And I come now, Mr President, on the subject of the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are experiencing these days is not a parliament. It's not a parliamentary procedure. I want to contribute positively. I'm telling you, honestly. However, we cannot get whole bills in the form of the amendment. What happened today with the health bill is a crook. It's a canoe. I don't know what other Greeks can tell you. It cannot end at 16.00 a.m. the health bill and the Ministry of Sports bill coming a three-page amendment to the Ministry of Health! And why is he coming? He couldn't - he says - mature earlier. Well, didn't the Department of Health know it had a whole bill? He couldn't mature earlier?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u377	But Mr. Kelles asked for it, Mrs. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u378	For another matter!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u379	Mr. Kelles, Mr. President, the need to defend this issue...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u380	No, it's no defense. I do not think that the over-examinations for Parliament are inconsistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u381	Mr Kelles spoke of a part of this amendment. The amendment is three pages. We - let us say, directly we say that we consider it a very good idea for children to have dental coverage and I would very much like to vote for it. But you are bringing it to me in the form of the amendment. And you know very well that two things exist in the amendment. The first is that it cannot be cut - it is not a bill - and so to say that I am voting for this and I am not voting for the EEAS - which, by magic, is acquired by the Directorate of Procurement like everyone, to abolish the Central Directorate of Procurement - I cannot do so. I am therefore obliged to say no to the amendment. Why does this have to be done? Is it parliamentaryly right? The second is that the amendment has not been passed by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. This will, if necessary, affect the government. But it does not suit us MPs. Because we would like to have the opinion of the Scientific Committee. The same is true of the bill of Culture. I want to vote on the two provisions from three, the issue of Elefsina and the issue of Alexandra Avenue buildings. I think it's right. But I do not want to put the public investment budget on the vote to give money to something that you have a code to the Ministry of Culture, where we always pay it from this code and it's from the Ministry of Culture's budget. Why should you now force me to say 'no', and I would like to say in two of the three provisions 'yes'? Because you're just legislating on the leg. And this is a parliamentary procedure which does not allow for consent, which is necessary in the Greek political system, nor for the argument of disagreement. When you bring us a series of amendments, we cannot even have time to have our own experts, ladies and gentlemen. I told you I'm not an expert on sport. Tell me other things, and I might know them. Do you not have in your parliamentary group a group of people who are more health experts, who are more foreign policy experts, more sports experts? It is right for a parliamentary group not to know at the last minute that amendments are coming from the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Rural Development, etc. and not even have time to ask our own people to respect our vote? We do not want to vote simply on everything 'no'. We want where we agree to be able to say it. I am now talking about the Minutes: in the amendment on regulations for the EEA, we say 'no'. In the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Labour, we say'represents'. The Ministry of Finance's amendment to dividends is the same regulation that we have tabled. We testified her a little more brave. We testified 10%, you do it 5%. In any case, it is in the right direction and we are voting on it. We do not vote for the amendment by the Ministry of Finance to the AIA, ladies and gentlemen. The logic that the Greek Parliament is giving its forgiveness at first instance for anything that any public official of ours can do does does not find us in agreement. To exclude at least the deceit, say that if it had been deceit, the criminal proceedings will be followed. It cannot be discovered tomorrow morning that a public minister had a fraud, that he harmed the public interest for some reason, his own, and we, on the pretext, voted that this man will never be prosecuted. What kind of justice is that? What kind of logic is that? How can we do this? So we're the laundry of any scandal tomorrow? I'm not talking about anyone personally. I'd say it was a matter of this, too. I would never have liked the House to have voted on such an amendment for a public official. On the subject of coaches, etc., in this amendment - we also say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u382	For the amendment of the Ministry of Culture?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u383	But I told you, you have a solution, and I'll be happy to give it to you. If you now break it to me and make two amendments, two and one, I will vote for you two and I will vote 'no' on one. It's too easy. Tell your secretariat to break the amendment into two amendments. Do you understand what I'm saying? If you want, I will vote for the two. But do not oblige me, because of the third, to vote 'no'. That is why I say that we do not legislate in a serious way here. I conclude by saying - and I am also making a final appeal to the Bureau of Parliament - Mr President, I would ask you to convey to the President of Parliament the appeal of the New Democracy to respect at least ourselves, to respect the Greek Parliament, what we say every time we talk about the Rules of Procedure of the House in this House in order to make an effort to observe it, not to benefit the House of Greeks in the way it has enjoyed today, to table an amendment at 14.00 hours the time when the bill is being discussed and to vote in a different bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u384	Mrs. Bakoyannis, and I would like to ask you something, because I have accepted that you have replaced Mr. Javarra, please explain what was shared...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u385	I didn't understand what to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u386	Because I have accepted that you have replaced Mr. Javarra, please explain to Mr. Javarra what we have agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u387	Sure. Of course. To God!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u388	So that I do not demolish Parliament, that is why I am saying so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u389	He's afraid Mr. Javarras isn't upset. He's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u390	Mrs. Bakoyannis, I'm not afraid Mr. Javarras will be sad. Mr. Javarras contacted me and told me that this was not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u391	I'm so sorry. That's my order. Mr President, we will resolve this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u392	That's exactly why I'm telling you. I have a reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u393	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u394	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u395	Mr President, I would like to refer to the amendment on the financing of the Greek Film Centre with the Public Investment Programme. To say that we do have a change, for example, but this is about whether things have changed. We are now at a time when services, audiovisual production, cinema is an important part of global economic activity and we cannot ignore that. I repeat that there have been studies since 2014 showing the powerful multiplier of investment in cinema and domestic, not only in international film production that comes into the country, but also in domestic cinema production.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u396	We agree on all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u397	So, in order to meet the challenges of the new era, we think - perhaps we are not convinced, we can agree or disagree, but we are also discussing this very good - that we must try this in addition to this, in the cast rebate and in the tax rebate already established with other tools for international production. As far as the procedure is concerned, I am a new State Secretary, I admit, I would have tabled three separate amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u398	Now that we ask you, you can do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u399	I'll try it. I think that because the report from the General Accounting Office of the State, you know this, at this time I don't know if I'm gonna make it...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u400	Bring it to another bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u401	It's a report from the General Accounting Office and you know it. Anyway, I said we might agree or disagree, we're talking...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u402	In any case, we are positive for the other two.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u403	Good. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u404	We enter the circle of speakers with Mr. Constantinea first. Mr. Constantine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin with my honourable colleague, Mrs Bakoyannis. I'm a smaller politician than her. It has more experience, it is simply a lack of memory in the governance of the amendments, which a parliamentarian can rightly say, in the period 2012-2014, which were coming up and in the way they were coming. Just not forget what was happening between 2012 and 2014. But your observation is correct. We hope that the Rules of Procedure of Parliament will change it. I would like to say, Mrs Bakoyannis - why do I not see your rapporteur who is a sports expert - that in the previous bill all of New Democracy said: why do you not bring the simple analogue? You enter here, together with the New Democracy, and you condemn the mere analogy that expels democratisation and federations and unions. And you want me to tell you something? You talk and say that we have a political benefit. Unfortunately, the harsh reality of thirty years in both federations and clubs is that with this system that existed, there was the problem with the party, so don't tell us where we open the Ventalia. It's exactly the opposite of what you're saying. We are talking about women's quota, and you have quite rightly said - I will agree with you - that there may be a problem. If I open a legislative window, it'll never happen. It's like 1980 when the Greek was opening the window and tossing the cigarette ashtray on the road. Now she's ashamed to do it. They've got to get rules in here. We're talking about births. We know presidents, on what you said, pancakes. Feds presidents and young people in sport who have not been able, based on the deep roots they have had within federations and clubs, and wonderful athletes who have passed. I will go into another issue in the bill, because we have to say the basics. The auditing of the Public Administration Inspector for federation's activities is something that needs to be agreed with us. I do not think that public money that goes to the federations should not be controlled. This whole majority must do that. We're coming to the bets for 15%. You agree, Mrs Bakoyannis, that the media should also leave on the influence of football by the big shareholders, because I have an example in England that the chairman of a group has the "BET". You agree, however, - if you will, to take your logic - to leave the media that affect football and say 'no' to bets, but 'no' and to those who have media. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u406	What does one have to do with the other?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u407	Mints run football and betting. I'm moving forward. I'm on a horse race. You're telling me about lawlessness. The hippodrome is closed. It's not open, it's closed, so we don't go crazy right now. You have rightly said that you have respected and respected your attitude toward the bad convention put forward by the New Democracy and said so from the Step of Parliament. We're here to say what? You're telling me that the controller is also a controller. I'll tell you what was going on on the horse race, that the doctor of the horse race in there was controlled for the doping, the dopings weren't doing here, they were taking it abroad and they owed by big businessmen to a big businessman. Controlled his horses and the rewards of the champions and owes the Greek public and the dopings he sent them abroad and closed the racetrack. What am I saying now - why don't you know it - about the horse race? Four members of the FEE, the "PHILOPOS ASSOCIATION GREECE", four members of the operation, two members of the Ministry of Rural Development and the Secretary-General and one member of the owners with 3 to 2 majority of the general meetings. What's more democratic? And this is parity and equality and full democratisation, because the world is listening to us and we are telling a story that can be sent to us in a mobile message, and we do not know what was happening. I'm not coming to the three thousand families. Let's think of those who closed the race. In the bill we bring, I would like to say about the participation of citizens of a Member State of the European Union in all the federations where championships can be entered, and of citizens who have a residence permit here and who have applied for it. That's very important. Let's go see what we've done for sport. I open the site of the New Democracy, Mr. Bakoyannis, and I don't see a New Democracy sports program.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u408	Slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u409	What's going on slowly?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u410	Slowly, you'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u411	It cannot speak of a ruling party for 30 years, when you do not have a sports program. Do you have a health programme? Reflect. For the economy? Reflect. You don't have a site where the voter of New Democracy comes in and says the sports program of the New Democracy. You are unscheduled, unfortunately, and I say it about the sporting piece. The other way to stand up to. Stages. There were no permits. They weren't going to the administrations. You've been paying for it. The distinguished athletes, whom many we applaud and say about their successes, we hired them, you only took pictures. We hired them. A swimming programme in municipalities, a sportsman's card, the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Sport along with the program "Philodimos". Let's go and do amateur plays and athletics for everyone. Your mayors - and at my place your mayors - admit that with this government, with Venezuela, the fourth memorandum, they have taken most of the money from any government for twenty years. Most of the money, your mayors! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I conclude with what the Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen, said about the ten-year bond. We thank the New Democracy for its important contribution to SYRIZA's sports program, because we have it before we reach the government, since sport in Greece is not as you ruled. But we want him to be even better. I'm not talking about success story like my compatriot, Antony Samaras. So we have a successful shape, and it must be maintained after the elections, so that you can come here and judge us from the Anti-Population Step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u412	Mr Vasiliadis has the floor. Is that enough eighteen minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u413	Perhaps a little further, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u414	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u415	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill, which follows on from many regulations that were intended over the years to try to restore a normality, put rules, put order in the whole of Greek sport, a bill that we consider to be a bill - an incision that will bring a new page to the field of sport. The debate in Europe as a whole, whether sporting or political, the Council of Ministers, in the Council of Europe, focuses on specific areas to be defined in politics, because the phenomenon of corruption, both in professional and amateur sport, have scourged the phenomenon of maladministration, resulting in, in particular, in recent years, in witnessing phenomena of judicial conflicts, phenomena, phenomena which are a wound to the body of sport. At the heart of these debates is accountability, transparency, good governance, the safeguarding of minority rights, gender equality, not just in political fora, as we said before. At the same time the International Olympic Committee has been talking about good governance and transparency and gender equality, promoting mixed sports and taboo issues so far, such as age limits in immortal terms that are no longer as immortal as they were in the past. In Greece, during the period of prosperity, when we spent millions of millions of dollars, either from the state budget or from the special accounts of the state-owned PPA, we witnessed an unlike the money spent on raising Greek sport, but with too many irregularities, with many problems in all the manifestations of the management of sport. For example - and it is also provided in the regulations that we are discussing today - we have seen an irregularity in recruitment, a transfer of the central client state, the central political scene within the sporting scene, and we are sharing containers, because we do not find in the electoral system the partitioning of sport, the independent, otherwise. It's a small place, we know each other. And I'm not saying it's bad. We all have a political background, but we do not demonise electoral systems in front of the beauty that we have experienced all these years and have experienced recently within the Olympic Committee's own elections. And we've only been through degeneration. And these events led to no Greek immortality today. In the federations themselves - administrations, with this electoral system, and non-partyisation, otherwise, we had administrations by temporary order that changed every six months and according to the judiciary decision until the beans for the final votes, extrajudicial proceedings, courts for courts, the office of the Minister and the Secretary-General for Sport filled with complaints, opinions from the Legal Council of State, and all this why? Because there was a system of structured mistakes. Professional sport is demanded, as is the case everywhere, by financial control. Not state intervention, but financial control, respecting the right concept of the self-employed. Why do we constantly make this concept elastic, defining the framework, to escape the phenomena of'strong people', illegal takeovers, etc. I will try to keep, as I have done and within the committee, low tones, because I think that many times the words and problems or dependencies of structured relations in the field of sport do not let us say the absolute truth and agree more than we will finally agree today. I tried to be very careful in every expression I'm using. Therefore, for the proper legislation of the Committee on Professional Sport, I used the term incomplete. I did not use, as I could, the term'made in such a way'. Because that was the legislature, I would make a control body, but without ever giving it any power over the substance, to say that I made it, to take the obligation out of there, and then continue to live the same phenomena, and thus lacking financial control, guaranteeing the solvency of these companies, of sports companies, from the state. And why do these anonymous companies have a different, separate approach? Why shouldn't it just be in the Ministry of Trade, which is the control, as an anonymous company, and involve the Ministry of Sport? Why? Because basically they are sui generis anonymous companies. It is not a simple capitalist company, it is a company that expresses and is a continuity of a club, with what it implies, with the history that it may also carry on with the problems of not controlling economic operators who enter sporting anonymous companies. It was then drowned most of the time by the state itself to give solutions, because at the end of the day, behind an anonymous company, there was a historical union. So today, with this legislation, we will see for the Committee on Professional Sport. It takes responsibility and it becomes an independent authority, which will go through - and after the legislative improvements and the debate we have had in the Committee on Educational Affairs - from the approval of the Committee on Educational Affairs, with a composition which ensures the necessary expertise, legal, scientific, professional and clear barriers, a framework that is clear and as hard as it is to be useful, giving serious control tools, real control tools, so that we have a thorough and effective control to avoid past phenomena, with fiscal and banking tools, on the basis of which you have been able to give the patronage everything it takes to avoid the phenomena of the past. It will be an instrument which will be accountable and obliged to issue a certificate and a report. Here is the problem or perhaps conflict with the self-government and some questions were heard earlier. State control in these companies or federations on who will participate in a championship has its own rules, based on the rules of the international federation or the locality. They define who will participate in the championship. We do the financial control to see as a state if it fulfils our conditions. We and order not to participate in the championship is an empty letter, as it has been all these years. So what do we say? We come and put exterminating fines on anyone who violates the principles of the law, on whomever takes part in a championship without having this certificate, that is, without complying with the minimum requirements laid down by the law. And these fines, essentially, based on the current economic reality of professional sport, are forbidden to participate. Don't be fooled. So we are pursuing and devising the policy that we want, and following the rules of the international federations, but also being legitimate with the public on the matter of law and the reality, the substance of the control that the state should have. For amateur sport, I will compare the announcements made by the Olympic Committee, which I think is to a large extent opposed to the debate we had in committee, as it has been shown beyond that many of the proposals and suggestions have been accepted and corrections made and I think that this communication is more politicizing than answering the substance and using the term 'grape'. Why? Woman the financial control? The accountability? I looted to be able to control where the public money goes so you wouldn't ever live again what we've been through in the past? Woman or simple analog? Now they remembered the electoral system? Does Law 2725 not have a clear electoral system in place? It is the enhanced ratio with 70% bonus, which in essence prevents any other view. Why then was it not an intervention in the self-employed and it was not a problem, then when many of those who are now in command were legislating? The law, therefore, over time, defines the framework of operation, defines everything. We also come in this context and lay the rules. Law 2725/1999 Article 24(8) on the electoral system. For us, then, whatever politics you want to apply to sport, whatever good intention and have, any program and announce, at the end of the day, someone comes and implements it. To have general rules in how this sporting life exists, how this cell of sport is structured, is central to ensuring that it is properly operated. No intervention in what decisions will be taken either in the rules of children's formation or in the rules of formation, but rules that the Greek legal entities have and must put the state in place. By going out, ladies and gentlemen, from the memoranda, we have all learned that there should be no one who should not be accountable and that there should not be a single euro coming out of the funds of the state without any control, so that we do not relive the glorious moments of the past. What we are doing with this bill is to lay down rules on the establishment of the institutions that ensure constitutionally guaranteed principles of minority rights representation, gender representation. So the rule is a single vote, but with a quota for the crusade it serves? Let's be honest. It serves that marginal majority voting cannot rule out conflicting views. Cannot 51% of the assembly can control 100% of the instrument. They are basic democratic principles for us to function properly, not to be bogged down, to confuse themselves, to talk about their problems, not to end up with their every problem - which is often not serious for someone who is an external observer - in the judiciary, in the newspaper lanes, and to be constantly resilient, but also to ensure the participation of all our representatives in the institutions, so that there is no male principle and dark points in governance. The most important thing, then, is control and accountability. What else do we have? The possibility, as there is in the law, of separate lists. You cannot forbid anyone, if he does not want to go down to the single list, to have the right to go down with a separate ballot, with the rules that we have put in, under the conditions we have set. He can't have one of his own. We have said what the minimum horizon is, what the minimum number is. What else is so awesome? The introduction of terms of reference - which are everywhere - rather than terms of reference in general. You don't exclude anyone from the management of sports organs. We put the terms - two consecutive or four on the whole - on the executive positions, on the positions which have the right to sign, as defined in the statutes of each federation. I do not think that any of us want the status of equitable presidents, but at the same time does not want them to be kicked out of the process. It is an extremely balanced prediction, because we must speak frankly and those who come from sport MPs, who have lived and experienced them, how it is structured and how the sporting structure works. We must therefore put these minimum rules on self-determination, so that the feds can finish the drawer with the authorisations. These are the unions - seals that appear only for the elections and usually by authorizing them, which exist in advance. Are we gonna make it acceptable? We're gonna turn your back? Are we supposed to say it's not happening? Because at the end of the day the money given by the state corps is not very small, ladies and gentlemen. And every year, from 15 million euros in 2015 on the basis of the 2014 budget to 20 million euros in 2019, without calculating the exceptional funding that will reasonably exist this year. We disagree with the gender quota. Shall we legislate greetings? There's a law, there's 20%. Where's 20%? The Olympic Committee. Because we respect the International Olympic Committee, there is a clear prediction that for the elections to the Olympic Committee - for the highlightation of the Olympic Committee - the federations are following the rules of their statutes. It's an explicit prediction. From there on, as far as women are concerned, I should like to say that the Olympic Committee is two to thirty-two, one of which is elected. In the national federations, the proportion of women participation in the institutions is 14.28%, while in the positions of presidencies 6.19%. I am sorry, I cannot do with anything acceptable that there are no women who are interested. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Madam President, I will need some more time, as I have said. Assuming that we have ten thousand unions across the country with seven boards, it means that we need twenty-three thousand women in a total of five and a half million Greek population, 0.42%. So are women so indifferent to the athletic process? I'm talking about the women we see in the sports process, either as athletes, either as coaches or as mothers of our children, who are constantly running. But when the general meeting of the institution comes it is absent. What are we gonna do? Are we going to do wishfuls, be fatalists or legislate and impose it, following the guidelines of the Council of Europe? Mrs. Bakoyannis, because you're a candidate for Secretary-General, I'm pointing out that this is a key. These guidelines show us where we need to go, what we need to do and how this should be done in every way. Women's exclusion is incomprehensible. What else are they yelling for? For the financial control by the general public administration inspector? I say this again: in order not to relive ourselves, in order not to return to the past, 1 euro will not be allowed to go away without financial control from instruments which have and guarantees of fairness and sound control and openness. Is life getting harder? Are we going to adapt to the new reality? Already with the circular sent by the General Secretariat of Sports to the federations, we are putting new rules and we also demand that auditors, in order to finish this story, do not know where each euro goes to the Greek people. As we respect all the actors, their offer and amateur sport, in the whole of the bill there are provisions that recognise the offer of these people, such as unpaid leave for civil servants, who are involved in a federation and cannot otherwise participate, they cannot take part in the sporting process, such as the possibility given to federations when they are organizing an international organisation to be able to recruit qualified staff, such as the executive president, who can receive a fee, if the general meeting of the federation so decides, by recognising that in the new economic situation, which sport is more than it was many years ago, it is often necessary to have this provision because it needs specialized work, many hours of work. Continuing, we're going to the subject of violence. We're all witnessing phenomena. I will disagree with the tension or the selective reference of incidents of violence, the selective memory - which is the worst - at the same time as the sad events in the 'Papastrateo'. That is why we are waiting very soon for the Greek Police and for announcements and developments, such as any incident of violence that has occurred in recent years, have been brought to fruition by the Greek Police and all cases have been referred to justice, with no exception. There was - and this was also detected with UEFA - in the Standing Committee we have created a conviction of impunity due to the slow pace of Greek justice, due to the fact that many times the incidental penalties, which are the deprivation of entry into racing spaces, come after six or seven and eight years after the incident, when the perpetrator may have stopped his activity, too, going to the field. So what do we say? We give the opportunity, by exercising the criminal prosecution, to have this incident either by a prosecutor's decision, in the presence of the perpetrator in the police department, or not, with serious penalties and consequences in the event of a breach of the restrictive term, but also the creation of an independent criminal offence by the security officer of the establishment, when it allows someone for whom this restrictive term is present, to enter the court. As for immigrants and refugees, the Greek people embraced at very difficult times the lives of these people, persecuted from their homeland because of the wars, the economic crisis, due to the struggles of the great powers that always end up in the heads of the peoples. With great love, I say again, at times when we were broken by the recession and the economic crisis, we tried to find solutions, recognising that sport is the driving lever, the driving axis of social cohesion and social inclusion, recognizing that those people for as long as they live in our country have rights and, on the basis of the Council of Europe's resolution by which sport is considered a human right, we must give them the opportunity to participate in this human right. We make this arrangement so that anyone in our country with legal documents, or even asking for asylum, can participate in the sporting process. For the federations that I have said before, the people locked in by the way they acted in violation of the law, the federations in any way - I mean, in order not to throw them into the federations - of the central state, we come and find a solution, solving their problem and detaching them from the unfavourable positions they are now, many unpaid for years, allowing them to move within the federations and finally asking the federations and making a rule to bring their agencies as well. For Philippe now, in 2013, there was a concession contract. I won't judge if she's good or bad. Problems have been created. There was no decision of the Board of Directors of the EU, which did not end up with the State’s Legal Adviser for an opinion, the Secretary-General to make the decision, complaints of complaints of complaints on any board of directors, complete inactivation of the system, complete inactivation of the horse race, serious complaints from each other. That is where we had to find a solution, which was also reflected in the tension within Parliament's committees. We've all experienced this thing. It was a dead end, and a solution had to be found, which would either simulate the British model with the complete abolition of the EU and the creation of a body of about the same standards - I also analysed it in the committees how it is structured - whether respecting the history of the EU, despite the problems, to find a new walk in order to enable the racer to function, not to lose his job and to develop, if possible, in the next period. So let's go to a new composition in which for the first time the horse race community is expressed through the oldest union, which has so far not existed. There have been many associations in recent times. We had no choice but to take the oldest one and that which, up to two months ago, was theoretically expressing the whole industry, but at the moment also expresses, according to data and documentary, over 80% of the industry, by changing the composition, by increasing the position of the concessionaire, but not to such an extent that it has the main and sole control over the board and by laying down rules which impose unanimity. It needs unanimity in order to be able to move forward, work for both horse races and workers' families, but at the end of the day and the Greek state, through the tax revenue that he will produce. Legislation remains with the Minister, remains with the General Secretariat of Sports, checks on the legality of acts, checks on the legality of the operation, decisions. No control is being dismantled. For the purpose of checking, let's not be fooled. The first time that a decision was referred to for reasons of feasibility was now, after eighty years. Or everything was getting perfect. But I'm going to show you complaints all the time before privatisation, since 2005. People who showed up in the committee, at the side of the EU today, have signed complaints in previous years with countless as many accusations. I'm not saying that's right, or that's wrong, or they were right at the time, they're not right now or anything. So we need to find a solution for the front and I think that this regulation ensures that. Now, for just a minute, I will say about a few things that were mainly heard by Mrs Kefalidou, about the theoretical, about the sports structure and the general policy. That's good theory when the athletes' premiums, the rewards, what the state gives them as a guarantee to move on in their lives, from 2011 onwards, were zero. And we were invited, within three years, to pay and pay the people who deserve it because they honored our country, the debts of the state of a decade, for these people who are so cut off, for the structure that we are so cut off. Sports schools who abolished them? Which government abolished sports schools? To accept that it was a problematic way of accepting it. The problem is that you fix it, you don't take it out. So don't come and blame and talk about visions when you yourself made these decisions and followed these policies. As far as aid to students is concerned, they have not informed you that since this year for students - athletes there is another system, with much more absenteeism and with reinforcement in schools for them. And you can discuss this with both the children and the parents. This Parliament, from this government, is passed here, I am afraid not by you. I guess I hope, yeah, you too. You referred to someone Stefanos Chichipas said, excellent and very great and great talent. He didn't just say about the problem in learning. "And now I'm going to talk about a federation with which I have an excellent relationship and I think it works well." He talked about the problems in the federation's operation. Be careful, it's interconnected. That is why we must legislate and take brave initiatives, which will mark a change in the whole of Greek sport. So, ladies and gentlemen - and I close - I think that today we are able to draw up a new page, turn a new page into Greek sporting life, both professional and amateur sport, ensure the rights of all Greeks and all Greeks, ensure the rights of minority, ensure accountability, ensure proper management, ensure that in this country, which is back on its feet, do not make the mistakes of the past, that in this country there are rules, that things have changed in this country and we can only look at the future with optimism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u416	It is known in this House that the meeting is being attended by the above Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House organizes and operates, twenty-nine students and students from the 3rd High School of Ierapetra (second section). The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u417	Madam President, I would like to put forward some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u418	For your dentistry, there are only five minutes left, Mr. Vasiliadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u419	I'm just filing them. I won't say anything about the time economy. It's nothing serious. On the basis of a report from the Scientific Committee of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u420	We continue with the list of speakers. Three Members will speak and a parliamentary representative will be present.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u421	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u422	I said three, Mr Javarra, because they are already four who quit. It's too tiring to be people by morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u423	Do not negotiate, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u424	I'm not negotiating it. Just be precise in time, because we're going to get out of here and others and it's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u425	The Minister spoke so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u426	The Minister was in time, Mr. Javarra. He's had five minutes to close. Don't tell me that. After all, Mrs Bakoyannis spoke of you as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, so you have no reason to press.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u427	As much as you're trying to irritate us...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u428	May I irritate you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u429	...you won't hear from us what you're waiting for. So listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u430	You must be informed by your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u431	I don't need to be informed about anything. My party has informed you in writing that it is me and I will remain to the end. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen to me. There was a misunderstanding. Do you think Mrs. Bakoyannis thought that I... [[Noise - laughers in the Chamber]] Who's laughing like that, guys? Baby's laughing even when there's nothing ridiculous going on. That's what the ancients say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u432	Good for you, but listen to Mrs. Bakoyannis...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u433	Well, because you finally have to respect those who have the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u434	Mr Javarra, it is not my fault now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u435	...and those who ultimately have the right to speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u436	Mr. Javarra, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u437	Have you been brought here for good, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u438	Mr. Javarra!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u439	Roots and axes had others...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u440	Please, we're not having a dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u441	I didn't get it. Are you telling me about bats and axes? Go look in the mirror!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u442	Roots and axes had others. I had carnations red.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u443	I'm sorry why you're a body of the Madam President and the Minister to make a riot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u444	Mr. Javarra, you exaggerate, you're losing the measure. That I'm whose instrument...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u445	I'm not losing any measure. I'm cool.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u446	What exactly am I doing? Solve your problems and then come talk to me. For now, I'm interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u447	Because I understand that you have conceived a plan here to deprive me of my word, so I tell you that you will not deny me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u448	Okay, but these are tricks. It's not about the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u449	Some such juveniles over here like the gentleman, who you inspire as if it was some neurosuppression that wants to impose someone -- supposedly -- class in the chaos that is being created, stop them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u450	What are you talking about, Mr. Javarra? What are you talking about? Please. As far as the elections are concerned, you're losing the measure, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u451	Already we've seen the way and your spirit and style.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u452	You were very serious and measured, and now I see you overreacting systematically. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u453	If there is a revocation document from the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group that I am not a parliamentary representative, then yes, I will.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u454	What can we do now? Because he wants to make a speech? Oh, no. I don't know that, sir, nor do I think a Member is cheating to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u455	From there on, all these fairy tales, which you've been filming here, like the guys we've heard before talking to us about bats, the bats are sharing them with the Golden Dawn, which are expressing you and which are your ideological content.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u456	Mr. Javarra, no matter how hard you try, you cannot justify what you say. Please, sit down. You're done! We won't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u457	We are liberal democrats. You should know that. If you haven't been informed, I'm telling you. We are liberal democrats, we respect our interlocutors and we demand that the Rules and the Constitution be observed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u458	You should tell your colleagues that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u459	I do. First of all I was not in the Bureau, Mr Javarra. Calm down and solve your party problems. If possible, we will meet and apologise to Mr. Javarra! Mr. Stylus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u460	Madam President, thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law on professional sport and other provisions. This is a bill which, according to the common report, does not give a concrete direction and a solution to the issues and issues that currently concern Greek sport. I list very specifically the issues that I believe to be the subject of today's public fans, federations, athletes and clubs: A first issue is the question of violence. A second issue is the operation of the championship, the operation of the football with the supervision that exists in the NPI, the Greek Football Federation, by UEFA and FIFA. We demand, we want and the fans demand a clean, transparent and honest championship that you cannot guarantee. The third issue I would like to mention, Mr President and honourable Members, is that we must have the development of sport. Ladies and gentlemen, last weekend we had violent incidents in a women's pole race. We had inadmissible images that the government has to explain, present us with its initiatives. How does it intend to take steps to finally limit these diversions? Answers to the committee have not been received. I raised this question, but this act of violence and vandalism in a women's pole is probably, as we all understand it, roots elsewhere. Everyone realises that the causes did not, however, relate to a misguided spirit of controversy in the town of women. The conclusion remains the same. The Government lacks a substantial, systematic and practicable policy in relation to dealing with the issues of violence in Greek sport. Unfortunately, instead of looking at these flaming issues, the relevant Ministry is taking action at another level, it is faithfully following its party priorities, seeking to make changes in the role of the state, against sport. We are talking about the statement of Greek sport. In my opinion, this should also be the title of today's bill. Therefore, instead of talking about issues of substance, in order to deal with possible fixed struggles, we have a pure and honest championship, we do not have violence in the courts and we let sport and federations grow free, you are tired of exercising control over the institutions and committees by means of state-run sports, that is to say, a Soviet type of sport. So let's go to the first provisions concerning the Committee on Professional Sport. You are turning the Committee on Professional Sports into a legal person governed by public law. I said that to the committee. You have done the same with the USSR. What have you done so far? The Czech Republic has not acted as a legal entity under public law. It works with the old regime before you legislate to convert it to a legal person governed by public law. So you are judged by the results and instead of being taught you come and repeat the same mistakes over and over again. In relation to the electoral systems, the Greek Olympic Committee, just last night, issued a communication. I have the ILO communication here. It says, therefore, that it discussed with the Minister, proposed over fifty amendments to the draft law and few of these fifty were accepted, most of them rejected. He also says something else very important, that he will appeal to the International Olympic Committee against this bill. We have told you, Minister, that there are provisions which are in conflict with the statutes and regulations of the federations of these same and unions, as the General Secretariat of Sports controls and approves and integrates our federations into the European Sports Federations and the World Sport Federations. So we're telling you you're in opposition. The Greek Olympic Committee tells you that you cannot, with the bill, preserve the viability of the Sports federations - I read just the words - of the seven thousand amateur unions from the throat of the inapplicable and unrealistic measures that the draft is being passed on to them. So you speak half an hour, Minister, and tell us that you are being cut off on Greek sport. You are told by the people who offer sport, by the ILO, by the federations and by the unions that they are opposed and you do not have the slightest sensitivity to say that I want to discuss with them, to choose, to come up with something, because sport should unite us and make us proud, not to find reasons and ways of confronting. I would therefore like to say, in the Minutes, that the ILO communication and I hope the Minister will take it into account now or in the future. [[At this point, the honourable Member, George Stylos, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The previous speaker, Mrs Bakoyannis, mentioned and told you that you would come to "vote" the bill when you would have other answers and decisions from the International Olympic Committee. That's why I told you that you're talking about and you're trying to stack sport, instead of helping him, give him space so that he can grow and move further. I would also like to mention that you are abolishing the Audit Committee from the General Secretariat of Sports and giving the competence, as you say and misinform here and the Members of the SYRIZA - and I ask them too - that it is established within the bill that the Public Administration Inspectorate-General is inspected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like two more minutes, Madam President. So I say to you that this committee is composed of twenty-one members who are employees of the General Secretariat of Sports and the Ministry of Finance, who know very well how to control federations, finances, how to operate and a number of other provisions. You say, therefore, that two public administration auditors will be able to do so. What means? I told you: equip this committee more. The rapporteur, Mrs Karamanlis, told you that you were in the country's governance for about four and a half years, so why didn't you run this committee? What are its results? You didn't come yesterday, you didn't take over yesterday to speak generally and vaguely. You need to make an account of your work and your things these four and a half years. It has not worked with your own government and you are moving on to another modification by creating a foggy landscape. Minister, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament tells you about the upside and the opposite of what you referred to a moment ago by the Step of the House. So either you - just you - have the absolute truth or the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, an institutional and independent body of trained scientists, knows what it says. You understand that the citizens are now aware of what is happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u461	Please finish, Mr. Style.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u462	I'll be done. SYRIZA's previous speaker, Madam President, spoke close to nine minutes. If you want, you're showing me a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u463	Ever since I came in, no one has been in any time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u464	In any case, there are few speakers in the bill. Why all this rush to close too quickly, not to tell people what we are talking about, what are we voting on, what is it about? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u465	Mr. Style, don't consume any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u466	I don't consume him. I'm closing my place. I also said about the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. So I note, Minister, that in practice you are operating, applying and doing the backwards of what you are proclaiming from the official Step and that is a total stop and operation of the SYRIZA. In relation to Philippine Union, I will say one thing which I have said in committee and it has not been corrected. The Minister comes and gives him the power to appoint the members of the General Assembly of the European Union. And I say, why are you taking over, Minister, all this burden? Why don't you say that we are going to choose aristide, some who are distinguished, in the particular sport that is special or I am going to set up a electoral procedure to choose them. Why are you getting all this load on you? And I told you - and the SYRIZA's brothers did not like it, because the truth doesn't like it many times - that appointment to a general organ assembly has been in our country since 1968. Excuse me very much, sport for us, for Greece, for the national team, for football, discrimination are things that unite us, which give us value, which make us proud. It is not a party policy, a dividing line policy. That is why we disagree with the bill. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u467	Mr. Black, you have the floor. You're always accurate in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u468	Thank you, Madam President. I shall try to keep the seven-minute time limit myself, and I shall be straight in our remarks on the draft law, most of which we have also expressed in the debate in committee. I'm starting at the first place. We are not at the outset negative in the development of the Committee on Professional Sport by a collective body to a legal person governed by public law in order to achieve its aims. But we attach importance to the organisation and staffing of the new body. In particular, in addition to the hearing and assent of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, as added by the Minister, we consider the open call procedure necessary and in the case of institutional representation to be met on the basis of a proposal from the respective institutions. With regard to the organization of sports clubs, associations and federations, there has indeed been a communication from the ILO, which I would like the Minister to comment on in his second language perhaps. The truth is that the style of the communication was quite acid, but not as acid as the representative of the Secretary-General of the Olympic Committee at the hearing of the bodies. The sure thing is that we, Potami, and I personally, want to see more good governance in sport, on the basis of what is being discussed in the Council of Europe, and I have also developed them in the committees. The Council of Europe is talking about criteria for good governance and integrity, and I am presenting you with the latest Council of Europe resolution entitled 'Towards a framework of modern sport governance', Danus Mongens Jensen, which is a food for thought. [[At this point, the Member, George Mavrotas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is where we see the framework which could be created and established by means of transparency, accountability, such as the publication of the federations on the agenda of the administrative boards, decisions and practices of the administrative boards, balance sheets and financial statements on the website of each federation. Such steps, that is, transparency and accountability are what we would like to see. There's a lot about opacity and it's certainly not possible that sports federations are black boxes, especially today in 2019. The bill has raised a number of issues. I know the introduction of the different lists to the antiquities, the gender quota and the limitation of the births of sports players. Let's go to the election system. One could argue that the government's proposals are an attempt at representative representation. However, we have another concern: does the different lists turn the elections into the sports area, as they have done in the trade unions and in the student room, into a purely party controversy. We therefore prefer the single ballot because we prefer people, people, against factions, and, in fact, we have proposed a single ballot with a tax vote, an alternative electoral system that prevents the directed crusade that occurs in cases of single voters. It is a system used in the elections of university councils successfully and is quite common in the Anglo-Saxon world. This system has the logic not of simple crusade but of a series of preferences for candidates to prevent directed crusade. If, however, this system is outdated, our next preference would be for the single vote again, but with a cross of 50% of the elected, in other words a little more than a third of you, so that there will be much more solid administrations and the criterion of representativeness to be "married" by the criterion of governance, which is what is called for in the electoral systems. On the issue of the gender quota, of course, there must be - and there have been - steps towards equality in sport. Obviously women are not sufficiently represented, as in the general population, in the positions of sport. But the quota is not panacea. Employment in sports administration must surely be voluntary. If not enough women want to be involved in the administration of a union, how will we deal with this with this specific legislative framework? What insurance logs will there be? We believe that the proposal of the federations for quota is only conditional on a minimum number of candidates being fairly realistic. We would also ask you to consider the proposal that we made in committee not for a compulsory quota but also for an equal treatment premium on the governing boards of the two sexes. To be a financing criterion for this equal representation rather than a forced one. We are in favour of restricting the mandates of sports actors. We understand - and I, as a man of sport, can say - the need for some people who have offered, continue to serve what they know and love. We accept their contribution to the various successes. However, they must also realise that there are no longer immortalities, not even in the ILO. They've set a limit for seventy years. I therefore think that there are other routes beyond the occupation of one of the executive positions mentioned by a board of directors, apart from having to clearly define what is an executive position on an administrative board and not leave it unclear. In Rule 35 - and I told the committee - the provision of another limit is left to the number of foreign players and athletes. And maybe you should see this again. For Article 42(4) which requires compulsory licensing by the federation for racing, I think that we are making the system a great deal red tape, we are state-run. And we should have some more flexible insurance, such as information or disclosure instead of compulsory licensing. In general, this bill has a tendency to overregulation the landscape. For the horse race - I told the committees as well - I believe that it is trying to find a golden incision. I think there will be consensus on the new system. We believe that this will put an end to the conflict that has led to the closure of the horse race, jeopardizing the work of two thousand to three thousand families. The Scientific Service of Parliament, however, indeed draws attention to the procedure to be followed in the event of inappropriateness of the Marcopoulou horse race. And I think that's something you should see. To conclude, Madam President, in my term of office as chairman of the Subcommittee on Education in Youth and Sport in the Council of Europe, what I see is the emphasis given at European and international level to concepts such as transparency, accountability, integrity, which must characterise the leaderships of the sport movement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. Governments are trying to converging with the sports movement and the sport movement is trying to converg with governments in order to find a modus operaandi that respects the principles of autonomy and accountability. And by closing to say that I think sport is a very serious case to get into the micro-party game. Nor, then, is anti-discrimination blinding us to the necessary rules for sport, nor should idealism prevail, creating deadlocks that we will find in front of us tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u469	Thank you, Mr Mavrotas, for the time. Mr. Excellency has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, violence, illegal bet, staged matches, "black" money are a movie scenario in the near future or the reality in professional sport? Wild landscape we met in sports and sports spaces but mainly outside of them. Since 2015 I have been placed in all the sports bills that came. Since 2015, our efforts have been started at all levels to restore oxygen and purity to the field of sport. It's a place that's suffocated by the dance of interlocutory that's been set up around him. Sports – commodity, sport – transaction and corruption field, sport - enrichment vehicle, concepts theoretically contradictory, but concepts that in practice are often identified, with sport becoming a link in a chain of interoperable media, political and business interests. Big players, big - hearted, and big - stalkers minimize sport, setting up food in a lucrative of corruption and illegal trade. And on the other hand, there are all those athletes who daily make our country proud of their excellent performance, who represent this healthy part of sporting work, discipline and high goals. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill introduces areas of professional sport. It establishes stronger supervision. It shall strengthen participation and transparency in the electoral procedures of sports organisations. At the same time, it ensures the integrity and transparency of Greek horse racing, setting out a new framework of operation for the Philippi Union of Greece. In the need for a stronger mechanism of control and supervision, we respond with the establishment of the Committee on Professional Sport as a separate legal person. Armed with wide powers of management and financial control and sanctions will make an effective contribution to the fight against opacity and corruption. By establishing a mere analogy to the archaeology of the unions, a stop to the ticks and the manipulation of a deep democratic intersection enters into the ticks. It was at least inappropriate on the part of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mrs Bakoyannis, that, with simple analogues, we are bringing communism into sport. While so far with the majority systems we have had monopartisanism. We also know each other in this country. We are doing equality and women's representation in sports administrations with the introduction for the first time of a gender quota. In crimes of violence in sport, the interference of justice becomes more immediate, with the possibility of imposing restrictive conditions on the defendant in the course of criminal prosecution for the duration of the proceedings. They are all provisions that implement our main objective of democratisation and reorganisation throughout sport in the wake of important interventions that we have already implemented to tackle violence on the ground, to upgrade sports infrastructure, to defend and safeguard sport as a basic social asset. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, we are reintroducing legitimacy, transparency and good governance in the field of sport. We break abscesses of the past, we correct the bad texts, we give solutions to issues that have been plunging for years to preserve the essence of sporting ideals, for a pure sport that is a model that will teach the fight, noble speech, the achievement of goals through hard slavery. For a sport entirely owned by the athlete, the coach, the fan, who won't become a payroll in the hands of some big-time players. We want the athlete to send the ball to the nets and not the hands that are traded under the table. So we know how to play ball, so we're going to continue every race we're giving on all the stadiums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u471	Thank you for the time, Mr Excellency. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] I am thinking of the image of the political leaders, who congratulate our athletes when they make us proud and conquer international discrimination, and this shows a picture of national unity and pride, and we should all have discussed it in such a way, the draft legislation envisaged, Minister, so that this national unity, homogeneity and the will of all of us to support amateur sport, which makes us proud of its success, to form a coherent framework of the process of operation of the whole system. We are afraid - our rapporteur, Mrs Kefalidou, explained - that this bill does not strengthen but affects amateur sport. There is the possibility of increasing intervention by state and control, and there is a chaotic and vague legislative framework with bureaucracy, interventions and various interpretations which are harmful to external intervention and to all kinds of sporting and non-sporting interests. We've been seeing them and living them all these years. We regret that, despite our good intentions with the position of our rapporteur in committee and today, there was no hearing. You gave no response to our arguments. You have not accepted any of our proposals. You did not respond to what our rapporteur, Mrs Kefalidou, has said from this point of view that Article 42 infringes a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities on self-organisation of sport and sports activities. This is my comment on the bill, and I do not want to be extended as, ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen, Minister, the way in which the debate in this House is organised these days gives us the opportunity to remember all of us, that this House is operating under rules laid down by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, and these rules are being violated by system. I had the opportunity at the beginning of the meeting to ask why, when Mr Paulakis presented his amendment to the EEA, in order to highlight so much the government's responsibilities for the way the legislative work is being prepared, since he only finished the Ministry of Health and Mr Paulakis's bill against the interests, washing them out by other regulations, brought us here a provision which is too great for the EEA, which he said is very important. I told the President-in-Office, Mr Bordenos, that it is also the Bureau's responsibility to put a measure on the table, because the Bureau represents the House, it is not the government's long hand, to put a measure on the ministers and on the way they introduce the regulations. Mr Bored instead, as someone who is presided over at a meeting, to refer to the difficulties of the government, sometimes to the difficulties of legislative work and, in any case, to ask for an understanding, he has told us that we are a majority, so we will do what you want. I would like to support this step - and I repeat that - for us will also be the subject of intervention at the Conference of Presidents and others if this process continues. And are you going to tell me, ladies and gentlemen, what I'm saying now, is a pluralist character or is it about the substance of the legislative work, ladies and gentlemen? So let us take the great amendment tabled by Mrs Papanatsiou, which has been presented to us very shortly, for a minute, concerning the AIA. You know the AIA, ladies and gentlemen, is our state's central nervous system. It is about confirming and collecting public revenues, that is, it is about the great battle we have fought as a country, to exalt the public finances of our country, because, as you know - not many years ago exactly nine years ago - the deficit was 35 billion on an annual basis. We have succeeded in zeroing it all over again, and now the government is taking over over the surpluses, that is, instead of keeping it in balance, it has paid more taxes and extra contributions, to have surpluses and to share any benefits. So is this amendment for ADI coming and what is it, ladies and gentlemen? A system that you handed over to lenders - why you did not make the public collection and authentication of public revenue independent, but which you made it a company, put it a board of directors and supervisors from our partners - is coming here to give forgiveness if it is proved that there was a loss of public revenue, damaged private data or even made public. I wanted to ask Mrs Papanatsiou, if she was here, but the way we legislate does not allow me to ask her, because this major issue had to come to the Committee on Economic Affairs. Mrs Papanatsiou and Mr Minister, we discussed the fact that some six to seven thousand large tax evasion cases have been ignored here last time. What is this about, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? It is about the arrangement that you voted on in 2015 and you took thirty-five thousand cases that the ILO had and took them to the ADP. And because there, they smacked and threw fat salt and remained the same, the five-year period that had to be checked and a multitude of them had to be erased. They even say that among those who have been written, they are majestic factors that pass through the side door at the Maximos Mansion. It's you who bailed against interests. And, of course, after that, the administration with its decisions returned again sixteen thousand of these cases. I have the ministerial decisions one - one measured and five to six thousand missing. But still the question is. Of these twenty-nine thousand who have been returned, how many of them have been deleted, what was the loss of public revenue and why we are coming now - yes, right - to release criminal responsibilities, the desert of the official who gave him a box of cases, and who did not even have the chance to open this box and write it down, but to acquit them in advance, and the administration of the ADP and the commander, because in these decisions he has made he has harmed the public interest. I'm not saying he hurt it with deceit, but I can have good chances tomorrow to control it. Why are you doing this in advance? It's a matter. Let me tell you something else. Recently with your own legislation, which we voted on in expressing some reservations, we have conducted the mass organisation of the financial data of thousands of, millions of taxpayers, creating a mass record with the financial data of each taxpayer, namely bank accounts, electronic transactions, investment products, credit contracts. And the AIA administration took over this file to organize and safeguard it, because you realize what interests are being debated for the knowledge of this file investment, financially and so on. And you are now coming to me here with the first paragraph of the Ministry of Finance amendment, to exempt the administration of the AAR if this file leaks. It is not the same, if the official responsible for the investigation asks the prosecutor for financial control to open the accounts of a suspect for tax evasion. This is a massive record of millions of cases. Shouldn't we be serious about this? And yes, I repeat, not to blame the officials when the responsibilities are political, but don't even tell us that you do all that well. I also wanted to say, in relation to the other amendment, that you are reducing the share tax from 15% to 10%. First of all, you did it from 10% to 15%, at the time you fought capital on the basis of your class approaches. So now you're actually landing, you're talking to the industrial associates, with the shareholders, and you're turning it to 10%. Question. Will this reduction in taxation, ladies and gentlemen, contribute to growth? Does it create additional incentives for investment to create jobs? Because if you wanted to talk about this dimension, you should bring in the proposal for a law of the Change Movement, which we have tabled since September and which the Bureau of the Parliament has not taken it to discuss, too, in breach of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, so that we can see that we have to reduce taxation on small businesses from twenty-nine to twenty-six. He was twenty-six and you did it twenty-nine. To exempt young people from the trade tax and the contributions to create new jobs. To reduce the tax on farmers, to reduce the contributions that you have combined with the cigarette and they all flow into tax evasion. To motivate, when jobs are created, as we have proposed, by increasing expenditure by 50% and a number of others. But you don't. You are not having a substantial debate. You're bringing in fragmentary arrangements. You have a majority of fifty-five of a SYRIZA composed and everything else you have collected and voted on without any substantive debate and without any representation. It is therefore very serious that the issues are opened every time in the way in which we discuss the bills and the amendments which are being tabled. Because I do not want to make any comment on the time for the President, I will make a parable. All the speakers from the government and the Minister spoke more than twice as much time. I want to stay in time, and I say this, ladies and gentlemen. This morning Mr Tsakalotos celebrated the country's exit to the markets and the release of the links to the memoranda. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how much that costs us 3.9% for this decade? Over a billion. And why does it cost us? Because interest rates in all countries are going down, as forecast growth rates - see OECD communication today - are too low for the next decade. The interest rate we have achieved is more than three times the rest of the countries, Portugal and others, which have come out of the memoranda. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Therefore, not only should you not celebrate, but also interpret it on the basis of what you say, such as that you are trusted by the markets and not on the basis of what the New Democracy says, dear Mr Javarra, that they give confidence - it says - to the upcoming government. Because the upcoming government, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, is under the work and the bonds that Mr Tsipras has undertaken. The overcrowdings of 3.5% mean 7 billion on an annual basis and the commitment of public property for a hundred years. I'm sorry for ninety years so I don't have to fight with Mr. Chakaloto again. So do not fight for the work that those who started reducing public deficits by burdening the Greek people, thanks to whose sacrifices we have achieved these results. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u473	Mr Pallis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u474	Who's gonna save us from the saviors, I don't know, Madam President. I hope Mr. Koutsoukos considers himself a savior. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only speak of an article in the bill on a worthy article for us. The Minister made an extensive speech on the whole bill, so I will speak on Rule 35, which I know that he himself, and Mr Psychoyos himself, have been very persistently involved and have worked so that we can talk about something different. Article 35. Article 35, therefore, is the replacement of paragraph 7 of Article 33 of the well-known Law 2725/99, which says to the Greek amateur championships of local regional or pan-German level and to the Greek sports clubs of individual or group sports may take part in homogeneous citizens of a Member State of the European Union, citizens of third countries and stateless persons who are legally resident in the country with a residence permit. They have, of course, submitted an application for a residence permit and citizens or stateless persons residing in the countries either as beneficiaries of international protection or as applicants for international protection.’ And with the corresponding legislative improvement that the Minister has put forward at the beginning of the debate, it specialises the persons referred to in the first subparagraph and what the documents required are. Why am I saying all this? I say this because I will not go into the obvious examples of well-known athletes who honor the colors of national Greece, I will refer to people I have known, to people who fight for their lives, and sport is another way out for them for their survival. I shall refer to these people who, because of the refugee issue, have been caught in our islands, and I have personal experience and knowledge of how this provision of Article 35 will contribute, from now on, to a collective effort that is being made and we are very proud of it, to guarantee and uninterrupted participation in amateur championships and mass sport, which is a follow-up to the actions of the General Secretariat of Sport, which has done an excellent job through the ASPIRE programme aimed at the integration of migrants and refugees, but which also responds and implements a demand for a multitude of unions, both the Association of Football Associations and other sports. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen - and I will be very brief and will close much earlier than planned time - to address two experiences, which are also personal experiences. I'm going to talk to my friend Hussein. It'll sound strange in the Chamber. He's a refugee recognized by Morocco. Morocco is not a country which has the refugee flows at large because of racial origin. He is in our country for over ten years, with discrimination in his personal sport in Morocco, which has been struggling for ten years not exceptionally in the races but as an equal athlete. I will refer to another attempt, launched in September 2016 in Lesvos, with those who were then locked in for more than a year, mainly African citizens from third countries with the implementation of the Treaty - the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey - and the long-term caging of people. That's when Cosmos FC Lesvos was created. At Cosmos FC Lesvos, ladies and gentlemen, until now, they have found a roof in difficult to tragic daily living conditions by season - and to recognise this - over 200 fifty athletes who have found humanity in their daily lives, dignity, for the few hours they have been at work, but mostly have found their dream. Today forty athletes are working out and waiting for their integration into several Lesvos football clubs. I must also tell you that sixty unaccompanied minors, who are hosted in Lesvos structures, are waiting for their integration into a programme first to facilitate their integration into a programme in parallel with their hospitality into structures of minors so that they can enter organised sport. I'm not talking about professional sport, I'm talking about amateurs. And I'm talking about the locals, who, along with these children, give their battles to other people's lives, and I'm talking about my friend George, who has saved his life, because he has access to the health system - and others with these children give the battle and only then the battles are victorious. Ladies and gentlemen, the sporting spirit and coexistence of people are the ones that build social ties, they are the ones that liberate us, which make us better people. So we choose to be better people, choose to live with our fellow humans, choose a better tomorrow for our country. Mr Minister, congratulations on this initiative and the provision, in addition to the entire bill that is excellent. It's another excellent provision from our government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u475	Thank you, Mr. Palley. Mrs. Scouffa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u476	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address three issues that are dealt with in this bill. First and foremost, I would like to say that it is very important to reintroduce a higher supervisory mechanism, the Committee on Professional Sport, an institution which is already in existence, but which is absolutely essential to have greater powers of management and financial control and sanctions. Even those not so relevant or active in the field of sport, we know that, unfortunately, the area of professional sport is at the same time also a place where, unfortunately, both globally and globally, they embody phenomena of opacity, corruption, interactivity, manipulation of races etc. That is why it is extremely necessary to strengthen the supervisory role of the Committee on Professional Sport, which is now a legal person governed by public law and which is subject to the supervision of the Minister responsible or responsible for sport. Of course it also falls under the control, as the Minister of the relevant parliamentary committee said. The main core of the thought of this regulation is that sport is about all citizens. And as such, it belongs to the public sphere. Consequently, supreme supervision and sport in accordance with paragraph 9 of Article 16 of the Constitution belongs - and must belong - to the State as the institution of organised society. We consider the legislative initiative on the quota to be 1/3 in the representation of both sexes in the administrations of sports organisations of all levels and not just of sports federations. Observations were expressed at the meetings of the Committee in relation to this measure. It has been said, for example, that the measure in force in the 20% quota for women is too much. Experience, however, disproves those who claim that. It is true that on the stadiums and on the stadiums of every sport and event, from practice to major sports events, we see a multitude of women or mothers joining their sports children and inspiring them either the athletes or the coaches. Women have a maximum and a great deal of active involvement in sport. However, when we see the highest administrative bodies in the field of sport, we are also underrepresented by women. As has already been mentioned, of the thirty-two members of the Hellenic Olympic Committee only the two are women, of which only one is here. I am a member of the parliamentary committee on issues of equality, youth and human rights. In many of our meetings we have noted the fact that while we are the largest part of the population in Greece - despite this most important fact - our participation in senior administrative posts and in positions of responsibility is minimal to nothing. That is why, in one of our meetings, the Council of Europe's recommendations were the so-called OECD toolbox, a toolbox in which we were called upon as a committee to table proposals. And the OECD imposes - if you want - or suggests that Greece too and, of course, the participation of women in senior administrative posts should also be strengthened. That is why we believe that the 30% quota measure is not panacea, but it is an important measure to strengthen our public representation and to highlight our ability to run, to be responsible and to make public decisions. We therefore welcome this legislation and expect others in this direction. The provisions of Articles 26 and 28 are also extremely important as they ensure that the right to participate and vote in the general meeting of the sports club is exercised by all those who are members of the club for at least one full year before the date of their registration. In this way, of course, it seeks to avoid membership before the gates of the general assembly, a record which has the effect of displaying false many times and in any case of altering the election result. Article 28(1) also provides that the sports clubs - members of the association, who have received special athletic recognition and have a minimum of racing activity on the basis of official games. In all those who are active in the field of sport, it is known that there is the very unfortunate phenomenon of unions - seal. The aim of this regulation is therefore to remove or, at least, to limit this phenomenon. It has been criticised for paragraphs 5 and 6 of Article 26, according to which the antiquities of sports bodies are carried out either by a single ballot and yet with a maximum crossing of 1/3 of all election posts or by separate ballots and where the number of candidates for each ballot is at least equal to 1/3 of the voting positions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in every debate here in Parliament when it comes to simple analogy, we find out from large pieces of counter-population, from Skills and from the Change Movement, an allergy to simply proportional. The argument put forward by both local and self-government elections and "Kleedhenes" or now by the sports bill is that simply proportionally, governmentality is not guaranteed, strong and effective administrations are not guaranteed. And I would like to ask you again: if what you say is true, then why in many European countries has already been cultivated and fully consolidated, to an absolute extent, the culture of cooperation and consensus? Do the administrations that operate under the principle of one man eventually make it easier for some? Do we want to support this regime, or do we want to have a more genuine representation, a glow if you want, a strengthening of the same democracy and of real and genuine representation? I want to finish with a comment under Article 35, which gives the opportunity to participate in all sporting matches and in all sports to homosexuals, citizens of a Member State of the European Union, citizens of a third country who have a residence permit in force or hold a certificate to lodge an application for a residence permit and to beneficiaries or applicants for international protection. In this regulation, we believe, and in what sense, that not only the normal social integration of foreigners residing in our country, but also the sporting potential of Greek unions and sports in general, is being strengthened. For us, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, sport should unite and no longer separate us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u477	Thank you. Now Mr. Cavadas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u478	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have been discussing a bill that we have been awaiting for three years, following the characteristic delay with which all the bills of the SYRIZA Government come. We expected that after this long delay, the government would bring the new sports law to a discussion. This bill, of course, is not the new sports law, it's just another string of setups and photographic provisions. You have been accustomed to this lately, ladies and gentlemen of the government, now that the elections are coming and that you will soon be in elections where you have started, bringing to Parliament bills that have no single structure, are badly written, and that are still closed. And it happens, ladies and gentlemen, that we are discussing today a bill from the Ministry of Culture and Sport following the shocking incidents of violence last weekend in many sports areas. We had heavy fan tide in Nice in the 3th National Class Football Championships, "Papastrateio" clashes in a women's pole race and clashes in Aegaleo in a basketball game of the A2 National Championship. We are talking, in other words, about a generalised situation which is getting worse and worse, while the state is absent. Of course, we do not distinguish these incidents from the general climate of lawlessness that exists in the country and which your Government tolerates. When, on a daily basis, groups of people, every sound of "Rubics", in this country can enter anywhere and break them undisturbed, then the phenomenon of violence is expanding and growing. So I will start my criticism of this bill from the articles on violence, because I think it is one of the biggest challenges the state has to face in all sports events. Minister, your decision to delete fines imposed on clubs a year ago on 20-11-2017- is that - in volleyball groups after serious incidents, it was certainly wrong and certainly does not give the right message. Of course, the articles that provide for restrictive conditions for those accused of violence in sport are in the right direction, and that is why we support them. But they are not enough alone to solve the problem of violence in the field of sport, since you have not taken any preventive measures. I continue with the article on the Committee on Professional Sport, which is converted, without cost, into a legal person governed by public law. This is an unnecessarily heavy burden on the state budget, opening a window to various rushphetological possibilities. You have an elbow, an idealism, and you think that solutions come with the creation of new structures in the public sector, while the only thing that you actually succeed is simply to be in a position to "left" on government-paid boards. Also, in the draft law, the members of the committee will be appointed and ceased by the Minister himself, which, as we all understand, makes it a body of the Minister by removing its independence. In addition, the article on the quota for women is moving in the wrong direction. Of course we must encourage more women to engage actively in sport, but with the forced quota of 1/3 of candidates for the board of directors in unions and associations imposed by the draft law, forced presence of women will lead to formality and not to their genuine involvement. It is also possible for women to refuse to stand, with a visible risk that it will not be possible to run an administration. Then, with Article 26, you are imposing a crusade of up to 30% of the election posts on federations, associations and unions. The unions and associations, Minister, want strong administrations, which will work for the development of union and sport and not for the creation of correlations. In attempting to interfere in sport, you will create serious organizational problems and will cause uninhabited sport pyramid. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on a very important and dangerous issue, which I believe opens up this draft law. I am referring, of course, to the provision for the participation of shareholders in the management of professional sport. You give, Minister, the possibility for shareholders of bet companies to hold up to 15% and run teams at the same time as the owner of a PDO agency and its relatives to a second degree cannot be a club member whose matches are offered for betting. This provision may affect the credibility of the championships and will certainly intensify the suspicion of the fan media. We therefore urge you once again to withdraw this provision. Gentlemen of the government, instead of bringing such provisions for small-party benefit, you should see the big issue of the total lack of funding and strengthening of amateur unions. I would remind you that when you were in the opposition, you were protesting about the economic indifference and depreciation of these associations, which, throughout Greece, are keeping our youth away from misery and promoting the athletic ideal. It is therefore necessary to find a way to fund amateur associations, to support them, and not to oblige them with this bill simply in search of new financial resources, so that they can amend their statutes. And on the occasion, Minister, I would like to mention two issues which have been considerably delayed in Lefkada. The reconstruction of the stadiums of Lefkada and the repair of the closed gym of Lefkada. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We are talking about two important projects that have stopped. As I am aware, while since December a programme contract between the municipality and the Ministry has been requested, you have still not been approved. The payment of the contractors has also been delayed for five months, with the result that the projects do not continue and that there is a significant problem both in the teams and in the athletes. I am well aware of your sensitivity, Minister, and I would like you to deal with this so that these two important projects for the Lefkada Prefecture can be completed. In conclusion, I would like to make a more general comment on the bill. It's another bill of government SYRIZA, based on left-wing ideological claws. State intervention in sport remains unchanged, and you are again making sure to bring your favourite photographic provisions, with a clear aim to satisfy your electoral clientele. For these reasons, we are therefore voting against the draft legislation in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u479	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Panayota Dricelli, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u480	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to be short. I understand the fatigue of all colleagues. It was a difficult day today with enough legislative work. I shall begin with a more general statement on the attitude of counter-population in general, which is simply Greek. While we hear from colleagues in the Opposition that they want more general consensus and pursue dialogue, they have a record based on a logic that is incomplete but does not convince anyone. By 2015 we all lived in a paradise and suddenly the evil SYRIZA came and destroyed it all! In this regard in sport by 2015 on the stadiums we saw happy family moments, fanatical violence did not exist, corruption, 'paraga', set toys! All this is just novels! Since 2015, all this reality! I really don't know who you can convince, but I know that it serves a specific political strategy, especially the New Democracy and the KINAL. In this way, and self-criticism, we are not doing that, in fact, nothing happened all the previous years, but we are throwing mud and whoever understood it, understood it. We should understand, however, that especially the Greek sporting world, the actors of healthy sport expect specific solutions from the political system to be found in the pathogens that are afflicting the sporting community. Violence and hooliganism in sport are phenomena which cannot be tolerated by anyone and in this context, not only at the level of repression but also at the level of prevention, we should take the right measures. Obviously the images that we saw at the "Papastrateio" but also at other shows and in the neighborhoods of Athens last weekend and not only, concern us. At the same time, however, we must all be held accountable to the sports community and to society, which, in any case, expects us to fight a multi-level battle against violence and hooliganism. Magic sticks, obviously, do not exist and it would be utopia to claim that, with a law, we can impose something that takes too much time to become culture and attitudes in Greek society. Wonderful solutions, obviously, and fanatical violence, of course, but corruption in sport is a phenomenon which is multi-level and which is solved only by concrete and legislative, but also by social intervention. Of course, the political level at which we are called upon here to fight has always been, but it will also be whether the governments in question, beyond the findings, are moving on to specific initiatives in order to deal with these black spots that are stirring at sport but also to cure wounds which affect both the prestige of sport and the staff involved. Ladies and gentlemen, we should all realise beyond any micro-party feasibility that there was a model of governance in sport, which was weighed, measured and found incomplete. That is what we have to resolve today, and that is what we all have to answer. And on this critical social front this bill comes to give answers, which can also contribute to the resolution and prevention and democratisation of sport. The consolidation of democratic functioning in the institutions of sport and sports organisations, even though some do not evaluate them as absolutely important, are elements of a primary response to the problem of violence in sport. The horizontal organisation of sport, democracy, equality, rights is the basis for the healthy functioning of the sport community The truth is that with this government, sport governance has become more democratic and society's involvement in sport and institutions has become much wider. Whether it is the fight against doping or the resolution of professional football or the fight against corruption and fraud, the current government has fought, tried and guaranteed significant successes in sporting governance. This bill comes to go on this way. The democratic functioning of sports organisations, the rights of athletes, transparency and democratic accountability are some of the areas strengthened by the arrangements of this draft law. The cell of sports life, the base of sport, the sports club is institutionally strengthened and manipulated by closed elite. The change of the system of antiquities in unions, the proportional representation in the institutions of sport governance, the fight against manipulation of sports federations by closed clubs are steps in a progressive direction. Controlling sports operators in cooperation with the Chief Inspector for Public Administration is a huge step towards consolidating transparency and credibility in sport. The gender quota in the sports representation bodies is also a large intersection. In a sporting society where women are a vital part, it is not understood that their participation in positions of responsibility should be so low. So there, where established attitudes do not allow the base of sport to be expressed, the state comes to legislate to pull sport forward. We have heard some particularly from the Civic Opposition to disagree - and also from KINAL, the rapporteur, Mrs Kefalidou - with the mere proportionalness to federations and the gender quota and with the participation of the Public Administration Inspectorate-General in the effort to ensure transparency in sport. I would like to say, however, here: I find it extremely unacceptable, the way in which the opposition bases its arguments on the gender quota in the administrations of sports organisations. A concept that says or accepts a priori the assumption that the woman's presence will simply be decorative and describes it as "glastra", is extremely insulting. I will not say whether there are men who are 'glazers' at the moment - I say this in introductory terms, because I do not like the expression at all - whether men and women can be pawns of a federation, a club, a union. But I will say that we owe as National Representation if we want to say that we belong to a favoured state, open the way and broaden all the social horizons, but also to safeguard by whatever means the constitutional rights of Greek citizens can be guaranteed regardless of their gender. Of course everyone who blames us is also the same who rush to accuse us of inertia because they simply find it but they do not want to act, they do not want to be displeased or displeased, they do not want to disturb the waters of stillness and the status quo. The strengthening of the institutional and regulatory role of the Committee on Professional Sport is also a great step forward towards strengthening the credibility of professional sport. Its transformation into a legal person governed by public law with its participation in its formation and the Parliament, since its duties will also be passed by the Committee on Morphic Affairs, can lead essentially to the deepening of the work of the committee, which, as we have already said, will be assisted by the Chief Inspector-General of Public Administration. The Committee on Professional Sport is called upon to ensure both the validity and transparency and the good administration, the most popular part of sport, that is, in professional championships. The question here is whether the New Democracy wants greater transparency in these areas. If, indeed, he wants such a development, he will have to prove it and clearly support the arrangements of this bill. This bill comes to broaden both the rights of the sport community and the athletes themselves, giving priority to positive examples of social inclusion and a fight against racism and tolerability. This is also the essence of the regulation, of course, which consolidates the right of refugees, stateless persons and beneficiaries of international protection to participate in the country's championships. The government stands alongside these children, who are against the adversities and injustices of life, even beginning with hospitality centres, have managed to distinguish themselves in sport, gain their place in large groups and today offer a positive example to society and especially to the new generation. In this direction, all the provisions on Philippian Union and the Hippodrome should also contribute to the normalisation of the situation. I don't want to say much because I don't want to abuse time. In any case, the Minister, Mr Vassiliou, seems to have mentioned this quite well. I would like to say two words about the amendments, not about the substance, because in any case, the opposition has avoided commenting on it, because it should at some point tell us whether it is with the social state and with welfare, whether it is generally with transparency or not, and whether or not it simply wants to create impressions. I would like to refer to the amendment tabled to strengthen the real economy. The Ministry of Finance implements a commitment to reduce the tax and withholding on corporate dividends. This arrangement does not come as lightning in hunger. It comes because it seeks to regulate the competitiveness of Greek businesses, and is essentially part of the overall package of positive measures that seal our exit from the memorandum. They are obviously important provisions and amendments tabled by Mr Petropoulos on classic health books. We are essentially talking about a modernisation of public administration. We have not heard a clear position in this either from New Democracy. I would like to say something to Mr Koutsukouko, who has been here for nine minutes, in fact, talking about Mrs Papanatsiou's amendment to the AIA. What does the amendment say? It says that these arrangements concerning the Board of Directors of the Independent Public Revenue Authority are necessary in order to align the existing specific framework of responsibility which these persons bear with the generally applicable provisions and with the specific provisions applicable to other audit authorities. It is not, in other words, a headline for the officials of the Public Income Authority. I would also like to say to Mrs Bakoyannis, who actually did not read her, from what I understood, she simply came here to tell us that we should be more careful and at least take the deceit, that the amendment says: 'In particular, as regards the criminal liability envisaged, it becomes clear that she is only being haunted if the person concerned is doing so in treacherously or in order to provide themselves...', etc. I don't want to say any more. In any case, all I wanted to say is that when we choose to make a criticism, at least we have very good and concrete arguments. Finally, I am not going to deal with the other issues, nor with the bond, etc. Anyway, we're gonna have, I guess, a long time to talk about this. I mean, however, that Greece - and it is clear as much as some feel uncomfortable - leaves the crisis behind. It creates sustainable development and deepens its democratic reconstruction in all areas of social activity. And with this compass, we will continue to work towards democratic armouring of sport and the sporting community, but also with the whole society around us. We are sure that we will succeed, and with more firm steps we will regain sport social good and available to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u481	Now Mr. Fotillas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u482	Thank you, Mr President. Two provisions were adopted by this government, the 'first-time left' government, where both provisions relate to gambling. The first one is in today's bill. It's the arrangement that says that those who have bet companies can also have teams. So it's like we're gonna put the wolf on guarding the sheep. The second provision is in an older bill, but it also relates to gambling. It was her "first time left" again, who gave and enables casino players to borrow from the casino. In other words, the casino has now legislated on the "first time left" - to lend the players, as long as they play them at that time. Think we could've brought it, Mr. Javarra, we couldn't have gotten out of our house! It does not really make me any impression that the government instead of a new, codified, simple, understandable and easy to use in the application of sporting law, has again preferred to legislate with scorpically provisions, which are often against each other. So simple and easy to use is this bill, which you see, for example, with the Committee on Professional Sports, this particular draft law has taken twenty-four articles to abolish the three existing sport law. So instead of doing the three two, we made it twenty-four. Nor, of course, am I surprised by the conversion of the General Secretariat of Sports by a simple committee into a legal person governed by public law, without a study and without a budget cost, while the recruitment and award of projects to external consultants are provided for. Yesterday, in the health bill, you took a legal person under private law and made it public law, CEDEFOP, and an IAN address, which made it a legal person of private law. Today you're ending it. You take a simple committee and make it a legal person governed by public law! I mean, absolute statism. I am not the one to claim that in the past there was no infraction and violence on the stadiums. But never before in post-population there was such an extensive instability and never again any government has failed its policy on sport and never has football ever been used as by the current government to serve small-party pursuits. For amateur sport that the current government is supposedly being cut off for the sustainability of thousands of sports clubs, and here legislation is a huge disappointment. Written provisions that do not touch the essence of problems and do not give solutions, on the contrary make associations, unions and federations difficult. Indeed, Minister, I wanted to know how you considered putting a provision that the Minister or any other government or administrative body would give instructions to a president of an independent authority. It says, of course, that they may not be binding. Think it was binding, that is. We would say what the President of the independent authority will do! And, of course, once again, the application of provisions such as the fan card and the online ticket are referred to the bells. In relation to the two amendments which have been tabled, I would like to say the following. First of all, let's say it's unprecedented. Two days a health bill is being discussed in plenary, and finally Mr Paulakis brings an amendment to health in a bill unrelated, and two days he could bring it here! And why is that so? It is clear that Mr Paulakis seeks to bring the parliamentary procedures to fruition. The question is, Madam President, not you personally, I mean the Bureau of Parliament, because it allows Mr Polakis to constantly defy parliamentary procedures. With regard to the first amendment by the Ministry of Labour, No 2022/49, 'Consolidating the topics of the Ministry of Labour on detailed periodic statements', paragraph 2 also has a regulation concerning the Ministry of Health - and we agree that it has been necessary for some time now - to combat bureaucracy. It does not, however, include the electronic signature of doctors and pharmacists. The second amendment tabled by Mr Polakis, 2023/50, which deals with the regulation of issues of the EEA and of the Ministry of Health, contains problematic provisions, except for Article 4, which refers to the necessary dental care. And here, however, it is a semimeter, because we as a New Democracy in our programme have presented a comprehensive programme of dental care. Ladies and gentlemen, I close - and I would like Mr Vassiliadis to be here - with something that burns me, with something that burns all the Achaios. And, of course, I am referring to the Mediterranean coastal Games to be held in Patras in the summer of 2019. It is a project in which our city, and more generally the Prefecture of Achaias, has invested many, a project that is a wonderful opportunity to regenerate our region. And while one would expect that machines should be in the full, infrastructure projects to be in full progress, reality is different and sad. Even today there is no sign that Patra will host the Mediterranean coastal Games. A nail hasn't been nailed, it hasn't screwed a screw. Of course we know the work, you will come to five, tell us that everything needs to be done directly, I will be in a difficult position to say 'yes', because otherwise my town will lose the coastal struggles and we will all be fine. And what do we see today? Instead of seeing plays, we see resignations. Recently, the manager of the coastal organisation resigned and yesterday a member of the committee resigned. And they quit, of course, because they see that delays are such that make the work impossible. We risk, Minister, becoming the laughter of the whole Mediterranean. Patra and Achaia are in danger of losing a unique opportunity for development and promotion. And if that happens, this failure will have a name and that will be yours, Minister. Do not allow, Minister, your name to be linked to a huge fiasco and, above all, do not allow Achaia instead of being advertised to be discredited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u483	I will give the floor to Mr Georgiadis, a parliamentary representative of the Union of Centres, because he will succeed me in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u484	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the remark, once again, that lately, apart from the amendments we have in our hands - and I will comment on them during my speech - the draft law is tabled in illegitimate, sketchy, forgotten four years in drawers. You come to about five, not to say five, to solve things in fast track procedures either by emergency or urgent procedures. In the morning we have the committee, the bodies at noon, the evening on the next committee and the next day in plenary. It all goes like this, it is in a sloppy state, we are also benefiting parliamentarianism in this way, and we cannot really place and solve any problem at the end of the day. This is the case with this draft law. In fact, in about five, you bring in a draft law which, in fact, does not solve all the problems. It has positive provisions and I shall refer to them as well, but the chronic problems encountered in the field of sport are not solved. And one example of what I am saying is that the accompanying explanatory statement, in which, in fact, you are starting with two pages and mentioning how many things have been done internationally in the fight against corruption, interactivity, lawlessness and, more generally, what foreign countries have done and there is not even a single mention of what we have done, very simply because nothing has happened. Even in the same explanatory statement, with an elegant wording, you have targeted yourself as a government, and who is responsible for the general inaccuracy of sport and corruption. It is, as you have told us, the legal form of the Committee on Professional Sport, which you have been caring for for four years for, and that is not what does not work as a public authority. Of course, as usual, you woke up from lethargy and from inappropriateness and want to go from one end to another within one day and in a conversation. And what do you do now to solve this problem? You create this committee, you turn it into a legal person under public law with a number of planned ministerial decisions, you will make organograms with addresses, names, organic recommendations, the right to hire indefinite time and, more generally, of external consultants of companies and so on, and there will be once again your accusations that a rousphetological orgy is taking place in the light of an election campaign, because very simply four years you have done nothing and you are going to do it now. And I'm not just talking about your bill, Minister, I'm talking more generally, so you don't get it on staff. Proof of the dubiousness of the legislature is that, at least, dozens of articles on coaches and gymnastics after consultation have been removed, about fifty, and we do not know where they are and why they are. A draft law on sport, which, in particular, deals with the professional and cell of sport, which is amateur sport, is nowhere and no improvement and no debate, was tabled. And we are talking about amateur sport, which employs thousands of athletes and participating citizens, and we know how many problems there are even economic survival. And you, Minister, every day where you are and where you stand on any organization, any representation, come and get you and ask for financial support and do everything you can, of course, but you know the problems that our athletes face. And as I said to be objective, there are also positive aspects in this draft law, such as, for example, the publication on the website of the Board's decision-making committee, the management and accounting control provided for by sporting anonymous companies and sections of paid athletes, the creation of the electronic platform, the new responsibilities of the Committee for the Enforcement of Fines and disciplinary proceedings, the limitation of the term of office to executive posts in the federations, the increase in the percentage of women's participation in the boards. It is also positive that in the committee responsible you, Minister, have assured and recognised that there is a problem in the context of the qualifications and studies of coaches and that you said that it will come to the consultation and that a proposal from the National Physical Education Associations is being prepared, which is in progress, and we hope that this will come and be in the right direction. However, we do not consider it necessary for specific responsibilities of the General Secretariat of Sports and federations to be transferred to the Ministry of Tourism, since it does not add anything to sport, the so-called right to any individual, to organise sports events without approval by the state's official sports bodies, namely the General Secretariat of Sports or the federations. Indeed, there is a reason in this bill for some of us to be unacceptable and unprecedented, such as the provision of Article 22, to allow sports limited companies to participate in official matches, even if they have not received a certificate from the Committee on Professional Sports, provided that they are able to pay a fine for each race. We really would like an explanation, because we may not understand it well. You explained it in your speech. I would like you to explain that, if you say in the end that championships will be judged by those who have to pay cash. In any case, I do not want to believe this, but, indeed, I would like to understand it a little better and I personally and in general as the Central Association. We also consider it scandalous to favour and facilitate shareholders of betting companies, with the invention of the main shareholder of 15% to hold positions of responsibility in amateur clubs and sports anonymous companies. Let's go to the Hippodrome, which in our personal conversation has seen positive and negative, and we've found that both sides have their so-called right to say. The Hippodrome is in a problem right now. It has been closed since the end of the year and is in anguish for their survival around the three thousand families. We cannot really understand how it can contribute to solving the problems of the institution in general, the increase by two members of the representatives of the "PRODUCTS S.A." in the Board of Directors. At the same time, the equal number of members of the "Philippi Association of Greece". What is easily distinguished and mentioned by many colleagues is that, in fact, the controlled person is transformed into a verifier. That's what we're afraid of. We made a proposal to you in committee. Today, our rapporteur, in his speech, proposed that the eleven members should share four of the "Philippos Union of Greece" - from six to four - and that the "Philippos S.A." and the Ministry remain to the two members. So we'll have eight. The remaining three members may enter several bodies. For example, one member should be from horse rattlers, the second from owners and the third from coaches. As to who will represent them, it could be someone through election or take the official bodies and have them to be the ones with the largest number of members. We believe that this proposal would solve some problems, both earlier and new, and, in fact, it would aim to upgrade the races, contribute to the better use and development of the Hippodrome and its management. Another issue that we consider to be very negative is the provisions on violence, which are clearly added too much without any plan, for the eyes of the world to us, since in recent years, in fact, the government has been monitoring as a mere commentator from television all the facts of violence. We're seeing arbitration attacks. We see attacks and generalised episodes in local championships even in women's polo matches, the authorities do not intervene as they are entitled to, and no one deals with the international symbiosis of our country. I would like to say a few words about the amendments that have been introduced once again at the last minute. I am starting with Amendment 2005/46 on AIA. Minister, there are some reservations about the privileged treatment of ADP officials, including the administration of criminal, civil and disciplinary responsibility. We do not think that such changes that change urban, criminal and disciplinary law can come with a simple amendment. That is why, although in a positive direction, we are not sure of these changes and we will vote 'at present' on this amendment. As far as Amendments 2009/48 and 2022/49 are concerned, which deal with regulation of the Ministry of Labour and the reduction of the tax rate of dividends, we are positive, so we will vote in favour of them. And now we are going to go to Amendment No 2023 and special number 50. Minister, a few hours ago, the Ministry of Health's bill ended. Did you accept to bring an amendment on health issues after a few hours? So the Department of Health has now compiled it, now that's what this is? Didn't they know about it yesterday when Parliament started? All the time I was here and closed it at 1st night and this afternoon at 17: 00, when the draft law was completed, did we not know about this amendment and the changes to all these health bodies? I, in fact, would not accept it when the bill was completed on the same day. I consider this unacceptable, and it is one of the main reasons why we will vote against this amendment. Last amendment - and fifth of the number - which I am commenting on is the one with a general number of 2025 and a special number 51, to which we really are considering the legal possibility of applying for a building permit for a majority of 66%, and we do not know whether there will be any appeals for this reason in general with the provisions of urban legislation. That is why we shall vote 'at present'. Generally speaking, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we do not hide that we have expected much more than this draft law. In fact, Greek sport either professional or amateur employs almost a majority of our youth population. We should have seen the problems he faces. You have to understand that they are not being solved today and we need to see them more effectively. I will say again that you have had four whole years - not personally, because you have to take on this in the middle of your term - to see it properly, seriously structured, with discussions, with committees, with bodies, with bodies, with regular procedures, with dialogue, to look at it across the board. Sport is, in fact, a part of our children's education and we should be dealing with it not fragmentally but with substantial solutions, which will have a substantial effect at the end of the day. For these reasons, the position of the Central Association will be 'present' in principle and on the whole, and there are provisions, as I have said, Mr Minister, that we will vote positively on the basis of some articles. Thank you very much and thank you for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u485	Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u486	The government comes as a thief and introduces an amendment of credentials, literally, for the people, which reduces the taxation of distributed profits from 15% to 10%. What's wrong with you? You guys become the rest of us and you don't have a voice, New Democracy, KINAL, everybody in here? Why doesn't anyone even speak in procedural terms? And you, Minister, how did you accept it in the sports bill, come an amendment that could come tomorrow when the'red' loans or the day after tomorrow are discussed? Why is that? Such government spoonfuls? What's going on? Are we licking our finger? Why does he bring her today, and he doesn't bring her one day later? To get to the unclaimed, people don't take it, that's why he does it. Because sports bill, regardless of what it is, etc., is very interesting. And he goes to the unclaimed, because he has the full agreement of all the wings, except the JRC. But laugh. Our voice is much stronger than you imagine and what polls and percentages show, especially within the mass movement. And we're gonna make this a flag, and that's along with all the rest. So what's he doing? Again, I say it reduces 50% taxation on the distributed profits of whom? Professionals? No, of course not. These are not shareholders in the anonymous companies or in the mathematics. You see, it's a wise measure! Poverty cursed the shipowners, the industrialists, the mercenaries! I'm sorry. People don't have to live! Even in the crisis they increased their profits. And you're coming now and what do you say? They are poor and want incentives, so it has reduced by 50% taxation, while the people with 400 euros, 500 euros and 700 euros are rich and are therefore taxed from the first euro to 22%. And the worst thing - not to say heavy words, because nobody can be held back - is that you even tax your unemployment benefit. Big humiliation of the working world! And you reduce taxation on distributed profits and then say that you support the many. What many? It's hard, barbaric, class policy to relieve the oligarchy of wealth. And not only that, but to reduce taxation from 29% to 23%, when the wealth it holds more than 1/3 of GDP is involved with a 6% share of tax burden. This is - and not only the government but also the other urban parties prove who they are and what they support - the barbarity of the system. I say again that it taxes 22% unemployment benefit and at the same time reduces taxation from 29% gradually to 23%. It decreases from 15% to 10% the tax on distributed profits. It gives many millions as - within introductory - 'development' incentives. That's who you are. There are fifty-seven tax exemptions in logistics. There is a proposal to revise Article 107 of the JRC Constitution. All of you, no-one, no-one. A-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a. The farmer, of course, pays taxed oil - does not produce the farmer! - while the shipowner, the industry is being relieved. Paying a transfer tax the worker to give a home - which he made with blood and sweat - to his child, but the shipowner does not pay. And there are too many other things and silence in the Chamber. And in such things it seems who's with who. You're with capitalism, with capitalism, against workers living terriblely. And we're with those who produce wealth, and we invite them to take him into their hands, because they deserve them, and they're stolen by the others. As far as the bill is concerned, it is a bill which cannot be said to be confronted with the general problems of sport and, above all, where it should be in school, neighbourhood and mass popular sport. It does not address the needs of children and young people of the people's family, because others do not have such a problem or orientation. Thousands of amateur unions are planting, literally, and you know them. I think it's four thousand. Our rapporteur has said it in detail. I'll do a generalization. They're left to mercy. Who? They are the people who fight, the parents who put them out of their pocket, some people who have a hand and stand up against the children of the people's families and youth and are out of the government's perspective. Is that a lie? Has New Democracy done anything in this area? Did KINAL do anything besides some measures taken by PASOK in 1981, which was another era and were mature and could it not be done differently? Nothing, indifference! Why is your god? The PPPs, the anonymous companies in the field of sport. There all the governments, all of you are galados. You have given - I have lost the account - I do not know how many millions of debts created by the great, the poor, the businessmen, the shipowners, the owners of wealth. Really how much did you give them? Make us an account. For amateur unions, however, you have nothing, you don't have any euros. Only by the "side" at one time or by the value of certain municipalities. So this government that says about the new and the left's governance - the concept of this policy has been unleashed - what did it say? He said - writes SYRIZA - "it turns out that amateurs cannot coexist with professional sport". Is that what you're saying today as a government? Or exactly the opposite? The same line is followed, which reinforces commercialisation and business activity beyond individual measures, despite the fact that some interventions that appear to be good or may be some modernisation. Eventually, however, this strategy also serves, as is the case in all areas, as is the case with the health we have been discussing this morning. Because here you've been training us, morning, noon and night, before and after dinner. Three bills will you bring in now or four in a day? Is this new? Where does the capitalist system come from? It comes from the White Paper on sport in the European Union, which drinks water in its name, and which praises what is happening in Europe and the Minister, regardless of what he can believe within him at least. What was that White Bible? Let us say that under the title White Paper was hidden black, tar literally for workers and people. If you remember, those who remember and read, the White Paper on the work done by the Union of Industrialists' Union, it is the one that laid the foundations for this whole scanning of labour conquests. Then the others were in favor of an abundance, a New Democracy and a PASOK, and the coalition was saying it is neither white nor black. Here's the results we're living in today. What did this White Paper also do from the European Union? He did the self-evident thing. The European Union's White Paper, which does not change and, as far as it gets worse, it responds to the fact that sport - let this be about social good, as the European Union has said about education, which is closely following the line and which you are going out and outwards at one time and you are advertising it - is, he says, a commercial product, and indeed a commercial product that covers 4% of the European Union's GDP. Therefore, it is an area of capital gain and not just profitableness. There are other aspects that I have no time to analyse. Who's working there? The tycoons of wealth unbelievably economical, unequivocally for the simple worker who has worked a lifetime to get a piece of money and secure the basics. What was the direction? The direction was to put rules in place so that the ball of competition between big businessmen is not lost, but at the same time, at the same time, to introduce such rules to facilitate capitalist profitability. They're familiar. And when we talk about profitability, we're talking about an endless world and Greek party that starts with sports, from tickets, from ads, from sponsors, from pharmaceutical companies. It is indisputable that the monopolies are in the pockets, while the people are unhappy. The current government, like the previous ones, serves these interests. So multi-advertising control and transparency are a sex of figurative nature. Healthy competition? Okay, are you serious? Competition is rabies. There is no mercy and limits on competition between business groups. It is, as you say, 'healthy entrepreneurship'. Entrepreneurship has laws, has the god of profit. And you're talking about violence? The god of profit is interwoven with violence not only in football but globally. Why are wars going on? To ensure the interests of large monopolistic groups. Is this where peoples are destroying and leveling up to take the energy sources, and will these interests hesitate to use armies, fascist groups, criminal groups for too many reasons, for both economic and financial reasons? And you're saying you're gonna hit violence when you don't hit the causes of violence? Thousands of laws to do - after all, they get away, they have all the tricks and we know them very well - they don't get the law in them. Laws come in when you abolish them and then you build another system that the people will have power. Apart from the general things we want to say, we are making specific proposals, and I would ask you to give me two minutes. The JRC says these are inherent in the system, that when they get goods, when they get profit, we have all these phenomena. But for now we are tabling a number of proposals which can improve without solving the overall problems. Of course, we do not propose that you abolish business activity. This is the god of all governments. It is not possible, it is good news, so let us leave that. The New Democracy, of course, has stayed in the canvass. Firstly, why don't the ODP and the OEM go to the Ministry of Development? The Minister replied that back there are historical unions hiding. So what? What's going on here? To bankrupt unions and businessmen to be diluent and no one pays anything. Why? And pay for it, who? The Greek people. Why not go to the Ministry of Development, normally check as anonymous companies like everyone else, and secondly, take on real sport beyond supervision, racing, etc., in the OLAF - we have no objection - that is, school, neighborhood, infrastructure, staffing, support for amateur associations, financing technical infrastructure? Why give so much to them and not give them to amateur unions and people? Example where I will put it here as well: The Panhellenic Gymnastic Association of the most historic unions in the center of Athens. It is, in fact, a historic union, which is assembling and going to children of the people's families by 99%, so as not to exclude anyone. It covers the center, the surrounding districts that are both migrants and refugees apart. He's got huge problems. He had four thousand children of athletes before the crisis and now has two and a half thousand, result of both the crisis and the financial difficulties that exist. So what do we say? How does Panhellenic stand? From the actual heroic efforts of coaches, parents, who run from morning to night and other people who have a little bit of sport. So what do we propose? Firstly, this legal regime must end. It's not possible. The Minister knows and we've talked about it. And with Mr. Kontonis we've talked about them, they've lifted hands, and now nothing has happened, to end this story with this legal status. Secondly, there must be courageous support and funding from the region to renew the facilities. There are programs ready, which can and must be given. Thirdly, there must be a working pact, because we understand that the General Secretariat of Sports, the Ministry of Sports, cannot finance, with the region and with the municipality, in order to make use of the facilities when they are not athletes, particularly in the mornings, from schools, from the CFP, from universities, etc. and, of course, with this funding, to reduce to a minimum assistance so that children of the people's families can go there. Is this finally going to be solved? What does he want, a socialist revolution to solve it? Or does he want a policy that moves in such a philosophical direction? The second measure - not Panhellenic, and we can talk more - is the abolition of the participation of the Greek groups in the "TIFHMA" and of all kinds of bets. So what are you looking for? For me? For "patients"? Corruption? Huge financial interests, unbelievable. Third, brave state sponsorship of sports federations, thousands of need-based unions, and you know how many they are. Fourthly, the granting by the State of conditions for the physical education of young people, facilities, infrastructure, scientific support, in cooperation with both municipalities and with the region. Do you know what the situation is? Do you live in society? I imagine you're alive. Can I tell you a simple people's family with two kids what she's pulling when she wants her child to be at work and when she has a tendency that's positive to that? But, regardless of that, he has to pay him shoes, uniforms, see who's going to take him there, pay a subscription, go support it and pay tickets to the matches - stress from the morning - out of the laceration, bleeding laceration literally. And yet, the world is standing up against everything that is being promoted in sport. There's a lot of love between the athletes and the kids. A feeling of solidarity, not of strong, cynical capitalist competition, is being cultivated. Are you going to support these? Finally, development of infrastructure for schools, etc. We are making these proposals here as well. We have also tabled an amendment for coaches. You didn't tell us whether or not you accepted it. You didn't get a seat. I don't know, and so I can't say. You can say 'we accept it'. So who's in charge? The state, universities or the NSA and UEFA, that is, professionals? Why don't you do that? Isn't that a fair request? Tell us where you're disagreeing. At least give us some arguments to say we're wrong. Do that, too. They're the ones who testify to the movement. And you know what? We've also given written samples. Where there are communist mayors, assistance to sports clubs, etc. is minimal, almost zero. In Petroupoli, you're doing everything you want, and that's why other quarters go. And in others, in Cesarean and elsewhere, where we have potential within these suffocating frameworks, we have action of the communist youth of Greece. As he says 'no' to all drugs and conflicts everywhere, so to sport, in the context of our potential. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] That is why we are calling on the people to get together with the JRC to fight now and build society. All this was undone in socialism and sport and elsewhere. Any child finishing school, public and free, knew two languages, systematically engaged in a sport, a sport and a musical instrument. What capitalists, neo-capitalists, what these countries have done with socialism, because it has another perception of life, and this has proved historically to be the case. And today you still ask who did this stage, who did that. What did you make? Gothland. New cities, filled bars and anything else, filled McDonald's, because wild capitalism dominates. This world we want to bring along and bring it along with the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u487	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ilioopoulos, has the floor. There have been three fellow speakers, Mrs Megalo-Economist, Mrs Stuboulis and Mr Vorides, and Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mrs Javarra. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u488	Thank you, Mr President. Fortunately, the world will not return to either communism or socialism, as they have now rather changed the name and are called, and it will also leave the capitalism that is today and indeed eaten everything, as the neoliberals of the New Democracy want to bring us. The world is massively turning towards patriotism, nationalism - this word that hurts you so much - it turns to the values of every country, away from socialism, far from all that is swallowing the societies, the Western societies that have implemented them. We say 'yes' to mass sport, we say 'yes' not to pay - of course - for the young people who want to be involved in any sport. These are self-evident things that need to provide a social state to young people, to avoid drugs, to make better people, to become better citizens in society, when they finish school and have taken these principles through the stadiums and through the schools. We support mass sport and sport should be an experience of every young person from a very young age. But you Syrians probably live in another country than I understand. Your executives come out and say they don't see any wood, they don't see any inductions, they don't see any opened heads, they don't see any chemicals, they don't see all of this. They don't see people protesting against their politics. All of this is happening in another country for the symbiotes, but reality will correct you very unscrupulously and very abnormally when you land in reality and you will see that the world is against your policy both in social and national and on all the issues that you legislate. You said that you would abolish MATs and, of course, MATs are the necessary tool to carry out this polite policy I mentioned before. They don't welcome you with flowers. Do not deceive yourself. And that's why Janakopoulos goes out with a lot of nerve and says, "I'm honored that we sold Macedonia, so cheek." Ahchioglu landed because she was in Thessaloniki and says: I'm in the center of Macedonia and I don't see a protest. The Ahchioglu, which, before SYRIZA went to power, had gone to Skopje and said: of course, you must be called Macedonia. She landed too, because she came out with a 20-year-old girl, and she had not gone to war with the twenty-year-old girl, as you say, all those who disapprove of you are bad fascists. There's a little girl and what did she say? That Macedonia will avenge you, that you are traitors, and Macedonia will avenge you. And he said it with very nice words and you can get on the internet and see it. You said, of course, that from now on - your SYRIZA ministers - there will be preventive provocations - we have heard that too - from the SYRIZA regime. Of course, preventive provocations so far only apply to Greek patriots who protest against you. Because to your kind children, who leave nothing standing in their path, we have seen no preventive induction when the whole of Athens burns. We have not seen any preventive induction when the third political party is legally concentrating and the region is almost excluded from the judiciary and from the uniforms. Now parastates have become too, since they serve your own commands. We have not seen them all protest, your ministers, and they say that preventive appeals must be made to bring the third political party together. Of course not. We had the election in the region the day before yesterday with Elias Panayotaros and our Chief Nikos Michaloliakos at the Paleo Faliro and were excluded from the streets and from the para-states and so the world could not reach our event. That's how you understand democracy, of course. You're never going to go to the Exarch preventative inductions, don't be fooled. You'll be watching a new system. We were watching them - he says - go out and say 'em slowly. Republic, as was seen by Orwell in '1984'. That's exactly what SYRIZA's plan is. Monitoring - says - of citizens on the Internet and where we think you're going to go protest, we'll come and take you. So if your intention is to provoke anyone who protests against SYRIZA's policies, you should know that you should arrest and take more than half Greece, because all Greeks are against you. The Turkish Member of Parliament came to the Greek Parliament - not to the Greek Parliament, not to their own, they say a number of crazy things - and he said no more and no more to the Aegean, that there should be no unilateral, one-sided ones, as he said in his language, moves. Of course, instead of answering that the Aegean was and will be re-established at some point with the help of God Greek seas, you replied to him that there must be mutual compromises. The other one comes here provocatively - in the Greek Parliament, I repeat, for those who have not understood what is being done here under the SYRIZA Government - and you tell them that there must be an honest compromise. We, of course, as Golden Dawn when we come to things, because at some point, God wants it and we will come to things, you will see what an honest compromise we make with the Turks and you will understand how foreign policy is made. Because your Minister said, and we hope - because we do not know what he means - that he does not mean anything bad because he says he is preparing, that it is a very likely hot episode with the Turks. And because we have seen the Greek Government's reactions in the corresponding incidents, we hope it was a verbal excess, because we do not want to know what will happen if there is a strong episode with the SYRIZA government, until the Turks arrive. We hope he said so. Quick and easy solution for Tsipra. Yesterday in Parliament he told us the solution proposed by SYRIZA for the solution to the demographic problem. And who's that? Replacement of the Greek population - we knew this was the plan, we see it implemented - by foreigners, by those who bring from every corner of the world, from Africa, from Asia. You bring them here, you subsidise them not to work, none of them work, criminalize, kill and steal and live from benefits. Light, water, telephone, houses, everything you provide. What each Greek citizen would like to see, of course, is free of charge for all illegal immigrants who invade our homeland and serve the plan of Tsipras, which is the replacement of the Greek population. They leave the Greeks abroad and come over every walnut, to replace the Greeks. He said sixty-five thousand have been Hellenised. He said there would be procedures and people hired to speed up the procedures, to get two hundred thousand more. Such a burn has, before leaving power, direct Greekizations! He's already given it to us here from the Step of the House. He said something else, which should be remembered and well he did and reminded us. It says: 'Let me remind you again' - and I read just his words - 'that in the 1990s, despite the unpleasant forecasts of demographics, the country increased its population by about eight hundred thousand citizens, but this emerged' - and the Prime Minister is absolutely right - 'by 97% of immigrants and just 3% of births over the deaths at that time'. And that's exactly the way things are, 97% population growth from illegal immigrants. This Greece you dream that there will be no Greeks to resist your plans. This Greece dreams of George Soros and his "Open State", as he wants to enforce it throughout the world and that is why the New Democracy has rushed to say that "we want Orban to leave immediately, his policies do not like us". And how can New Democracy policies in Orban like it when Mr. Mitsotakis comes here and tells us 2,000 euros for every birth, while the evidence says that foreign births outweigh those Greeks? The same evidence is said here. They're 97% strangers. He said about 2,000 euros and didn't mention anywhere the phrase “for every Greek”. This is the New Democracy. It does not matter for the New Democracy to save insurance, to save pensions, as you dream about them, to save all those who take advantage of these hundreds of thousands of people. Only for profit, we don't care about Greeks, we don't put Greeks above all, when we're liberal, we only care about profit. We, however, as Greek nationalists, say that births will only be subsidised for Greeks, whether you like them or not. The ERT characterizes the cross as a splitter. We've heard that too. Some people went and set up the cross in Lesvos and were characterized as fascists, extreme rightists. The ERT characterized the sacred symbol as a divisive. Fighting for who? 98% of the Greek population are Greek Christian Orthodox. Who is divided with the cross? The only ones who don't like to see this sacred symbol are the ones that you have brought in. Matti, 24 July 2018. It says the Prosecutor's finding: Image of chaos, absolute irresponsibility and collapse of each system, says after a seven-month investigation that the state mechanism was presenting that day. And I will supplement, of course, as every day, the state mechanism has paralysed. She remembered that she was a woman and she said that we shouldn't attack her because she's a woman and that's why she found something to say. She who supports and gives money to "gay pride" and to any kind of abnormal event she has never given a single euro for fire protection, has managed to drown people in the mountains and burn people into the sea. It's a global originality, what you've achieved! We'll call it back, see if you'll inspire it and ask for an apology, bro. Okay, you say, we were wrong, we were incompetent, we're useless, an apology for these hundred souls in Matti and the twenty-four souls in Mandra won't hurt, it's good to make you a little self-critic about what you haven't done all these years! Instead, cheeky punk at all the facets of your political speech. Of course, Mandra, Matty, Macedonia will be paid. They'll pay you back. These are bills that the Greek people will pay for where you are most in pain in the gallery. But what do you do when so many people are burned and drowned? I come to the JRC too, to close with something 'thank you'. In introductory terms, of course, pleasant. The JRC is never pleasant. To show the infamousness that a part of the Greek people has. Because the gays have always been worse than the genuine other religioners. So, listen, what exactly does the JRC write in a question. Specifically, he says: "Some of the slogans about the army...", the slogans that Greek soldiers call, "...the soldiers are forced to shout "Cyprus is Greek and Macedonia...". That's a great motto. "Pontos is Greek and Asia Minor". Listen to what terrible things are shouting at the Greek army! ‘Where are we going to light candles? In Agia Sophia". The keys are inconvenienced by them, as are you the Syrians, as you are all annoyed. Listen to what the JRC's question says: "With every opportunity, some executives are trying to cultivate aluterism, reproducing the unscrupulous slogan...". What's the slogan for the JRC? "Macedonia is one and it is Greek." And Apostolakis, the child who's been through all the parties. It's typical of his picture to have fun at a club. He's being demoralized, you bring him back, you make him Chief again. Now, you make him a minister. And your Minister answers: "According to the evidence, which has been put in my mind, the proclamation of such slogans is not confirmed. Finally, it is noted that, in the event of violations, "Macedonia is Greek", "...the provisions of the existing UN institutional texts will apply". And since we like what hurts you, I will close with one of the slogans that yell in the Greek army: "Cyprus is Greek and Macedonia".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u489	Thank you, Mr. Heliopoulou. Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u490	Thank you, Mr President. Let's start with where sports was born. He was born in Greece. She's being praised. He's grown up. In fact, he was so strong that during the war period he had the opportunity to stop the war between cities - states and to fight, to make the Olympic Games. So, in Greece since ancient times, we have constantly discriminated against athletes. Sport is an integral part of our culture and society. However, the economic development of professional sport, both in our country and internationally, has unfortunately been linked to a body of scandals of corruption and duplication, as well as to an increase in fanatical violence and fanaticism, which lead to a series of various forms of crime with which we have also caused adverse consequences. Although some steps have been taken so far on the part of the state to deal with these phenomena, and at European level some corresponding actions have been taken, these problems remain a brake on healthy development, both amateur and professional sport. I would like to mention that this draft law forms the institutional framework that will form the basis for establishing legality, transparency, good administration, but also for preventing and eliminating chronic problems in the field of sport. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Professional Sport is institutionalised in the form of a legal person governed by public law, which will be a supervisory mechanism with wide powers of management and financial control and of sanctions, but with the substantial difference between the existing committee consisting of the absence from the composition of the board of directors of the new public administration, so that there are no suspicions of government intervention in its work. The independence and impartiality of that body shall be strengthened by the arrangements for limiting the term of office for all members of the Board of Directors to two successive or non-replying terms, as well as their cessation only if there is a great reason, while transparency shall be ensured by the establishment for the first time of the obligation to publish the decisions of the Board of Directors on its website. Furthermore, this draft law promotes a serious issue, equality between the sexes, as it establishes the quota a third in the representation of each one in the administrations of sports organisations and is important. The elements of women's participation in decision-making in the field of professional sport in Greece are degrading when equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of our legal order. Don't take it like in the antiquity that a woman had been forced to dress a man to participate in the Olympic Games. They didn't get it. It is a matter of legal order, but also internationally. This regulation comes to restore the numerical imbalance between sexes on board boards and committees, as well as management and training, encouraging women to participate actively and not to be discouraged by existing stereotypes. It is also important for Article 34. It is very important as with the arrangements it provides for the democratisation of representation in the plenary session of the administration of the Hellenic Paralympic Committee, which is the supreme body of the Paralympic movement and the representation of our country in the International Paralympic Committee by choosing, setting up and sending national teams to the Paralympic Games. At this point I would like to stress the professional sports clubs, Mr. Minister, who have sports divisions for children. They should set up sections for disabled people in order to contribute. I thought they had the money. They could, as children's or adolescents do, also have a place for disabled people, because they will contribute to their full acceptance and socialisation, so that they have equal opportunities in society and in the field of sport. Finally, Articles 37 and 38 refer to the imposition of restrictive conditions for those who commit offences in the course of sporting events, the introduction of increased criminal liability for parents, committees or guardians of minors, criminal liability for security officials due to their negligence, and Article 20 on the objective responsibility of sports organisations for public statements containing regulations that contribute substantially to the treatment of violence, fanaticism, fanaticism, racism, phenomena that undermine our society. I would like to end by saying that the space of sport is in direct need of resolution and this bill with its above regulations, but also with all the others, is actually and effectively moving in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u491	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Mrs Stuboulis, from the SYRIZA parliamentary group, has the floor last of the speakers. My colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u492	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on the neonazi pot - which we had to monitor. Science raises hands up. I cannot, however, resist the temptation to respond to the rhetoric of amendments that come to the wrong day in the wrong bill and benefit Parliament, which we have heard many times since this meeting began. Do you know the joke with the sergeant who requires the probie to push the wall? He's trying to explain that it's not possible, that the wall is not pushed, the sergeant swears and threatens. The young man's trying to push the wall, and then what does the sergeant say? ‘Watch the wrong track, is the wall pushed?’. Yesterday we heard the anti-government assembled yesterday because this amendment on the EPPY arrived when the first rapporteur was finishing or when the second one was starting. And the opposition demanded - and indeed very vividly - respect for the decision of the Conference of Presidents, 'not amendments after the start of plenary' and urged our ministers to 'after we have a bill tomorrow, why don't you bring it to us tomorrow in peace'. Tomorrow, then, that is to say, before the vote began, we heard an orchestration not by the sergeant, unfortunately, but by parliamentary men and women, 'why didn't you bring it yesterday, which was the relevant health legislation?' Who, in fact, is benefiting Parliament, underestimating both the memory and the intelligence of the others? Now, with regard to the bill, this bill regulates important issues it consolidates transparency and democracy in the field of sport and strengthens the rights of athletes. Sport is an important activity that entertains adults and socializes children, strengthening the health and well-being of all. Unfortunately, however, it can also be another outbreak of corruption. Whether we are talking about the huge economic interests of professional sport that turn it into a merchandise, or about the micro-corruption and local complexity of the players of amateur sports clubs, these phenomena hurt the sporting spirit and the moods of the majority of the athletes. Ensuring this bill is to strengthen the real self-government of sports actors in general, but at the same time to tighten their control framework to make this more effective and effective. There are also some provisions aimed at dealing with violence in the field by taking measures to control the application of the sanctions imposed by giving those responsible for this task the responsibility and not do so. Three more important points are included in this bill. All electoral procedures of sports organisations, associations and federations will be carried out with the system of mere proportional representation, as is done in most associations of any kind, to ensure effective representation. The separate ballot is a democratic right and the limitation of the terms of office of the elected representatives ensures effective participation. Equivalent participation of women and men in sports clubs is also strengthened by the establishment of a gender quota in the management of sport, as are the guidelines of the European Union and provided for in the National Gender Equality Action Plan 2016-2020. Women, while being a significant proportion of athletes and, of course, parents, are seriously under-represented at management level, as they occupy one-digit percentages of administrative positions in sports organisations, clubs and federations. It is of interest, of course, at this point to see whether the measure will also have some effect on men in some sports that are considered women's, because, in general, sport is nothing but questioning stereotypes in relation to sex. And here I am obliged to recall the studies of the EIG - the European Institute for Gender Equality - which relate to gender equality in sport, as well as culture and trade unionism, equality in free time and equality in free time with the distribution by sex of unpaid domestic work and care, in which, as the EIG can see, all other than equality prevails in our country. Greece has the last score from the twenty-eight European countries. Article 35 now gives the right to participate in all races of amateur sport, of local, regional or global level and in all sports, individual or group, and citizens of a third country or stateless persons residing in the country as beneficiaries or applicants for international protection. This regulation contributes to the recognition of these people as equal to the rest of the citizens living in that country and promotes their normal social integration. The examples of refugees found by camps on sports stadiums are now enough. These social groups, instead of being unscrupulous, are beginning to be recognised as our existent fellow men, present nowadays in the field of sport. In conclusion, I would also like to welcome the strengthening of the functioning of the Paralympic Committee, as shown in Article 60, and to remind you that Paralympic sport is very high in our country, with remarkable successes in every organisation and therefore deserves all kinds of support for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u493	Thank you, Mrs. Stuboulis. Mr. Voridis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u494	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that something has been going on lately with SYRIZA, with the government in any event, in an almost undisclosed way. I was listening to Mr. Paphie's criticism. I do not know whether I am going to join the whole of it, but I want you to explain to me what you are doing with this story about the 'Philippi Union'. And to say why it matters to me. There's been a choice. The choice was that a company was commissioned to organize horse races. That's a conversation, if it's good or bad. However, I am going to tell you directly that a second option has been made, which seems to me extremely paradoxical - I do not say it is your government, it is our governments, it is our governments, too - and that we have a way of organising betting and playing gambling, where, while there was a state monopoly that has a logic to limit toxicity, now there is a second model, that is to say, to open up competition by putting a strong regulator, which also has a logic. We have chosen a model that I cannot monitor. We have a private monopoly, and then we put on a regulator. Watch out. In this context, a particular company, which is basically responsible for the organization of horse races, appeared in order to have Greek races and a corresponding bet. It's a choice that's been made. There was a competition, there was a company, and he took that responsibility. Apparently, there's got to be a regulator for that. From the outset this rules of conduct were laid down to have it a legal person governed by public law, called the 'Philipp Union', with specific rules which had been reflected in a number of forced laws and presidential decrees. I hope that we agree that regulator and adjuster have conflicting interests. In fact, the regulator must be neutral and be regulated, representing its own private interests. Is there any objection to this model and this plan? I'm trying to figure out if there's any. Because if it does not exist, you must now explain how you are intervening in the 'Philippine Union' so that on major issues, as you are shaping its operation, it can no longer take a decision without the assistance of the regulated, concessionaire, on a number of central issues. That's unprecedented. The argument that can be heard, namely, that 'you know, we have no races', to interpret it in essence, in what is an uncovered blackmail, you have been advocating? Because things should be done upside down. It should be regulated and the adjuster complied. And here we conclude that the solution to the question is to hand over the "Philipp Union" and finally to conduct the races to the person who is regulated and to control the regulator, i.e. the "Philipp Union", by the company, by the concessionaire. Don't you hear me? Don't listen to me. But here, there are legal issues that will arise. I do not have to make the government's legal advisor, as you can see, but there are some things that are quite obvious. The Scientific Council tells you in this regard. What's he saying? There is concern about the protection of the public interest and respect for the principle of neutrality, as regards the functioning of legal persons governed by public law, according to which those legal persons governed by public law must operate in such a way as to serve the public interest only. That this has to do with the necessary presence and vote of at least one member of the Board of Directors, which is indicated by the concessionaire for a number of important issues that you identify with your bill. Yesterday we followed here with an amendment the spectacularly favourable treatment of the pharmaceutical industry. We have followed her with scandalous provisions, which will cost the costs of the medicines and the interests of the insured. Today, we are seeing favourable provisions for the concessionaire, to the extent that the self-sufficiency and the possibility of a decision by a legal person governed by public law, who is responsible for organising the specific infrastructure and the operation of the horse races, are being dismantled. I just want to ask you something - and I'm stopping here - because these look unthinkable to me. They will fall legally because they violate seventy provisions, union autonomy, the way in which these bodies can organise themselves internally. It is clear that the regulation is, in fact, delivered on one side in terms of conflict of interest. I just want to ask you, apart from being pressurised, is there any other reasonable explanation to that? Because I can't find anyone. What I understand is that they tell you that "we will stop working if you do not do this to us and that", you do what they ask for in order to function. But that, you will allow me to tell you, completely undermines a specific environment of objectivity, of sound regulation, of weighting of interests that should exist, especially for this function. It will create too many problems, it will create a legal involvement and it is certainly a bad solution. Mr President, you saw today, I was completely accurate in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u495	I am surprised that all three of the last speakers were precise in time. Well, I will only give Mrs Karamanlis the floor, because she has spoken less than all the rapporteurs, because she wants to have three articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u496	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u497	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u498	Mr. Javaras hasn't spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u499	You didn't tell me anything, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u500	You said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u501	But you didn't ask me for the floor. You didn't come to ask me for the floor, and I thought you didn't want to talk. Of course, come talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u502	You said before...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u503	Come and talk. Don't make a big deal of it. You didn't ask me for the floor. I'll put you, Mr. Javarra, ten minutes from there, and we'll find them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u504	You're not gonna put ten minutes on me, Mr. President. If you do a little trouble and take a look at the paperwork you have in front of you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u505	Mr. Javarra, don't make a point. Start...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u506	Listen to me, please. Don't interrupt me. I speak as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, and I am not prepared to make any concessions to you, nor to you, as I did not make it to the previous President-in-Office, who may of course ask me to give her pain, but I did not give her, because I respect myself and the House. So listen, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u507	I didn't ask for any concessions. Don't waste time. Let's go. You know there's tolerance with me. Don't worry. Start your word and we'll find it along the way. If ever possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u508	It's not a transaction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u509	No misunderstandings, nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u510	It's not about what you and I will find, Mr President. It is a matter of how faithfully we shall apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u511	Please don't talk underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u512	Below we have a gala, which thinks that it offers services to democracy. So he's learned and that's what he's serving. Anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u513	Mr. Javarra, we're not gonna ruin this for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u514	We're not going to ruin it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u515	Start and time is enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u516	You know, Mr President, the seat on which you are sitting cannot - and I honestly do not believe that this is not the case for you - become a means of replacing all kinds of deprivation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u517	Do you see me depriving you of anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u518	Because cultural poverty is not just a cause of political indifference. It's - Mr. Minister, I'm addressing you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u519	Mr Javarra, I haven't started the time and you still say what you want. Let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u520	Obviously, I'm saying what I want. You guys don't know what you understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u521	I understand everything, Mr. Javarra. I understand that you cannot reach agreement within the party because I have read the Minutes. Any misunderstandings there are...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u522	Very nice. At this late hour of the night you think I'm willing...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u523	I didn't want us to get to that point. Still, you want to pull it. Begin, please, with your word and we'll find it in time, don't worry. Let us not create any issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u524	Be more noble to me, and I demand you be noble.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u525	I'm very noble and don't beat my hand. I'm not afraid of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u526	"Start" to the people who are your employees. I exercise a right where I am.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u527	We all exercise a right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u528	I would ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and the values of parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u529	I respect the Rules of Procedure, and that is why you are at the Step of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u530	So let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u531	If I didn't respect the Rules of Procedure, you wouldn't be there, so start and leave the impressions and don't beat my hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u532	And I'm gonna hit it, and until you let me talk, that way I'm gonna talk to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u533	Do this elsewhere, not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u534	...because ignorance at last does not create an obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u535	Come on, Mr. Javarra. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u536	Obligation causes and creates only the kindness, which you are obliged to display...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u537	I'm speaking with absolute courtesy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u538	...but it seems that the one who handed you over to the baton - I repeat - for only she knows and I don't share it, was trying to convey you the understanding that when Mr. Javarras confines him, he will collect obedience as a substitute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u539	Mr. Javarra, there is no restriction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u540	Well, I'm nobody's national, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u541	Come on! Let's go. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u542	I am a New Democracy parliamentary representative. You have to understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u543	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u544	So listen. I repeat to hear this ward too. Cultural poverty certainly fuels political indifference, and many times this cultural poverty becomes the best cause for realizing how deprived a man can be. Minister, I would like, above all, because we are talking about sport, to remind you - a fellow Member who went through this step - said that Greece has a unique originality to be the country that gave birth to sport, but not by zero, but has given birth as a child of culture. This seems, if you will know - I believe - first of all at this heroic moment in "Iliad" where after the burial of Patrocles, Achilles organizes the wreaths on Patroclos. Now you'll tell me what language I'm talking to, but I'll insist. And not only that, but also a second moment that created sport was that moment in Olympia, where, as the poet says, from the Christian womb of Olympia, which did not change and was not mutilated and would never die, they erected the great sporting ideals that today constitute the content of Olympism. The first question I have to ask you is: Do you really disagree with the fact that the guardian of these values of Olympism is for our place, for our national boundaries, the Hellenic Olympic Committee? Do you have any objection to the fact that this committee is automatically the head of all amateur sport? I ask: why do you not take into account the fifty proposals that have been made to you, which are not from the New Democracy, or from any other party, but are from those that are the natural, institutional, ex-ficio depositaries of the values of the genuine sports movement? And not only this, you have previously laughed at the expression that gives you by describing what part the bill you bring and this expression is 'gratulus'. So this throat, against all the seven thousand clubs of sport, how do you pass it and not at least sit down to say: 'Do these people not have a right'? Of course, that is not your purpose, and that is what I have to tell you beforehand. You have in the explanatory memorandum a prologue which, I am no longer hiding you, is the permanent culmination of all the bills brought by the government over the four years. You are those who have promised the Greek people that you will eliminate corruption, eliminate the complexity, that you are in favour of transparency and that you are in favour of independence and impartiality throughout the public and private sectors where more general interests are served or served. I ask you: can you tell me a provision, one of those which can indeed be called modernistic or rationalistic by Law 2725/1999? And if you don't get tired, I have a few in mind and I'll give them to you: So you say that with this bill you want to assign the phenomenon of professional sport to an independent administrative authority. Truly, how independent can an administrative authority which makes it as the Minister wishes in this bill, where all the members of the Board of Directors are appointed by the Minister and indeed by the Minister who, during their four-year term of office, has the right to cease two of them for a great reason? This is indeed a regulation which creates an independent administrative authority as we know it, namely an administrative authority that goes beyond the limits of the powers of the government and of the administration. It is not an independent administrative authority which is an institution of the Government, nor an administrative body. So you are actually coming to this point in order to convince us that this public legal person will be the guarantor of purification, of the resolution of professional sport. Apparently, he won't have any luck. It will simply be an instrument in the hands of the government to fulfil its objectives of manipulating the specific phenomenon called 'professional sport'. It has been said by many speakers - and I know it because the previous President praised me and left me to listen, with great pleasure, I can say to all my fellow Members who have gone before - that now everyone knows who is healthy and who is sport serving government interests. Healthy sport, therefore, could arise if you were to take effective measures to stand up to violence in the courts, to hit the preconscious outcome of the sports games, and indeed the preconsuming agreement that has to do with illegal betting or even legal betting, because here in the markets and in society a lot is said and a lot is shattered. Of course you would not have reached the point where you would have granted the right to buy a football team in a betting company at least up to 15%. But beyond that, there are still some questions. You are creating a statute and I am very sorry that you and you are a legal person have not bothered to deal with what is right in the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. There it is a noble thing to say, because in the last three, four years the people who make up the Scientific Committee are only kindly addressed and kindly criticise - and they are doing well - but at least a sensitive Minister is obliged to understand and what the issue is. So when he tells you that with the provisions of Articles 46 to 53 - which you are supposed to modernise the Philippian Union of Greece - a regime is being created, the only situation that can arise for the functioning of the administration in decision-making on the very important issues is that a decision cannot be formed unless at least one of those appointed by the Board of Directors, the one who has the concession of the horse races is involved. And here we ask: by this arrangement, what do you say you serve transparency, are you serving the neutrality of the legal person governed by public law, do you serve any other ideal that we do because of the very limited horizons that we have as liberals do not know? Because as you know, we are not state-run, we are people who believe that if we let the entire sport bloom without intervention, without sworn powerless, then we will multiply the victories that our athletes will have at international meetings, then professional sport can be exemplified and made better. After all, four years now what has prevented you from copying the good practices of the United Kingdom, Belgium, I do not know what other European countries are to fight violence? You do not want to do so because behind this violence there are economic interests which you obviously do not want to displease. And all those who come here today and tell you "go for the great incision you do" are obviously followers of the account that you want to create and are not exactly able or willing to understand the dangers caused by this arrangement. So I, Minister, because I do recognise that you have served as secretary of the Anti-Corruption Secretariat, and that is where you had even held conferences, you have dealt very much with this issue, I would have had the requirement of you in fact to step up the strife and corruption, indeed to exalt the professional football that it has to. We all know that there is a way out with the provisions of the underworld, the margin of society. And through this very logic you cannot come today to say to us 'glorify me'. Finally, because I do not really want to abuse the hospitality that the President gives me, I would like to say this: If you really want us next to you in the resolution of sport, if you really want us to stand up to creating that sporting ideal that has emerged since the beginnings of the history of this place, you should be more honest first with yourself, more straightforward. Above all, you should not pretend about these provisions, which resolve matters of power in the field of professional football and amateur sport and do not create the conditions for its development, the development that Olympic ideals will have as guide. Because anyway, whatever you try to do, if there is a place where the light will be reborn, this is the place of Olympia, from which I personally have the honour of coming all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u545	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. I propose to give you two, three minutes for some clarifications that you want to give, because there are objections and I do not now want to have any regrets about'speaking'. The Minister will then be closed with general clarification and we will proceed to the vote. Mrs. Aylonitou, will you answer for a second? You want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u546	Yeah, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u547	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u548	Mr President, I would like to say that what the Civic Opposition is doing at the moment is to help Parliament, using various microcircuits, since Mrs Bakoyannis takes the status of Parliamentary representative, so that she can have the privilege of speaking more time, after consultation with Mr Javarras and then Mr Javarras, who has never given this consent, can also speak. These are tricks that are being used right now. What I would advise them is that they look better at each other before they decide to see what to do with the rest. The second comment I would like to make soon is that the New Democracy, the Civic Opposition, which has not even a programme in sport, left the sporting structure in a complete collapse without funding, without licensing facilities - very many things I could say - without the athletes being paid to us and comes to judge us in a bill, which at least strengthens democracy in electoral procedures and participation. The bill also strengthens transparency and accountability, things too important for the Greek people who are going to know each euro that gives Greek sport. From that point on, it settles the issues of Philippian Union of Greece, which has so far acted like a closed club. It regulates them in a way that ensures the consensus of all sides, so that the activity on the horse race can continue and the workers can also be guaranteed, but also the three thousand people who are bio-broadcasting. What I want to say is that of course we are voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u549	Thank you, Mrs. Alonitou. Come on, Mrs Karamanlis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u550	Thank you, Mr President. Now that the parliamentary procedure is concluded, I would like to make a few comments on three specific articles in order to clarify our position as a New Democracy, since the Minister did not take into account our remarks and, unfortunately, there was no consensus on his part in the two of these three articles. For Article 29, then, we said that we were in favour of remuneration for the executive president of a federation from own revenue and after the decision of the general assembly. As far as the restriction of terms is concerned, we have tabled our proposal. We have, of course, also asked for the opinion of the CEN. We have asked for it on several occasions in all the committees and today, but the Minister has never brought it. We have also asked him to break Article 29 and to leave the quota with which we disagree so that we can vote for it. The Minister did not do so and we are obliged to vote against it. In Article 31 for the purpose of auditing by the Public Administration Inspector, the Minister began fine, that is, he was in the right direction. That is why we were first positive, of course, highlighting the problems of the project. But he's coming now and he's ruining it. With your legislative improvement, Minister, it is confirmed that the arrangement for the Chief Inspector for Public Administration was a firework and has serious difficulties in its implementation. In fact, annull it before it is even applied. Place the sampling method without any testing criteria. Therefore, if we want to talk about transparency and in-depth control, it must be essential to all operators of sport rather than to sample checks. We are therefore voting 'at present' because, in principle, we are in favour of in-depth checks from the first euro and not from the 50 000, but in any case, as you ultimately do. Finally, you have not amended Article 58 so that the members of the ESRB and IRB will be accountable to third parties for fraudulent and serious negligence in the performance of their duties. So in that case we are voting against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u551	Thank you, Mrs Karamanlis. I also thank Mrs Kefalidou, who was typical, said she used her dentistry and doesn't want to talk. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u552	Thank you, Mr President. In all this, with the many amendments, with a very wide range, you can see that secondary ones are essential. We have proposed that we vote against the draft law. Our original intention was to vote'residents'. This position has changed us since the amendment has been tabled - a reproach, where you reduce the tax rate from 15% to 10% of the shipowners, big owners and industrialists, namely the profits distributed. It's a photographic, graceful arrangement for them. You had the opportunity, Minister, not to accept it, to withdraw. You didn't. It's politically pointing at you. You have a margin in your last position to say whether you accept it or not. Secondly, you have not taken up any of the amendments tabled by the JRC. You are also given a chance at the end to tell us if you are accepting it, and if you are not accepting it, why don't you do it, while until first you said that this is a fair request. We want clarification, we have put it in committee for Article 29, in relation to the payment to the executive president of a sports federation. What does "blessed reward" mean? The fair remuneration means from an initial amount up to a maximum amount, which determines who, ever, etc. and under what conditions can anyone get any reward? Give us an explanation to know what attitude we're going to take. We have asked a question, with regard to Amendment No 2022 and a specialist, 49, about the detailed periodical statements, to Mr Petropoulos. It is a good amendment. However, we have asked for a clarification. Is this about all the retroactive insurance of business workers who had not submitted detailed periodic statements? And under what circumstances, how this thing will be done, from time to time, etc.Huh? The answer was not sufficient. We will therefore vote'representations' in total, of course, in this amendment, because it is also the abolition of a printed health booklet. With regard to the amendment number 2023 and a specialist number 50 concerning the EEAS and the dental care of children from it, we consider that the government is announcing this provision, without at the same time ensuring the conditions for obtaining it. In addition to all the others, any expenditure on this programme is charged to the EEA, i.e. with foreign collisions, by the same workers, by their insurance contributions. Finally, Amendment No 2025 and the special number 51 are against it, but with the following clarification: We are voting against the article on the sponsorship of Europe's cultural capital, because this is where the sponsors, companies, etc. will be coming back. So we're against that logic. The regulation of issues of the complex of refugee apartments at Alexandra Avenue is very general. There is no answer to what kind of restoration work is going to be done. This rehabilitation - it says - can occur if it wants 66% of the joint-owners. Why 66%? What's that? No clarification was given about this. I think it's more photographic than that. And there is also the funding of film producers from the Public Investment Programme. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution. In what sense? There is a situation in the cinema with very little money. But, in any case, this money is necessary in order to meet this need. No cold, no heat. In this respect we shall say 'the present'. I could say a lot more, but time is pushing me. As a whole, in this last amendment we are voting 'no'. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u553	Mr. Gregos has the floor. I apologise for the change. You should have gone ahead. Well, it wasn't intentional to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u554	No problem. Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course - from what we have heard and agreed - sport unites. But the government, with what it does, divides the Greek people. And it's very important what I'm saying. We've heard too much in this bill. We also expected the whole world to listen to the important issues related to this bill. Citizens are entitled to and demand as athletes and as a fan world safe fields, good sports facilities, similar infrastructure. Because of course they pay for all this through taxes. Sport is no longer a special hobby. Fortunately, most families are caring for the proper forming of their children. Somewhere, however, this is bad because of the problems we all know. Of course, we are far from the ancient standards, which were of course ideal. We talked about its violence and its treatment. But we all know that violence is the same as the left and the right. They're the same concepts. Your children are the children of Exarchates, your children are the children in the yachts that you cover as government. You cover them in every way. Why, badly lying, we all know the identity of these parasitic people. The scourge of drugs is responsible for the violence in sports spaces. Of course, you haven't done anything about it either. On the contrary, I would say, yes. It is also truly tragic to see donor sports spaces from countries such as Turkey. There's a certain airline sponsored by Greek sports courts. In a short time, as soon as they're full, we can see the Skopje donating Greek teams and watching their sponsorships on the stadiums. We talked about the pervasive article on illegal immigrants and denounced the organized plan SYRIZA and New Democracy. So far you have not shown that you can offer something to Greek sport either, as in any other area. Your government with the support of MATs - as we have said - will last a few more months. This is certainly not a little time to destroy what is healthy and nationally left. The money, of course, that SYRIZA Members will get these months is enough, about 50,000 euros. We as Golden Dawn have a program and solutions to sport, because we have learned to be sporting from an early age. We are voting against all the articles in the bill. We are also voting against the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u555	Thank you, Mr Grego. Mr. Undersecretary has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u556	I'll be very brief. I want to clarify this. What does the amendment on Alexandra Avenue refugees actually say in practice? That the Attica region, which accounts for over 66%, can proceed with the rehabilitation of refugees by issuing a building permit and by releasing the property fragmentation problems known there. In what way will it be restored? The study recently adopted by the Central Council of New Monuments at the beginning of February. And what will be used? As a guest house for patients of "Saint Savva", as a social home to house the fifty ones who are still there. It is therefore clear that - if we want to compare to the old plans of 2014 for privatisation of refugees - we have a complete overthrow of the scene in favour of the public interest and of course with a very strong element of social protection. After this clarification, I would expect the Communist Party of Greece to be placed at least positive for this regulation, even if it votes against the amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u557	Can I ask you something, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u558	Yes, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u559	Can you tell us, Minister, when you say that permits should be issued by way of derogation from existing construction and construction legislation, what exactly do you mean? Because that's very general. In other words, you should define in terms of this, this and that matter. Because this derogating from every provision of urban legislation creates some reflection. We have no reason to say 'no', but I think there is an ambiguity here. And I say this to make this provision applicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u560	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u561	Would you also like the floor, Mr Synonymakis, in the same way as the Minister, in order to answer the whole question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u562	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u563	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u564	The explanation you give in part covers us. We're going to propose to you. Break this amendment down at three. We cannot now vote on the sponsorship of a European Capital of Culture together with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u565	He broke her. These are three articles, 69, 70 and 71.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u566	Are those three separate articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u567	You will not vote for an amendment to the article. You're going to vote 69, 70, 71.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u568	As far as I'm concerned, that's not the case, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u569	What's not true? It's broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u570	That is the whole amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u571	As far as I know so far an amendment, no matter how many articles it has, is voted on in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u572	It was distributed in a rare way. The inn has three articles. Each individual article of the amendment has been made and numbered in the insular, Article 69, Article 70, Article 71. If the rapporteurs vote based on the scarcity, there is no problem. If they vote on the amendment, there is a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u573	This will be clarified. It's a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u574	The amendment is one. What you see is the form of the law when it comes time to vote. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u575	Regardless of how many articles an amendment is made, a single vote is taken at the end, right? So this must be over sometime. In other words, these multimodalities, which include many articles, must be stopped. Because in one you say 'no', in the other you mean 'yes', in the other you say 'yes' and at the end you divide what you have to say about all of this. It's unacceptable. That's the one. Secondly, I said that it partly covers us. Of course, many of what you have said is not included in the explanatory statement, which is very brief and very unclear. From this point of view, I will insist on'residents' for this, but as a whole we will say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u576	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u577	First of all, I want to say that I'm a new State Secretary and I don't hide it. So next time I will have to bring in amendments, I will make sure that there is a possibility for the parties. In reply to Mr Javara, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, I would like to say that the derogation only applies to the percentage. It is well known that the 100% of the owners should be submitted to deposit a building permit. This is a special case, it cannot be solved otherwise. Either there will never be anything with Alexandra's refugee, or the Attica Region will go on over 66% of the law. The derogation for the issue of the building permit is only in percentage terms. I think it is clear from the wording. Maybe it could be a little better, but I think it is clear that this is going to happen. The study approved by the Central Council of New Monuments is the guarantee that what will be done there is a job in line with the high standards set by the Ministry over time and with all the governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u578	Thank you, Mr. Army. Now I will give the floor to the Minister. Minister, you have already spoken too much. I will give you five minutes and please while you can stay within this framework, so that we can proceed with the vote. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u579	First of all, before I go into the subject of the amendments, I would like to inform you that while we are here, as far as an outrageous and appalling event is concerned, an act of violence which is absolutely condemnable. As my partners have now informed me, there are various scenes on the Internet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u580	Minister, would you like to come to the Step so you can have your comfort with your papers? Come on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u581	During the meeting there was a truly horrifying incident of fanatic violence attacking a woman. I tried as long as we were inside to contact the Chief of Police to find out details. In any case, I'll let you know tomorrow what's going on. It is part of this specific clearing of an account, most likely, in the hooligans area. I express my condemnation, discomfort, and tomorrow I will visit the Chief of Police for more details and I will inform the political parties as well. From there on, I would like to refer to the amendments. First of all, let me say that I accept the amendments by a general number of 2005 and a special number 46, with a general number of 2009 and a special number 48, with a general number of 2022 and a special number 49, with a general number of 2023 and a specialist of 50 and a general number of 2025 and a special number 51. These are the ministerial amendments that I accept. And I now come to the parliamentary amendments. As regards the amendment, with a general number of 47, an amendment by Mrs Kefalidou and Mr Papatheodorou, I think that after the legislative improvement of the article, I do not accept it, but you are covered by this provision. With regard to the other two amendments, the amendment with a general number 1999 and a special number 44 by Mr Kremastinou and the amendment by Mr Syntagakis, Mr Steriou and Mr Vardalis, I do not accept them. We have put the overall framework for coaches in public consultation and dialogue. I have given my opinion on the issues and the particular situation of soccer coaches. We have reached an agreement with UEFA on this matter. CCAMLR has also been informed, and in a very next draft law that will regulate all this, this will also be settled. From there on, I come to some things that have been said by Mr Javarra about the guardians of the values of Olympism that is the Olympic Committee. We are respecting the Olympic Committee, although many times various facts are happening, such as when in the courts the fate of the Olympic Committee has been judged for months and it has also taken my own intervention, on a common confession, so that the matter can be resolved. Okay, we're not all responsibilities for the situation the Olympic Movement finds. From there on, Mr Javara, I am keeping the position of the Secretary-General of the Olympic Committee in the debate when he clearly stated that he must note that during the special consultation we had, that is to say, the Olympic Committee and I live with the delegation of the Hellenic Olympic Committee, many of our remarks which have been retrospectively submitted and in writing were accepted. In other words, there is a channel of communication and cooperation, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u582	I read the text.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u583	Obviously. I don't want to fire oil. I have kept low tons throughout the meeting and will continue with that logic. Besides, I think we're all working in the same direction at the end of the day. We are fully respecting the federations and the Olympic Committee and respecting them with 30% increase in their funding over three years, with the forecasts for the authorisations of civil servants who are members of them, with the possibility of recruiting scientific staff when we are doing events, with the possibility of providing financial compensation for the executive, with interventions in sports facilities and cooperation with the federations for the first time to make a serious programming when we are doing public works, which is also seen in practice by the International Sailing Centre and by the Sailing Federation that we have excellent cooperation. We also respect them with the scholarships we give upon their own suggestion. The Committee shall be composed of the Secretary-General of Sport, the Secretary-General of the Olympic Committee and the federations shall be recommended. It's a new law we've put in now. Furthermore, with the extraordinary funding to meet their needs and burdens from the past and all the contributions they make to their creditors many times, to solve their problems. We also have in this bill the main reason for licensing sports events and in any case - and I would like to say this - these four years, in addition to the interventions in professional sport, in professional football, only anyone who wants to hide the reality cannot admit that they have become deep areas, big changes, they have broken abscesses of years. We are not yet happy and we have a long way to go, but the international federations have come government's helpers for the first time. I would remind you that the last time she had tried a government - the New Democracy Government - to make similar speeches, turn her back and go back years. I don't get zero, but this time we did this. But these four years, in addition to the changes that we are bringing now and today, it is a day that marks a lot of things with the introduction of simple analogue, quota, the safeguarding of minority rights, these four years, beyond the projects of the Public Investment Programme, with more than 30 million euros that we have secured, two hundred nineteen projects across the country with other philosophy, 50 million euros from the Philosophy programme, targeted projects for targeted installations, targeted infrastructure for amateur sport. In the sports programs for all, which have been in place for four years in September, all trainers have been in place and paid on time. Swimming for third grade children, i.e. 70% of the third grade school population, has a free swimming lesson within the school program. We're done with the state's obligations towards athletes, we've repaid the state's debt, the state's money debt, because good photos, but that's how you show you care about these kids. We have established scholarships for young athletes with a financial problem, which do not have a sponsor, up to twenty-two years. We paid off the OAS obligations to third parties, over 5 million euros, when we received them in 2015. Extreme funding, as I have said before, depending on the needs of the federations. We set up the athlete's health card. There has been a new categorisation in the licensing of sports facilities, so that the municipalities too can breathe and have more brief and simpler procedures. We set up the sporting program in detention stores. Fifteen hours a week training the prisoners. Recruitment of distinguished athletes 2008-2009. We unleashed the recruitments to show them again in practice that we recognize their efforts. We established the Transport Equivalent for athletes of atomic sports, first step in front of the next coming and dealing with group sports. We increased the possibility of absenteeism in athletes. We established the strengthening teaching in them, because we prove that we want athletes who are first in all and are not cut off from the learning process. Interventions at the doping workshop that went to the "Democritus" and now operates as a research centre, while ensuring funding from the 2m euro Public Investment Programme, so that it has one of Europe's most modern equipment and is implemented in the next few years. The Czech Republic has become fully accepted and harmonized with international rules, so acceptable that the Council of Europe will hold its respective conference in Athens in April, and the next time we will also announce with the Ministry of Digital Policy and Minister Nikos Papapas a large program of digital interventions and digital facilities for amateur sport. I would like to say that in difficult years, in years that we have fought very great battles to keep the country up, where the budgets were not blooming, we have managed and held up the structure and made interventions that had not taken place for many decades in this country. And to close, because Mr Koutsoukos has generally commented on the general political situation, and I cannot help but comment, as long as we have heard - what have we been listening to? - that the evaluations will not be closed, the evaluations are closed. 'The cutter will enter'. The cutter didn't come in, the donor came in. 'It will not end the programme'. The program's over. 'The fourth Memorandum has come.' The fourth memorandum has not come, the reliefs and agreed reliefs from friends and partners and budgeted. 'The pensions will be cut.' The pensions aren't cut. 'We're not going to get out on the markets'. We also came out on the markets, when Cyprus came out after two and a half years after it came out of the program and we and with cash buffer we managed to get out in less than a semester. We are now waiting for the last act of your drama, the last act of your successful predictions of defeat in the elections. And that's where we'll let you down. And that's where we'll win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u584	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport is adjourned: 'Committee on Vocational Sport and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty-three articles, five amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Every time the screen shows up as four articles to vote, to vote and the rest, you have to roll the touch screen, do the so-called "scroll down". The vote will take place electronically. It doesn't appear, so I'll let you know. At the top of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the entire bill. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any information, please contact the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u585	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u586	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u587	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Committee on Vocational Sport and Other Provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u588	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u589	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept at this point whether we can resolve the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-06-S1-commons.u590	With the agreement of the House at 0.20 p.m. the sitting is closed for Thursday, March 7, 2019 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda that has been distributed to you.
