ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate of the topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Friday 29 March 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 441/26-3-2019 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Protection of citizens and borrowers from the abuse of legal offices as tax collectors". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios DRC to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Prevention of a position of professor of Shiro-Belissomy at the Democritus University of Thrace". 3. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "To settle directly the debts of the Local Improvement Institutions (TEIB) Ionian-Asine-Drepanos." 4. The Question No 450/26-32019 by F' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Let us stop the installation of wind parks in the mountainous peaks of the Agraphs". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 442/26-32019, the current question by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Catherine Iglezi, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Behaviours following the current environmental legislation and the approved environmental conditions of the Common Ministerial Decision approving Environmental Terms (CEC)’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 438/22-32019 was raised by Mr.Piraeus of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Changes in PPC tariffs'. 3. The question raised by Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis on the subject of 'Readaptation fees for large hydroelectric power stations' under number 427/19-3-2019. 4. The question by No 425/18-32019 of the Member of the Lesvos Parliament, Mr Charalambos Athanasiou, to the Minister of Migration Policy, on "Inhumane and degrading, for Lesvos and Greece, the current situation in the centre of reception of Moria". 5. Under No 279/15-1-2019, the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the transport equivalent". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 5080/28-1-2019 of the circle of petitions and questions Member Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning "the adoption of the necessary Ministerial Decisions to fill the organic positions of priests". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, I should like to make it clear to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the exhibition of the Chamber "Electherios VENIZELOS", twenty students from the International Centre for Greek and Mediterranean Studies. I would like to inform you that today you are following parliamentary scrutiny at this particular sitting. This means that the Members, who are asking the ministers on specific matters, and the ministers, who are answering and not presenting the rest of the Members, are present. That is why you can see that these colleagues are in the Chamber, especially from the opposition. But there can also be a question from the Collapsion to a Minister. The Ministers will also be present to respond. So welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Furthermore, the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development "Compatification of Greek legislation with Directive (EU) 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of know-how and business information that has not been disclosed (commercial secrecy) from illegal acquisition, use and disclosure (OJ L 157, 15.6.2016) - Measures to speed up the work of the Ministry of Economy and Development and other provisions". Before entering the topical and urgent debate, let me mention what will not be discussed. The first, with number 443/26-32019, top-stage question for the first cycle of MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject "Recompensation benefits for the regions in the administrative limits of which the reservoirs/frames of Mornos and Evnos" are located, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Christos Spirtzis, due to a workload. The fourth under number 446/26-3-2019 topical question from the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisi of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the "drug phenomena and disasters in the Dokos - Ag. Eleousa - Lianni Sand - Outside Panagitsa in Chalkida, it will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Christos Spirtzis, due to a workload. The fifth question, under number 434/22-32019, is the first question of the Greek Parliamentary I of the Union of Centres, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The supply of seven hundred 50 buses for urban transport - three hundred fifty for Thessaloniki" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Christos Spirtzis, due to a workload. The third, with number 447/26-3-2019, topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nicolas Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "The Special School of Zakynthos and the delay in the completion of the new building", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Christos Spirtzis, due to a workload. The fourth under number 445/26-3-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Dangerous "hot" in Apostlemi, in the Department of Gouves - Hersonissos", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Christos Spirtzis, due to a workload. Thursday under No 448/26-32019 a topical question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct restoration of the damage caused to Chania by the catastrophic floods, compensation for the whole of the injured" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Christos Spirtzis, due to a workload. The sixth question, under number 449/26-32019, on the second question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Dangerous working conditions of the employees of distributors", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Achtsioglou, due to a workload. The first question under number 436/22-32019 of a second question by the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukorous, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The harmonisation of the age of admission to Creative Employment Centres for Children (CEDEFOP) with the age of membership in compulsory education", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Theanos Fotou, due to a workload. The second, with number 435/22-32019, is a timely question for the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The time of the coastal races... counts vice versa", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports Mr. George Vassiliou, due to his absence from Athens. The seventh question by number 429/19-3-2019 of the second question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To deal directly with the problems caused by traditional wine growing and by traditional distillation", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Stavros Arachovitis, due to his obligations. Eleventh, under number 330/4-2-2019, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Evia Nikolaos Michou, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Continuance of persecution of Greek minority members in Albania", will not be discussed. The twelfth under number 284/21-1-2019 is a timely question for the second question of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: “Albanian street development of Great Albania”, will not be discussed. The thirteenth, with number 280/17-1-2019, is a topical question for the second of Parliamentary I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The co-management of the Aegean Government" will not be discussed. The fourteenth, with number 260/9-1-2019, topical question for the second cycle of the Member of Parliament I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouziou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways”, will not be discussed. The fifteenth, with number 261/9-1-2019, is a topical question for the second question of the MEP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed. Finally, the sixteenth question under number 263/9-1-2019 from the second question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "Cazan ready to explode the state of Skopje" will not be discussed. For all deferrals you have heard, there is a letter from the Secretary of the Ministerial Council. So we begin the debate of the third under No 432/21-32019 on the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Democratic Comparison Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "A hundred years after the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou continues to take action to promote its recognition by the international community." The current question will be answered by the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Markos Bolaris. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister for his presence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u3	Mr Colleague, the Ministers, whatever the government is, do not thank them. It is their primary task to monitor and to be present, regardless of who is in the government. The old parliamentarians are well aware of this. Mr. Bollaris is old, so he's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, allow me. When they're present, they're consistent. But when it's because of an impediment...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u5	All right, Mr. Carras. I'm zeroing your time and starting from the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u6	...there's the pretext of the workload, I've been protesting for eleven times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Carras, don't waste any more time. I covered you with my location.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u8	You caused me, Mr President. Forgive me. A year ago, in view of the anniversary of the 19 May - the Greek state of Memorial Day of the Pontian Genocide has legislated it, I asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a question and asked what action it had taken or was going to take for its international recognition, because it is an open wound to their offspring, who are in large numbers not only in Greece, but also worldwide, but also on the particular point that Turkey's provocation had to be stigmatized by international organisations, such as the UN and other international actors, given that there is a delay in international recognition. Only four states have recognized this genocide, a few states of the United States and the Russian Republic. This is not only about the moral justice of the offspring, but also about pressure on Turkish provocation, which, Mr President, was intensified at that time. Unfortunately, the answer I received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was inadequate. It was said that steps were being taken, which were not yet appropriate to be announced. Anyway, it's been a year already. In this year, at least officially, nothing was heard, nothing was announced. The issue is up-to-date, because on 19 May 2019 it will be a hundred years since the Pontius Genocide. We have the continuing statements made by the President of the Republic of Turkey, as 'we threw the Pontius into the sea, were gangs', meaning that it was obviously illegal. I, of course, am not Pontius. I have to say that. But a large part of the Greek population expects recognition and justice from the Greek state. After that, because it has spent a whole year and there has been no progress, I have come back with a question, Mr President, given the timeliness of the hundred years, where the Greek state should apologise for the lack of its action on the descendants of the Pontius. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank you very much because you have retabled the question by raising the issue of the Pontian Genocide, of which we are not celebrating a hundred years. We are shepherding, as the texts say, of Genocide, which occurred a hundred years ago plus, except for years - it began earlier - in Eastern Asia. As you know very well - you refer to it in your question - there was an initiative by a group of Members of Parliament who were in the 1990s to recognise the genocide by the Greek state and a few years later to conclude this decision correctly with a new law, which also recognised the Romans genocide in Asia Minor. It is clear - you are describing it in your question too - that the attempt to identify the international recognition of the genocide of the Roma and the Pontus and Asia Minor has not been successful, which we would like to see. That's why I thanked you in quotes. It is important that this debate be held in the House. And it is important that the debate on the proposal, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working on, should evolve. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] What is crucial to be clear, consistent and effective? We have a series of events that were unfolded in Eastern Asia, Anatolia, in the 1910-1920s, but continued after that. This action by the Ottoman and Turkish Government was then not solely directed against the Romans in Pontus, Pontius, nor against the Romans in Asia Minor, but was a broader genocide project. He turned against the Armenians with millions of victims, turned against the Pontians and the Asians, but turned against the Syrians and the Assyrians. In international public opinion, both in international forums and in governments, the concerns which exist mainly refer to the first categories, because they were from backward states. There was, that is, Armenia, which raised the issue. There was Greece, which highlights the issue and is fighting it internationally. The Assyrians and the Syrians, who do not have a state-owned entity to cover them, living even today among Iraq, Syria, Eastern Turkey, do not have opportunities to highlight the issue. So, what's the big one? What should we learn and what should we do? And in what direction is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs moving? Because the facts are identical, those who have recognised Armenian initiatives in the Armenian genocide, it is quite clear - and we must explain this and it is our responsibility to do so - to accept that they have recognised the Genocide and the Pontians and the Chaldeans and the Assyrians. It is a strategy which we, as a state, have to do, work with Armenia and the Armenian trade unions working around the world - both in France and in America and Australia - in this direction. And there's an excellent model of efficiency at work. This model is the work the Jews did. The Jews, with an excellent coordination, have succeeded and raised the issue of the Holocaust, the genocide, namely, of the Jews in Europe by the Nazis. I would like to tell you, Mr President, that this dimension has been understood very well by our fellow nationals, our compatriots, initially on the initiative of the Pontius in origin, but then by working together with everyone. And they work together in the United States and with Armenians and Jews, international organizations, but also with the smaller entities of the Syrians and Assyrians.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u11	Minister, I can't leave you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u12	I'm closing, Mr. President. I will be given the time to finish. That's where the Ministry moves. I'll say a few thoughts in my denture. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u13	Because of the importance of this matter, I have left you twice as much time. The question is not what the Pontius are doing in cooperation with the Armenians. The question is what the Greek state is doing over time - at the present time you are government - about the question raised by Mr Karras. That has to be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u14	Within his historical context.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u15	We know the story. Repussi, who fell into the sea because of a crowd. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u16	They had been pushed a long way - 'pressed' - towards the sea, Mr President. Regardless of this, I must admit, Mr President, that I did not receive a reply because - as you rightly pointed out - my question is addressed to the Greek Government and I would like to hear the Greek Government's response to its actions on this matter. Of course, international cooperation between the various communities located abroad - Armenians, Assyrians, Chaldeans, Greek Pontians - is always useful, but private initiative is not enough. The answer to my question a year ago was analogous to today. Others do, Mr President, I have to say. However, the Greek Government has a special obligation to act, not only to correct me if we celebrate the anniversary, or if it is a day of memory, because the day of memory may also be a celebration, because we remember the victims and honour them. Regardless of this, however, I am sorry to say, although it is not in my character - I have heard a historical acrobaticism today. They were linked by the Greek state, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to the issues of the Armenian genocide. I must say that I am aware of this and that the actions of the Armenian Government and the Armenian state are promoted against the actions of the Greek Government. They're much more advanced. If the Assyrians do not have a state entity, then the Greek state must protect them. Because I must remind you that there is a great community of Assyrians in Aegaleo - I do not know if the Minister knows that - and they are Greek citizens, with a Greek conscience now. We still have to support them. I didn't hear anything about it either. But what frightens me, Mr President - and I must say it - is that Turkish provocation continues. I won't say much. Only yesterday, on March 25, when the Prime Minister went to Agathonisi, was Turkish pilots harassed the helicopter he was flying with. In fact, if I understood it correctly, - I do not want to demand detailed information - the helicopter was forced to change its course, to go down and not to jeopardise the flight. All of this must be part of a broader reaction package of the Greek Government, in which at least we - and I personally - also include the issue of the recognition of genocide. I would like to remind you here, Mr President, that we also have an obligation on the international treaties to which the country is subject. The UN has said that the crime of genocide is irresponsible and historically no one disputes it for Greek Pontius and the Miracians. And the recognition of the Asia Minor has been made by the Greek state, but this does not give the government an alibi to say that everything has been done, because colleagues 20 years ago, twenty-five years ago, the Greek government was offered recognition. I have not received any reply, Mr President, because I expect to hear which international organisations the Greek Government has addressed and has submitted requests and documents, dossiers and packages. Diplomacy moves with evidence. I didn't hear anything. I believe that this inertia of the government now leads to the deletion of historical memory. So I think that the Minister, when he comes back to his dentistry, should give us concrete evidence. If it does not provide concrete evidence, it will have proved the Greek Government's complete indifference and inertia on a crucial issue. And let me remind you of something: Pontian Hellenism is a living cell of Greece right after persecution and we must not forget it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how 50 students and students and five teachers from the 2nd Naxos High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] By coincidence, your compatriot, Mr. Manios, is present and by fifty percent, and I, too, because I am a Cycladic, I am not a Naxiotis. I'm from Andros. Mr. Bolaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am sorry if I have not been understood, but I think in your question you admit that the policy pursued in previous years, from 1993 until now, has not had the results we wanted, neither Pontian Hellenism nor the victims or the relatives and descendants of the victims, nor Greece as a state. Why didn't that happen? Because it is the policy that is being pursued. Because it is wrong for two states and five entities to go all over the world, in all states, on their own, they are fragmented and they say'recognise my own genocide', instead of going a request, in coordinated fashion, which shows both the genocide plan and the genocide intention and the genocide effect on the part of the Turkish authorities. So I first analysed the plan. Why should you know, Mr Colleague, that Greek diplomacy consistently and constantly highlights the issue internationally, especially when we have such anniversaries, as is happening this year. The Greek Government has proposed and the Greek post offices will also make the anniversary series of stamps to send the message everywhere, recalling the fact. But the question is this: Are we then enough of a policy which has not had the results we want for twenty-five years? So the proposal is coordination - and that is what we are doing - that is what we are doing, that applies to the Greek Government - between the nations, between ethnic groups and the entities, in order to bring about the genocide in Asia Minor, Pontto and Haldia together. And since you have rightly referred to the issues of Turkey - and I am closing with these considerations, Mr President - I have to tell you what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also underlined, that the message from all the offspring of those who were victims of genocide to Turkey is that she must see herself in the face, see her history, see the truth, recognize the truth, compromise with the truth. Because to the extent and to the extent that he insists on silence, he insists on not recognising, he is also exposed as a state, he is also exposed as a people in the international community, not only to the descendants of the victims, not only to the Greeks, the Pontius, the Armenians, the Syrians, the Assyrians. This is the message to the Turkish side, especially this year that we are in the hundred years. They are obliged to see the truth and be the first to recognise their generic action to compromise with history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u19	We continue with the eighth question under number 402-4-3-2019 in the second cycle of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Full failure to carry out controls and sanctions on Greek sheep and goat milk". The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Tyloridou. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, we are finally here today, after a postponement, to discuss the major issue of the collapse of the Greek sheep and goatmeat, which, as a New Democracy for the last two and a half years, has repeatedly put it all over again. I imagine that your presence today is symptomaticly linked to the adoption of the long-awaited joint ministerial decision on milk control measures for more than six months. I say, incidentally, because this joint ministerial decision was finally signed last Friday, after the postponement of the relevant question Thursday, which I strongly protested about the flagrant violation of parliamentary control by your ministry's political leadership. At the same time as your ministry has been writing for six months, it eradicates this joint ministerial decision, as you know, the sheep and goatmeat sector collapses: rapid fall in prices for sheep and goatmeat, bread and slaughter of livestock, a reduction in farmers, that is to say, from a hundred to twenty-five thousand in eighty-three years over the last three years, as a result of your own policies. What policies? Tax and insurance raid, evacuation of production costs, distorted and subsidised distribution of compensatory compensation, little to everyone and not to the primary guardians of mountains and disadvantaged areas producing famous sheep and goat milk, but mainly total lack of control by your Government on the milk market. Our ovine and caprine farmers are blowing away. They are unable to operate on an uncontrolled market due to the seamless imports of cheap milk from Bulgaria and Romania, which is obviously Hellenistic. At the same time, Minister, the ELGO, on 17-7-2018, is talking about recommending fines to sixty-five companies because they did not deliver milk balances and twenty-four of these businesses, not even a litre. No sanctions have been imposed. I have also applied to you for documents from 23 July to which I request the Minutes and you have not answered them. The ELGO on 21 February 2019 says in its communication on livestock units producing disproportionate quantities of milk in relation to the declared livestock and to which there is no sanctions and fines. I would therefore ask, in closing, why no sanctions have yet been imposed on cheese shops and dairy industries, which do not indicate the quantities of milk they receive and which are illegally using the over-indulgence method. What are your actions in the case of stockfarmers that seem to produce surplus milk in relation to their declared livestock?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u21	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you refer to your question and start by saying that there is a strange coincidence in the issue of the Globe of the Government's decision to control milk and that this was immediately after your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u23	Symptoms, I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u24	So let me tell you that as far as the Official Journal of the Government is concerned, a ministerial decision takes at least fifteen, twenty days or one month before the decision has been signed, so there is no coincidence. It is something that has been launched and you know it very well. You say features of the disastrous policy of the Ministry of Rural Development and, more generally, the Government in the field of sheep and goatmeat, because we have an economic oppression of the rural world. I should like to inform you, therefore, if you do not know that, just in the past period in the Ministry of Rural Development, we have taken very important initiatives, which have led to the reduction of the farmers' insurance contributions in 1/3, the abolition of the trade fee for cooperative farmers and cooperatives, the incompatibility of the farmers' accounts with the EUR 7,500 which, together with the EUR 1,250 per month, reaches EUR 22,000. I would also remind you that we have given, in fact, a recognition of the problem of low milk prices, de minimis in December 42 million, trying to help ensure that the ovine and caprine income loss is as low as possible. So let me tell you that the checks carried out in recent years have been intensified. Characteristics in the last six months of 2018 only on the focus and only on the product feta have three and a half thousand checks have been carried out which have been found to be a hundred and twenty-seven infringements. These infringements have already been ratified. We are talking in particular about the case where you refer to farmers who have disproportionate quantities of milk production in relation to their livestock. It is for the national court to determine whether the conditions laid down in the first paragraph of Article 235 of the Treaty are fulfilled. Let me tell you that in the new ministerial decision the fines are too strict. You'll know it was up to 60,000 euros. In fact, let us say that in your own governments even these violations were in the drawers and never paid. On the contrary, this is now happening. The tightening up of sanctions for manufacturing enterprises is, therefore, for the closure of businesses for up to six months. As you are well aware, the Ministry of Rural Development does not have the possibility in the market to determine the prices of milk. So what we are doing is intensifying controls to put pressure on the dairy industry as well. Of course, if there is what you say in your question, a fraudulent conduct and behaviour that makes cartel, you can understand that the Competition Committee will intervene. In order to do so, however, it must be haunted. It can be done either on the part of farmers or on your side if you do have the information that the dairy industries are operating as a cartel and the Competition Committee will respond immediately and do the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u25	The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u26	What I want to say to you, by closing down, because really time is running out, is that we are trying in every way in this really difficult situation to help the sheep and goats and to provide a real way out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u27	Before I give the floor to my colleague, I have two letters to read to you. Mr President, we are telling you that the Independent MEP, Mr George Lazarides, in accordance with Rule 16(1) and (5) of the Rules of Procedure, accedes and joins the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. The declaration shall be signed by the President of the New Democracy Mr Mitsotakis and the Member concerned, Mr Lazaridis. The second letter comes from the Centroon Association and reads as follows: Mr President, we are aware that the position of our Party's Secretary of Parliament, Mr Saridis Ioannis, is the position of our Parliamentary Group. The President of the Party, Mr Vassilis Leventis, is signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u28	Mrs. Arabaji has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u29	Madam Secretary, I've been talking about coincidence. First, the FEK, if you like, is getting ready in an hour. This is the practice and you know it. But you did not have the ministerial decision to come and answer. That is what I have said and I support it. In relation to what you said, the policies you've been implementing, that you've reduced insurance contributions, you've celebrated when you made them at 20% with the Katrugalo Law. Now you celebrate doing it again at 13%. But you are not saying the truth, Minister, that since the Katorugalou Act you have continued to link insurance contributions to income, the total welcome and voted for by the New Democracy increase in the minimum wage, which you have been late for two years, will bring farmers - whom you say that you are reducing them - EUR 300 a year for additional contributions. So, what you're supposed to give from reducing insurance contributions you get from the other pocket. As regards the de minimis aspirins, Minister, which are national money, as you know, and you cannot have them last minute for election, I have nothing to say. The question is, the industry is falling apart. The question is that fines are not imposed because if they were imposed, you would reply to my request for documents from 23 July. If they were to be imposed, the ELGO would not get this press release. I shall submit the above documents. With regard to the fines you say that they were not paid in the new Republic, do you practically have to submit here to Parliament officially so that you do not throw lymphs? Obviously you can't determine the prices of milk, Mrs. Tyloridos. We're talking about a liberal economy. But what you can do is hit the Greeks and at last do checks, Mrs. Tyloridou. You made a joint ministerial decision which was very bad for nothing. And not just that. Even worse, the first thing you do is increase the contributions of cheese farmers and farmers from 0.5% to 0.75%. And I'm asking, in the middle of this crisis, what's the point and where's the money going? Secondly, you are talking about competent services to monitor the movement of products at the points of entry of the country. When will they be served by whom? The lactic period is over in one month. Have you asked the Ministry of Administrative Reform and why should the audit be a sampler and not a Catholic? Thirdly, you say ‘on-the-spot check with notice’. Why, Mrs. Tyloridou? Amid this crisis, will you check with warning? And I ask: in what cases is the warning necessary and fully justified? And don't get confused with Regulation 625/2017 - because you're going to tell me - which says a warning. However, no regulation prohibits stricter controls in national law, especially when there is a crisis. Also, you do not press the problem of the triangular route, on which the Greekizations take place. You may even legalize it by abolishing the provision of the earlier joint ministerial decision, which imposed fines for the irregular use of raw materials, i.e. concentrated milk. You, the fine for anyone who used concentrated milk, come and remove it. Fifthly, you do not make any reference to the dairy industries which use common milk tanks, both for foreigners, fresh and concentrated, which can well mix the foreign, fresh and concentrated, with the domestic one, and no mention of the separate production lines of the emblem products, of the PDO and of the PGI.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u30	Mrs. Arabatzis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u31	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u32	I've already given you a minute and a half already. One more, and we'll close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. I'll say one last thing, closing. You are also abolishing the obligation of the previous CRL - that is, even fewer controls, which you leave uncontrollable - which said that once in three years milk buyers, i.e. cheese houses, have to be checked. You are abolishing this, Mrs Telgioridou, in this particular joint ministerial decision, and you are content with the 5% sample control, which, of course, was the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u34	Mrs. Arabatzis, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u35	My question is whether you will speed up payment of the related aid to ovine and caprine milk for the beginning of April rather than for the end of May, with this income collapse that prevails in the industry. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u36	Mrs. Undersecretary, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. All the evidence - and I have submitted it to a previous question in the House on the checks - shows that, in the course of our government service, from 2015 onwards, these checks have been intensified and far more has been done. I can tell you, therefore, that in the first nine months of 2018, only from "ELGO - PIMITRA" to milk and milk products enterprises have become two hundred 12 controls and a fine has been imposed on thirteen companies. I told you before, especially for the FFD, that three and a half thousand tests have also been carried out in catering areas for feta. So let us say that these checks are carried out because we really have the full potential to show on the market that there is no possibility for this government to allow the consumer to be misled, but also to reduce the income of producers. It is really a good question for the New Democracy to speak about support for the rural world, the cooperative movement. I will give you just one example: the sale of the 'DOMONIS'. It is really very strange to try to defend, supposedly, the rural world. And I appreciate that your interest in this, as a party I'm talking, is really fine. You refer to the specific things of the Ministerial Decision that I will try at the very short time that I have to answer. You say 'Where did the checks come up with a warning'? You should know that Regulation 882 of 2004 is in force.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u38	I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u39	You talked about 625. I would therefore mention that at the moment in place is 882/2004, according to which controls are carried out suddenly, except in cases where they should be notified. For example, remote areas where the control mechanism cannot go and cannot be controlled. I would also remind you that on-the-spot checks are distinguished between regular and temporary. Regular checks are possible with a warning, which we are reducing in this ministerial decision and which is at most forty-eight hours. Exceptional checks are always surprising. So you should know that in regular checks there is a warning, so that the check can normally be carried out. As far as the over-indulgence that you have said is concerned, the production lines obviously do not exist in this ministerial decision, because it is not the subject of this ministerial decision how to over-exploit it. Overfiltration is controlled on the basis of other ministerial decisions implemented by the "ELGO - DIMITRA". So overindulgence is not included in this ministerial decision, because it is legally covered by other ministerial decisions. The overindulgence, of course, of the PDO product is forbidden. If we find, then, that overfiltration equipment is inserted on the feta line, there are penalties and fines. So it would be a good thing if there were also in this ministerial decision on milk controls.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u40	Why are you increasing contributions?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u41	Close and I'll make an observation later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u42	So what I want to tell you is that, with this Ministerial Decision, we aspire to have better control on the market. The administration of the services you've just said exists. From there, of course, we have established, in cooperation with the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, that an additional hundred and eighty people should be recruited to serve the central agency and the auditing mechanisms to extend the management of the audit mechanism. At the same time, I should like to inform you that the control mechanisms will now be in operation twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, so that there is no possibility of illegal and fraudulent imports of milk which are then Greekised, due to the lack of control mechanisms due to their time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u43	I would remind you that the timely question, based on the Rules of Procedure, contains a question, Maximum two. When the questions are over ten, that is a question. Today, because as you know, we're going to interrupt to start again at 12 noon, you see me elastic. Do you know how long the question lasted? Twenty minutes. If we were to start the bill I would have interrupted you and that is not pleasant for any president. I would therefore ask for a warm request for the years to be observed. The ninth question of the second question of the Radical Left coalition MP Mr Nikolaos Maniou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food will now be discussed. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Tyigoridou. Here, Mr Manier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Let's start with something sweet on our day, with the cycladic honeys that, as you know, is of great quality. The question I have tabled is a pleasant one, because one of the measures which will be claimed by the proposal, the disposal of honey by the producers themselves under control and some of them has already been introduced. There is one question, however, which concerns the fact that, although the strict scientific term says that honey is not a product that comes out with some treatment - intervention by the beemaker - it is a product that the bee does, but it is accompanied by products such as propolis, cane etc. We do not, unfortunately, value Greece. So the question is this. If we incorporate beekeepers - beekeepers in the cottage sector, which is an institution that has encouraged the processing and sale of products by small producers and their place of production and outside this place of production - and this helps the maximum in the income of small producers - it will enable beekeepers to gradually develop the awareness of the correct standardisation and marketing of their products and the other products which must be sold in special areas, such as propolis and wax and the others we have said. I would like to say first of all that it is good that it was voted to give up to a thousand pounds per year of honey, but we need to include the product in the broadest sense in the industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Manier. Here, you have the floor, Mrs. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, as you have said very well, the House has indeed given small rural enterprises a special impetus. Indeed, its role is very important. However, I would like to say to you that the industry is mainly concerned with processing and on the basis of Regulation 852/2004, which determines processing, it is the energy by which the original product is actually modified, whether by heat treatment, by drying, extraction, or by extruding, or by combining all of it. As you can see, honey is a product whose composition and physical status are such that there are no human interventions. It is a product which is not processed. In this sense, only products containing honey and to which nuts, dried fruit, mastic, yeast, etc. have been added may be included in the eco-label. On the basis of the ecotechnic decision, but also of the fact that honey cannot be processed, I think it is understandable that in honey what can be done is only in its base to be packed and cannot be included in the ecotechnics. Nevertheless, in order for us to give a substantial way out to the people involved in beekeeping, as you quite rightly said, we have made a joint ministerial decision enabling small producers to supply their products directly to retailers up to a quantity of one tonne and two to ten kilograms. So I think that despite the fact that, on the basis of definitions and rules, honey cannot join the household, this ministerial decision gives the small producers another way out so that they can actually use their own produce and receive the profit from this production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Manier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, thank you. Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary, and here it will look like a oxymoor. While I agree with what you have already done and while I agree with knowing what honey is, the definition of honey, it is an issue that may also need to be solved by legislative provision. Why do I insist on that? Because the establishment of the cottage, as amended in 2015 by the SYRIZA Government in a relevant decision that came out on 17-11-2015, is an institution now perceived to small producers of all kinds of products processed. If we include the beekeepers - beekeepers, small and large - who want to be able to join the eco-management institution, we will give the impetus they need to understand the possibilities and not to sell the honey, without prejudice to other products, which are not honey, but are coming out of the process of separateing the honey from other products, and which are even higher price on the market and have greater demand, especially from modern pharmaceuticals that want propolis products, waxes and even poison, which come out of the beekeepers, in order to enrich their products. In that sense, I thought there was something oxymobile. I agree with what happened. The beekeepers in the Cyclades embraced it very positively. I have contact with them. There is, however, a political incentive to expand the institution of the economy. It should be considered whether this can be done legally. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. My dear colleague, it goes without saying that we are trying to be useful and to help deal with issues such as what you have raised. But I want to make it clear to you that there are some things that are objective. It is therefore objective that the creation of honey cannot be altered. So what we are obliged to do is to follow Directive 110/2001, on the basis of which human intervention cannot be made for the creation of honey. It is prohibited under this directive, especially for honey, because the rules which must apply to honey are too strict. It is prohibited to add ingredients to honey. I think you understand that it's not easy to change the natural condition of honey to incorporate it into the crafts. I do not hide my intention to see whether there are any possibilities, as you say, in advance, but I think this is very difficult to do. Because, in fact, there is this difficulty, we made progress in the ministerial decision, which I told you before, where every small producer can produce and dispose of the product of his hive himself in a quantity of ten kilograms per hive and up to a quantity of one thousand hundred kilograms. However, I think we can agree that some issues relating to the physical composition of the product cannot be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much. We move to the tenth number 392/26-2-2019 topical question of the second question of the New Democracy MP Mr. Georgios Stylios to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Climate change is here. The necessary infrastructure is missing...’. The Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Vassiliou. Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to say to you, to hear from the Minister and the other ministers, but to inform the citizens, as you said, that the question has been tabled since 26-2-2019. It is a timely question and is being discussed a month later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u53	You're lucky!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President! Minister, I shall return, after a number of questions, to the question of forging our farmers to the extreme weather phenomena, which unfortunately appear more and more frequently because of the phenomenon of climate change. In recent times the wider area of Arta has been affected by continuing bad weather and very low temperatures. The acute weather phenomena are accompanied by snowfall and ice cream with obvious effects on crops and especially on citrus fruits. This year, the entire Arta and Epirus and Western Greece saw extensive acarpia in olive, citrus and kiwi cultures due to prolonged anomomombia, high temperatures and major vulnerabilities in irrigation infrastructure. Geographical estimates show that this year, production for the olive of Arta will be reduced by 50%, while in areas where there is no irrigation infrastructure, the reduction in production is 70%. Under these circumstances it is expected that the effects on producers, who see their herbal capital being destroyed and their properties evaporate, will be drastically expected. At the same time, ELGA is fully analogous to the risk-free and non-liquid, since its reserves have been transferred since April 2015 by an act of law. Producers are occasionally compensated as it considers that the reduced production is not caused by extreme weather. You ask yourself, Minister: what action do you intend to take in order to protect producers from extreme weather phenomena, given that these occur more and more frequently due to the phenomenon of climate change? Are there any studies at your Ministry for the construction of pumping stations in Epirus, Arta, and especially in the semi-urban areas? If yes, what budget do they have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for the very important question. First of all, a number of words have been liberated within the question, which it is important to clarify. There is no question of the ELGA available. Evidence is that the flow of estimates and compensation is continuous. For 2017, ELGA paid compensation of EUR 170 million, while for the damages for 2018 it has so far paid EUR 46 million. Therefore, there is no question of the ELGA. Let me remind you here, of course, that in the past compensation has been paid for subsidies without estimates and that the ELGA will receive loans and have suffered the liabilities of EUR 4 billion. He took loans to cover not appropriate, not legal insurance allowances for the known packages. But I am coming back to the essence of your question what ELGA is doing now. First of all, for the Artas Regional Unit, which you are right to raise, there have been hundred and twenty announcements and two thousand eight hundred twenty statements of damage have been submitted. The amount of EUR 1.733000 has been paid and a new payment is expected in April 2019. The organisation's planning shall be to make payments every month with a horizon until June, July 2019, so that the losses of 2018 have been cleared. What have we achieved? We've been able to clear the damage in six to eight months. However, there are many damages - you say this in your question - which are not covered by the ELGA, such as protracted malaise on olives or citrus fruits. However, if they fulfil the conditions of the law, which I quote: firstly, that production of the year of damage receives at least 30%, secondly, scientific evidence by a committee designated by the Ministry of Finance, thirdly, official meteorological data must confirm the characterisation of weather as unfavourable and fourthly, the cost of compensation for damages by the General Accounting Office of the State must be approved. The ELGA has therefore already paid this amount I mentioned to you, EUR 1,700,000, and a new payment is expected in 2019. Secondly, for the damages which are not covered by ELGA, they are subject to the conditions I mentioned in the PSEAs and in my denture I will tell you what the Ministry is doing in the light of climate change, what ELGA has done, but also what the projects you are asking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u58	Minister, I would like you to know that for me and for the New Democracy, the questions of farmers and producers are very high on the agenda, especially for the area of Arta, Epirus and Western Greece, because it is an area where its economy is based mainly on the rural economy. That is why I am not tired, and I am not going to stop constantly in parliamentary control, asking you questions and pressure so that you and your ministry, as well as the organization, ELGA, work more quickly, more intensively, because we are more effective because we are interested in doing his work and sending money to the producers, not to groom them for micro-political reasons then, but because they really need them. So I keep your answer. We expect compensation for the records, which have been made in the previous period, and we expect them to be both immediate and good, because there are - according to what I receive from the citizens and the world - guidelines from the ELGA administration to reach a certain limit, rather than the assessors to assess the real damage that exists. Let's go down. I also raised the question of whether you are generally aware of it and whether you have put it at the informal session of Agriculture Ministers in Sloskov in Austria in September 2018, you did not take a stand on climate change, which was also its central issue, while you are aware of the European Union's favourable arrangements for direct compensation for producers from national resources through R & D&D. And to the questions I have put to you, please tell me what the conditions are. That is not the point, Minister. We also know the conditions for them and you and you and the farmers and producers know them. The question is what your actions are, what initiatives are you taking in the European Union, if you really believe, to fight, to bring more money to farmers for this fair matter? And I come to the footnote that I left before in relation to micropolitics. In the press releases of your Ministry, Minister, which have at times been issued by de minimis payment of State aid of EUR 1 million recently to the shipowners, EUR 8.2 million to the tobacco producers, EUR 10.2 million to the producers of table peach and nectarines, and prior to the granting of de minimis aid of EUR 42 million to ovine and caprine farmers. There is no provision for citrus fruit. And I say to you, Minister, that there is no oil crop and there has never been, and you have never given any specific answer, as well - note this and ask the services of ELGA - how many years there has been compensation from ELGA to olive growers. You'll see that it's over the decade and more. Finally, Mr Minister, please tell us what action you intend to take to promote climate change in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u59	Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, as I said in the prototype, on the one hand, ELGA takes care of the properness, timely and legitimate payment of compensation. So all the conditions of the law must be interested. Overthrow the conditions of the law and perhaps pay compensation and then four years later get called up with recovery and turn them back? Oh, no! You are right to put the agony of the farmers there. As regards climate change, on 13-12-2018 the ELGA decided and commissioned a tender - it is in full progress - to amend the ELGA regulation. The last amendment to the Regulation was in 2011, but it was not intended to change or to supplement the insurance risks. The amendment was clearly related to financial contributions. Therefore, in 2019 the competition for the proportionate study will be finalised in order to subject other causes to ELGA and other insurance risks, says the law. Because, in fact, many crops are not subject to the compensation of the ELGA. In 2019, the proportionate study will be ready. As far as the projects you have said are concerned, you are doing well and you are asking, but I will reply to the letter from the Directorate for Changes. No request was submitted by the Region of Epirus or by the local bodies of land improvements to metro 4.3.1, entitled ‘Hotel improvements infrastructure’. I think the comments are superfluous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u61	We move on to Question 5511/8-2-2019 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of the Ilias of the Democratic Independence Mr Giannis Koutsoukou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: 'The dramatic situation in the irrigation network of Elias and the indifference of the Government'. The Undersecretary, Mr. Kokalis, will answer that too. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know that farmers in the polypathic Elias are facing many problems. They have been placed in a variety of ways in the political leadership of your Ministry, in the presence of operators, farmers and SYRIZA Members - we are excluded from the deliberations, it is a new way of dealing with this Parliament - but the point is that there are no solutions. One of the big issues, therefore, which you know very well, Mr Minister, is the problem of the irrigation network in Elias. We've talked about it before in your office, and you've answered to me and to an older question that you're going to do something. Unfortunately, not only did you not do anything, but the problems were very acute in the previous irrigation period. And the unprecedented "first time left" government happened, PPC shutting off the switches! And the TWGs were forced to resort to insurance measures and the judge, in order not to destroy the crops of the summer season, ordered the electricity to come back. Of course, this court dispute with PPC continues. So what do the TWGs want, Mr Minister? They are calling for a sustainable solution. They have accumulated debts in PPC, in IKA, in the public sector by GEOB, and they demand a sustainable type-up of twenty-dollars so that the doses that will arise along with the current ones can be served by the receipts. Because when you put the knife in their throat, they'll shut down and destroy the agricultural production. That's what you haven't answered. That's the one thing. The second issue, Mr Minister, is what you have raised earlier with your colleague in the New Democracy. You know very well that there is an approved study for the substituting of the Gaston - Amaliada - First Tower - Epilopi in the Programme for Rural Development. It's from the past period, so it's a priority. There is a request from the Region of Western Greece to integrate these projects into measure 4.3.1. You've answered this to me in a previous question. However, we do not have an answer as to whether these projects will be included in the programme to date. And most important of all, in my opinion, is this. There is an antiquated equipment in motors - as we say - the TWGs and the GFCF and there is no replacement programme. That means, Minister, that we have by 50% more energy consumption and that creates a vicious circle of obligations that the GFCM and the TWG cannot respond to. And you have no program to replace this old equipment. So we have very complex problems and we expect solutions in the new growing season not to address the problems we had last year. I am also interested in the farmers of Elijah to answer your question, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u63	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u64	In my turn, too, I have listened with a lot of interest to your question, and I have read it very carefully, and I have to put myself in some of the things you have raised. Under the 'CALICRATES' law in 2000, farmers irrigated know whether these land improvements did their job properly or did not. These land improvements were abolished in 2011 and TWG surveillance went to the municipalities. I will not answer the question I am going to ask. Was this abolition of land improvements in the right direction? This abolition, combined with the increase in production costs, in PPC's tariffs, together with mismanagement in some cases - I call for reports of sworn accountants - has led several TWGs, not all of them, and GFCFs to have superfluous debts. Because you said what we did, I will necessarily say what you did, who you abolished. In 2017, we brought two pieces of legislation. In 2017, under Law 4456, we transferred the supervision of the Improvement Agency from municipalities to regions and, secondly, we enabled them to recruit staff, Mr. MEP, in order to do their job. Also, with Law 4546/2018 issues were dealt with in terms of increasing debt collection, i.e. the possibility of regulating the debts of GFCF - TWG - irrigated farmers - three parties - and then their assurances, that is, we gave them the opportunity to increase the collection. From that point on, PPC is obliged. The TWG and the GFCF in Elia owed EUR 9 million. A few days ago there were meetings, according to PPC's announcement. We do not represent PPC, but I must remind you of the document that there were meetings a week or ten days ago towards finding a sustainable solution to the debts of these agencies. You know very well that we're with them. With regard to the demand for the project, the Ministry has indeed proposed this project. You said you didn't get an answer. After Genarus started the evaluation! In one month's time, the evaluation of all projects will have been announced. What I can tell you is that this is at a very good point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u66	Minister, first of all - I should first of all like to thank you, because at least you come here and answer the topical questions, unlike Mr Tsakalotos, who is looking for him for about a year, like some other ministers. In any case, the substance of your reply is at all unsatisfactory in relation to the section on debt settlements. For, beware, it is another thing for the government to legislate, as it thinks of other debtors - the hundred and twenty instalments or a model corresponding to a hundred twenty instalments - and for PPC to do well. PPC, Minister, demonstrated its evil face when the switches were closed last year and this year it continues the legal dispute with TWG. He forced a TWG to disburse 500,000, who would need it for operational purposes, with a threat of shutting down the president and the board of directors. And now in the negotiations you are saying, it makes a proposal which leads to unsustainable management. Because when he gets them all the receipts, they won't be able to pay the rest of the operation. And let them go, which in many cases the receipts are not enough to pay the dose proposed by PPC. You must know that there are two problems, Minister. I guess you know. One is that the cultivated areas have been reduced - so receipts have been limited - and the second is that the cost of energy has increased. I was told President TWG that in relation to five years ago the cost of energy has doubled. And this was not because of the above use, but because the electricity price increased. So there is no other solution than to regulate. And I want to remind you of something. Because you referred to your first speech about the collection, that is, the possibility of TWGs going to the DUs, you could make a similar arrangement with the one you have made for the municipalities. What did you do to the municipalities? The budget paid the obligations of the municipalities in PPC and withholded this money from the CFP. Since then, when TWGs receive through DUs from the budget, you could make a corresponding arrangement, a public guarantee, that is to say, in the regulation of PPC. Look at it as a thought. The TWGs have proposed it - from what I have been told - to recent meetings you have had. So this matter remains unsolved. Secondly, I told you about the subsidy it needs to deal with problems arising from natural disasters and floods. In my earlier question, you answered that there was no request from the GFCF. I think it is incomprehensible that there should be no demand at the time when they were forced to make additional costs to deal with flooding problems in the drainers and in the engines that have been destroyed. Thirdly, I am pleased that you are referring to the positive outcome of the request for the substitutability of the five TWG network - which I mentioned - and their inclusion in measure 431. Our criticism of this, Minister, is as follows. You are too late for the rural development programme. I believe that your term of office will not expire and that you will be able to incorporate this project. I have also spent a short period of time from the Ministry, and I do not think that this was a policy of serving Elijah from which I come from, but it was a necessity, because - you know - the open network, namely watering through the cinnamon, leads to a loss of water resources, which means that the project is in future being devalued.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Kutsuko, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u68	So I think you should have a chance to put it in. Thank you, Mr President, for this little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Cocksucker has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I note that you are focusing your debts more on PPC, but we are not PPC. We are assisting in the direction of a favourable regulation. As far as the debts of the natural persons, of the farmers to PPC are concerned, a month ago we arrived at some good solutions. These solutions will also be proposed to PPC for both TWG and GFCF to follow. Because, in fact, in the past - and when I talk about the past, I mean for 2018 - we had excesses from PPC to TWG, when it comes to recovering debts. We will do our utmost. We've said it's a debt certificate. Prior to the confirmation of the debts, the 2017 Act states that the arrangement with farmers has to be made irrigated first and then the attestation. As a last resort, the attestation is. Secondly, you said about restoring damage. I forgot to say that a sum of EUR 20,000 was paid to the Peloponnese TWG for the recovery of flood damage. This request has indeed been made to us. And as far as this project is concerned, 17,420,000 euros is concerned and it is about undermining natural flow networks - well you are doing it and highlighting it - and in one month there will be an announcement of the results of the evaluation by the competent authority of the Ministry of Rural Development. I would remind you that in December 2018 the deadline for submitting applications has expired. They became - and are made - very quickly and in a month's time they will be announced for all of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u71	The second question, under number 444/26-32019, of the second question by the Member of Parliament, Heraklion of the Democratic Independence, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The Municipality of Crete and the Region are excluded from the new Programme. Of the eight thousand single thirty three seats are reserved for Crete only,” he said. There was a car crash - not the same - and it has, as you can see, a blockage in Kifisia. Mr. Kegeroglu cannot be present. And so I detached the current State Secretary, Mr. Barca. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate is closed and we are adjourned. The sitting, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents, will be resumed at 12 noon on the subject of legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and a vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "The harmonisation of Greek legislation with Directive (EU) 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of know-how and business information which has not been disclosed (commercial secrecy) by illegal acquisition, use and disclosure (OJ L 157, 15.6.2016) - Measures to speed up the work of the Ministry of Economy and Development and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 27 March 2019 to discuss the draft law at one to two single meetings in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u73	The House has agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few announcements here. The Minister of Finance, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Health, Environment and Rural Development and Food, the Deputy Minister of Finance, as well as the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and Finance, tabled a draft law on 27-3-2019: "Creation of the Minamata Convention on Mercury". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Minister of State, the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic and Administrative Reconstruction, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, tabled a draft law on 26-3-2019: "Recommendation, establishment and responsibilities of the Central Codification Committee and other provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics also submits its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. We are starting with the rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr Ioannis Sifakis. Mr. Sifakis, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u74	Tolerant, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u75	There will be a relative tolerance for everyone. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of suggesting to the National Representation this bill of the Ministry of Economy and Development, which contains many positive provisions, concerning various sectors of the Greek economy, meets years of requests from many productive bodies, has a clear sign of development and, above all, mobilizes productive forces of Greek society in the direction of productive reconstruction at a time when this is exactly what is needed for the country. It is no coincidence that in the second committee at the hearing of the bodies, we heard twenty-six producer bodies, all of which were positive as well as positive for the bill under discussion, giving their thanks to the ministers. In fact, most reported that this bill meets requests of many years that did not find ears in the past. Of course, there have also been requests that have not yet been met, but the eighth part of the bill comes up with the ministerial amendments incorporating several more demands put forward by the producer bodies. The draft law also introduces the fundamental issue of the new framework for the protection of the principal residence of vulnerable natural persons and of a mechanism for regulating non-performing housing and business loans, which are secured by a mortgage or a mortgage attached to a principal residence. For once again, the "Cassanders" of the Officerial Response for the Government's Failure, the failure to negotiate, for "devils" and "treams", for clashes within the government and other such graphics. We sincerely want to know what they are going to say to the Greek people and what credibility they will be given with so many dissentings over their myths over the last few years. And now they are forced to say that they will vote again on the government's measures with irresponsible left-wing ideas. Protection of the principal residence of vulnerable natural persons is a social need and the state must ensure it. It is a commitment that we have fully implemented. In view of the fact that the protection of the main residence, with Law No.3869/2010, the Katseli Law and its amendments by the then Minister of Economy, George Stathakis, had been applied for the applications that were made until 28 February 2019, a new institutional framework is required in the new economic context that is already beginning to change. Particularly important is the fact that, for the first time in this context, the business loans are also subject to the addition or mortgage of the borrower’s first residence. Furthermore, for the first time, the contribution is provided for, the State’s grant for the entire duration of the lease, up to twenty-five years, in the instalments paid, to be determined by common ministerial decision in the following period. These arrangements relate to over a hundred and fifty thousand borrowers, perhaps more than 70% of natural persons having loans with addition or mortgage of their first residence. The framework introduced is designed to protect the people's housing, but it also protects medium-sized main homes, on the basis of the threshold set, while also addressing the paths of the system by removing the possibility of using beneficial provisions by strategic misappropriators. The conditions to be fulfilled at the same time, according to the proposed draft, are as follows: The value of the protected principal place of residence at the time of the application does not exceed EUR 175,000 if the debts include business loans, or at EUR 250,000 in any other case. The family income of the applicant for a natural person in the last year, for which a tax declaration is possible, shall not exceed EUR 12,500. This amount shall be increased by EUR 8,500 for the spouse and by EUR 5,000 for each dependent member up to three dependent members. So, for a family with three children, it's 36,000 euros. The family income limits were shaped in such a way that they correspond to the reasonable living needs, which include the basic needs for household living and additional focus needs, as determined by ELSTAT, increased by 70%. If the total debt exceeds EUR 20,000, then the property of the applicant, his spouse and dependent members, in addition to the principal residence of the applicant, and the means of transport of the applicant and his husband must have a total value not exceeding EUR 80,000. Deposits, financial products and precious metals of the applicant, the spouse and dependent members must have a total value not exceeding EUR 15 000. Total outstanding capital, including booked interest and, if there are execution costs for the debts, shall not exceed EUR 130,000 per creditor. They are thus regulated for a debt in which the above conditions are cumulatively met, debts to the banks for any reason, as well as debts from a housing loan to the Deposit and Loan Fund, provided that such debts have been registered prior to the exercise of the mortgage application or an addition of a mortgage to a property used as principal residence, and such debts are at least 90 days behind the date of 31 December 2018. For the protection of the principal residence, the applicant pays 120% of the commercial value of the property in monthly equivalent interest payments at a rate equal to the Euribor quarter plus 2% over a period of up to twenty-five years. If 120% of the commercial value of the property exceeds the total debt, then the total debt is paid in corresponding interest payments. For the first time, the public also contributes to monthly payments for the payment of instalments. The public contribution lasts for as long as the regulation is implemented. The conditions and amount of public contribution shall be automatically reviewed each year. The process is conducted through a digital electronic submission and application management platform developed by the Ministry of Finance's General Secretariat of Information Systems in cooperation with the Private Debt Management Secretariat. The platform shall inform the applicant of its eligibility or not before the final submission of its application. If no consensual arrangement is reached, the debtor shall be entitled to request the settlement of his debts by judicial decision. After notification of the application, as the applicant is considered eligible, any auctioning of its main residence shall be automatically suspended. By implementing the Prime Minister's announcements on the protection of the first residence, particularly of the people's home, the government is moving on with justice, efficiency and determination in its legislation. In the new period that the country has entered with the economy at a rate of growth and the great effort to productive reconstruction, the parallel policies to ensure the protection of the weak, whose position has deteriorated in the crisis of previous years, prove again to be at the forefront of our priorities. Amendments to the bill are also introduced to various Ministries, such as the Ministry of Culture on "Amendment and supplementing the provisions of Law 4481/2017 on collective management of intellectual property rights". Also, the Ministry of Environment and Energy for the Central Board of Environmental Licensing, Funds from the Green Fund as a contribution to LIFE programmes, as well as staffing and organograms of the management bodies of the protected areas. There's a setting for prolongation of the point where you've been working. We have an amendment from the Ministry of Finance of the Ministry of Finance for "Creditated Reimbursement of Reimbursable Taxes", as well as other arrangements for business parks, for the responsibility of ordinary members who entered the civil companies referred to in Article 270 of Law No 4072/12 before the law was passed, and for debts born before the law was passed, to strengthen the representation of sellers, producers and professionals in the Public Market Commissions and other provisions. In addition, there are measures to support the victims from the October earthquake in Zakynthos. As regards the first six parts of the bill, a set of provisions is introduced in Part I of the bill aimed at modernising the intellectual property system in Greece, with emphasis on industrial property and strengthening innovation. This is an essential reform in the area of intellectual property, with the aim of exploiting the country's intellectual capital, with regulations that have a strong development footprint, both through the development of a national intellectual property development policy and ensuring conditions of transparency and healthy competition, and through the promotion of a culture of cooperation and shared ideas between businesses, with the aim of promoting open innovation, strengthening social and solidarity and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Provisions are promoted aimed at strengthening the development of business parks and simplifying administrative procedures that acted as brakes in their organisation. Chambers and all the bodies in the committee have expressed their satisfaction with the regulations introduced, about the business parks which, they have said, were their long requests and have not been accepted by the previous governments. In a very positive way, all present bodies have seen dealing with the problem of the wide unregulated industrial structure in the Oinophilus region. With the cooperation of the Ministries of Economy and Development, the Environment and Energy, the Region of Central Greece, the Municipality of Tanagras, as well as the economic operators of the region, a strategy for the reorganisation and economic development of the region was developed, with the development of a business restructuring park in the industrial area and the implementation of an integrated spatial investment in the river basin. Part II covers a request from several operators and mainly municipalities, as it is set up within the CFO, a technical service. Part III deals with matters of responsibility of the General Secretariat of strategic and private investment. In this respect, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. The same incentive is given for investments included in the previous development law 3908/11. There are still significant incentives for attracting large-scale investments, but new services are added to the activity that can be developed by companies that create joint services within the same group. Within the framework of the policy of "Meto Greece - return Greece - Bridges for Cooperation and Knowledge", and with a view to addressing the phenomenon of brain drain, the Brain Drain, abroad, an institution of financial rewards is recommended. A network of support for entrepreneurship in local chambers is also set up, which aims to limit as far as possible or to eliminate the incomplete information of the business community on public initiatives developed for its benefit. Part IV updates and makes the existing legislation more effective concerning the exclusion from the public procurement of so-called ‘terrestrial’ companies and ensures the application of the timely list of ‘non-cooperative’ tax States. Problems and malfunctions of Law 4412/16 are being addressed to make it more operational. The reservation provided for in Law 4013/11 on the revenues of the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority is increased, as under Law 4412/16 this reservation has been excessively reduced, resulting in a decisive reduction in the revenues of the Authority and is now in trouble with the fulfilment of its operational needs. A series of provisions of the Secretariat-General for Trade and Consumer Protection shall be inserted in the next Part. Amendments Nos 4497/17 satisfy a number of requests made by operators and dealer federations concerning the organisation and operation of rural trade which have been accepted by their representatives. All the stakeholders were particularly pleased with the introduction of the provisions to solve the chronic problem of the operation of the Pan-Hellenic Lamia exhibition, which had been fully devalued because of the blatant mismanagement phenomena for many years. A development company is being established in the Municipality of Lamites, which will become the universal successor of the company. In this way, the report is being reopened, an important space is assigned to local society and its scope is simplified, in order to start producing revenues and to settle debts. The other amendments allow me to focus on one, for which I personally have been struggling for a long time, which solves major social problems, particularly in rural areas, many of the citizens who have been caught in solidarity and universal responsibility in civil companies under Article 270 of the Treaty. After the adoption of this law, 4072/2012. Such a case is in my area, in Skydra, in which hundreds of citizens, members of an urban corporation from 1993 to 2002, were enclaved, while at their entry to the company they knew that they were responsible only up to the amount of their corporate share, with the change in the responsibility of the ordinary members - who are not in the Board and have no administrative responsibility under Law 4072/2012 - were responsible for the company's obligations in each other and throughout. With the incoming amendment, which relates simply to members, for those who entered before 11 April 2012 - which was the date of the entry into force of Law 4072/2012 - and for debts born before the law, this injustice is restored and legal certainty is ensured. The obligations shall remain in full with the members of the Board and the managers at the present time. In conclusion, the draft law introduces a number of useful provisions that will help the economy and contribute to the country's development process. On this basis, we call on the parties in Parliament to lift any initial reservations, to confuse themselves, not to come against the universally expressed attitude of all the productive players in this piece of legislation and to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u77	Thank you Mr Ioannis Sifakis, SYRIZA rapporteur. We are going with the rapporteur of the New Democracy Mr Christos Dimas. Mr. Dimas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. All Greeks remember the slogans of SYRIZA with which he won the elections four years ago and still governs today, "We will abolish the memorials with a law and an article", "we will abolish HISFIA", "no house in the hands of a banker". You know, with these three slogans you won the election and you're still ruling today. Who will forget how many times you have called the slogan 'no house in the hands of a banker'? In a central election speech, Alexis Tsipras stressed: "We have a plan and we are committed to putting an end to this nightmare of the first house auctions", "no house in the hands of a banker with a SYRIZA government", "we have a plan, today is a slogan, from Monday it will be a state law". Finally, whether SYRIZA had a plan or not, I think the whole world saw it. The reality is, not only was there no plan, but you were either consciously lying to Greek citizens or there were dangerous delusions. I don't know which of the two is worse, cultivating consciously false hopes and expectations to Greek citizens or not to understand how key pillars of the economy work. In any case, you have never had the courage and elegance to tell the Greek citizens the truth, to tell the citizens that you have either systematically mocked them or had no contact with reality. But now we are going to the private debt issue, which is linked to the first residence amendment. I want to give you some information on the course of the national economy. Approximately EUR 85 billion are the debts of Greek citizens to banks, EUR 104.3 billion are the dues of private individuals to tax. And let me tell you at this point that 40% of the tax due by individuals has been created for your own days, for SYRIZA days. And there are another 34.3 billion euros in the outstanding debts of private individuals to the insurance funds. Therefore, the total private debt reaches EUR 224 billion. When we told you that you could not exaggerate everyone, you did not pay any attention to us. With the amendment you are bringing you to deal with only the part of the debt to the banks, i.e. the EUR 85 billion of the EUR 224 billion that is private debt, a subset of private debt alone. Interestingly, the Bank of Greece estimates that around 8.5 billion euros will be in the arrangement. The Association of Greek Banks estimates that it will be the 11 billion euros. You realise that from the EUR 224 billion that Greek citizens owe to the regulation, 11 billion will go into regulation, as calculated by the Banking Union. So, with your current regulation, even 5% of the private debt problem is not dealt with. That is why it would be very important, in addition to the arrangements you are bringing about for the banks, to bring public debts, i.e. tax and insurance funds. Unfortunately, on your own days Greek citizens' income has been drastically reduced. Features are the data published by IOBE and GSEW: 82% of households will not save one euro this year. 62% of consumers say they just get through. Nineteen days just lasts the monthly income for one in two households. However, we shall now proceed to the amendment itself. Firstly, the fact that you tabled the amendment to the House at midnight and we are discussing it the next day, without a thorough debate, is unacceptable. The subject has been well-known for years. Why did we have to wait so long to legislate on this? There's no answer. It should have been a detailed discussion with all the actors and submitted your proposal for a very long time ago, and you should also have completed the discussions with the European partners. Secondly, Mr Vice-President of the Government, I would like you to commit before the National Representation that this is a matter of final regulation. Is there any chance you could bring any further changes? Thirdly, I do not see any provision made for consistent borrowers. Unattainable omission! Are you planning on correcting it and there's some kind of reward for consistent borrowers or are we just punishing them? This issue should have been debated by the government for a long time with the banks - because it required the data from the banks - and agreed with them to reward the consistent borrowers who have, in times of crisis, been deprived of things in their lives and were in difficulty consistent with their credit obligations. And one is quite reasonable: you tabled yesterday, Mr Vice-President of the Government, an amendment from the Ministry of Finance, where you found 30 million euros for the banks. Question: Why don't you use some of this money to reward the consistent borrowers? Here, then, is the field of glorious glory! Fourthly, with the regulation you are bringing, you are not dealing with the question of strategic malpractices, which should normally be the main objective. On the contrary, you let them get away from a window. Obviously, the majority of citizens who seek or regulate are not strategic bad-payers, but our fellow citizens who wish, but are unable to fulfil their obligations, and we must give them an operational framework that will enable them to repay their debts. This separation, however, is absolutely necessary. And here again, you should work even more with the banks and the public services, so that we can see who has it, but it does not pay and who really needs support. Fifth question: It remains what will happen in the transitional phase between the old and the new protection frameworks and what will happen with the outstanding applications of the Katseli Act, which we have asked for from an electronic platform to be examined on the basis of the eligibility criteria laid down by the old first residence protection regime. Sixth question: Is the electronic platform ready, Mr Vice-President of the Government, to receive requests? I assume that on such an important issue, which has been well known for many years, you will have properly taken care of and already completed the electronic platform. Please tell me if the electronic platform is ready and when you think it will be put into operation for citizens. The New Democracy will vote in favour of this amendment, despite the fact that we do not think it is the desirable solution to the growth of private debt and it needs significant improvements. We shall vote for it because no citizen should be deprived of the opportunity to regulate his debts and of course to protect his principal residence. The reality is, you're too late, and as a result, you're losing valuable time for borrowers and banks, but also for the economy. You have promised over the years a legal framework that includes as many people as possible, but you are establishing in Parliament a framework whereby the number of citizens who can regulate their debts is drastically limited. I just want to remind you in all respects that in the days of the New Democracy the state has given full support to the first residence. It was a time when you at SYRIZA screamed "no house in the hands of a banker". [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Let's go to the bill now. Today we are discussing a bill without beginning, middle and end. This is demonstrated even by the reading of the title of the bill, which is at least misleading.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u79	Just quiet down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u80	I talked to the committees, specialists. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you are disturbed by what we are saying, but here we are saying the same thing, we are talking about data.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u82	I spoke specializing in committees. This is where I'm going to talk about just a few articles. I come to Article 9 on business parks: this is a regulation that moves in the right direction. However, data could have been much better. I would also like to point out one of the comments made on paragraph 6 and the procedure for the Consultation Committee to consider possible amendments to the operating regulation. How representativeness is guaranteed is an important issue. The proposal to participate 50.1% of the established companies we think is in the right direction and you must take it seriously. Also, the collection of 80% of the fees paid could under conditions not even pass through PPC. We as a New Democracy have tabled a specific proposal for business parks. We believe that business parks should act as permit and licence intermediaries. According to our own approach, there will be no need for separate permits for any business operating in a park. He'll only need permission from the park itself. This will enable us to combat bureaucracy and corruption and make it more attractive for businesses to set up such a organised reception. Mr Pitsorlas told the committee twice that he shares this view. It would be nice to see you adopt it in the bill. Article 23 changes the statute of the CCT so that the CCT can meet the housing needs of the entire Ministry and the supervised entities. I'm just going to say, objectively, that's not the purpose of the CTB. We are waiting for changes, as Mr Pittsirlas said, or we are not going to vote on it. With Article 26 you amend the provision for the selection of Heads of the SGP. In particular, you legislate, so that those who were formerly chiefs, but who are now no longer in office and who are normally in service, are paid as if they were chiefs. I would like Mr. Pittsorla to explain an explanation for Article 26. In Article 27 who can make payments to the Public Investment Programme: You are essentially telling us that it can be designated as account manager or rapporteur for the liquidation of anyone you want and there is no need for it to be from the responsible services for the payments of the Public Investment Programme. Here I really would like an answer. In this matter, all senses of logic shall be abolished. Your argument is subversive. You say that the unresponsible people of your choice must be responsible and not the institutions responsible. Mr Pitsirlas told us in the debate at the outset that this regulation was necessary because there was a great deal of workload. I would suggest that, in order to preserve public administration, you set certain objective criteria for the required formal qualifications that a civil servant should have in order to make payments to the Public Investment Programme and not leave it in general, open to all public administration. It's the least you can do. Article 29: Dismiss the publication of decisions to set up the collective bodies of the investment project evaluation committees, the Committees to examine objections, the investment control bodies, the Registries and Procedures Management Committee and the Advisory Committees. I would ask you, in order to avoid misunderstandings that you are doing this to serve "days", to change the arrangement by clarifying that it is enough to publish in the Transmission of all the above decisions. If you do not include it in the law, then it is expected that you will at least be charged with opaque procedures. Therefore, go ahead with a legislative improvement where you will replace "no publication is required" with "sufficient publication in Transmission". That is what you say in the explanatory statement. So do it so that there is no margin for misinterpretation of the intention of the legislator. He said Mr. Pitsorlas would change it. We expect to see it in practice. Article 43 relates to amendments to the Development Act 4399, adopted in June 2016 by the present Government. A law that you have amended countless times - we have lost count - but the result does not change. Neither a euro in the real economy by the Tsipras - Kammenos Government's development law. Thirty-six months have passed, and the results are disappointing. Article 40. I understand that paragraph 1 in Article 40 can be accepted because it updates the list of tax havens where offshore companies wishing to claim public works are prohibited. What is really unexplained is paragraph 2 and the fact that this provision gives partial retroactive effect. Even the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority notes that the second paragraph of the arrangement in question, which gives rise to that provision of retroactive effect, making it applicable to ongoing procedures, since economic tenders have not been opened at the time of the entry into force of this Law, may be verified on the basis of the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination to the extent that it is a retrospective amendment to the terms of the procedure concerned, as it has pre-empted the law, depending on the stage in which the procedure is in place, it is likely that the economic operators have already deprived their ability to participate in it. In other words, you cannot change the proclamation of an ex post tender. There are questions of unfair competition, as there may have been companies that did not participate in those tenders, as they considered that their seat is a condition of exclusion, but then find a holiday after which the deadline for submitting the files has expired, that the relevant law has changed. He said again, Mr. Pittsorlas, that paragraph 2 would withdraw it. If she doesn't, we won't vote for her. If she withdraws, we shall vote on Rule 40. Article 54 is a very great service to the Secretary-General for Strategic and Private Investments. They shall be seconded by staff by way of derogation from any general or special provision, without requiring a decision or assent from competent bodies. Explain to us, Minister - I have asked several times for this - why this very great service is being done. Article 55 is supposed to deal with Brain Drain. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance. Three minutes. Article 55 is a genome. Sometimes it's wondering. You are coming with an article and without any transparency, promise 3 million euros a year in competition awards with the aim of restoring Brain Drain. I'm sorry, but the way you're trying to display activity in this part has no contact with reality. He won't bring any Greeks back to Greece. It will not offer a substantial result. It's an article providing professors for public relations between the Minister in question. Treatment of brain leaking is a very serious case to treat it in a fragmented way. In conclusion, with regard to yesterday's amendments, we will not support them in principle. The way you legislate is unacceptable. You are bringing whole bills in the form of the amendment at the last minute, so that there is no debate on the amendments at all. And there is, of course, no hearing of the bodies. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the definition of the degradation of Parliament. At least you used to say that you had to go to urgent procedures because there was the memorandum. Now you claim to be out of the memos. Of course, Mr Vice-President, if you look at the explanatory statement to today's bill on page 36 at Article 45, you will see that almost all of the Ministerial Council, including the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, are signing the explanatory statement and agree that the country has not come out of the memorandum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr Christos Dimas, rapporteur of the New Democracy. We're on our way to special speakers. The first is Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, a special speaker of the Democratic Partnership, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing many bills together today. But, in our view, the most important provision concerning thousands, tens of thousands, and perhaps hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens is, as we call it, the provision not to protect the first home. There are specific issues here, which are both fundamental and ideological. This provision shall be adopted and supported together by the Government, the Banking Union and the New Democracy. To start with, I will say and submit to those who say that there is no other proposal that we have tabled in this House - our parliamentary group - and also concerns the protection of first residence. So, for those on the left - syria - or right-wing ones, that's not what this is about. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in a bill - and if I add a little bit to the European Parliament - you are making a terrible blow to the complexion, to the owners and owners! You will allow me not to start with the bill, but to start with the European Parliament. Hot doc post: 'Panama papers - Known persons, unknown wealth.' Read - it says - about the family's relationships with the network of offshore. It was written in your papers. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] ‘Left.gr’, the party body of SYRIZA, writes: ‘Socrates Kokalis Panama Papers’. I'm filing it. Ladies and gentlemen, businessmen are Greek citizens and can be candidates with whoever they want. But do you blame them for being in Panama Papers today on your vote? What's "love" that? Were you lying then or are you lying? Did you hit the complication then or now? Because I am learning, ladies and gentlemen, that you have some gaps in your vote, I am tabling the board of the Greek Banking Union to find other people. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But now we're going to this bill. The bill brought it in at the last minute, and you didn't want the agencies to come, and the New Democracy consented. At our request, the institutions came and, apart from the Greek Banking Union, all the others denounced the bill. Let's say a few things. At the same time, I would like to put forward 20 positions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let us see in three examples - as the President of the Bar Association said yesterday - who, Mr SYRIZA and the New Democracy, will regulate. The weak, the conscientious or the rich? Let's go hear the examples: Unemployed debtor with zero income, with a value of EUR 30 000, with no other assets, movable or immovable property, with a debt of EUR 131 000, not regulated. He's really the rich man! We are now going to the weak of the government: a debtor married to EUR 21,000, with a principal home value of EUR 250,000 and a commercial value of EUR 500,000, with a luxurious vehicle of EUR 80,000, with a debt of EUR 516,129 to four different credit institutions, under regulation, gentlemen of SYRIZA and the New Democracy. That's the weak one! Third example: a single debtor, with an income of EUR 12,551, 1,045 per month, with a principal residence of EUR 30 000, with no other assets, with a debt of EUR 50 000, excluding regulation, ladies and gentlemen. And because Mr. Vice-President said that they represent the Greek people in the negotiation with the banks and because you made comments to Mr. Dimas then why you were fighting for Kokkalis, Marinakis, for all of this, who is what and all the rest of it, and you told him that he represents BSE and the banks, and you vote together, you wrote it with the banks, the bankers told you! And to do this to them - which in 2009 taxed the banks PASOK - you come today and give them two amendments to EUR 300 million back! And since you do not like it, I give you an official post by Mr. Koukakis, where he writes: "With two amendments to the same bill, the government makes it easier to make more than 1 billion euros available to banks to improve bank interest-rate income and will cause a burden to the state budget." I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You're gentlemen, a government that adopts anything they ask for for for a few days of power! But let's see something, 'cause you're causing sometimes. I have heard many fellow SYRIZA Members speak in good words and say that "law Katseli" protected the weakest. This is the PASOK law, Law No.3869/2010. I would like to explain something to you to understand, and I say it to the New Democracy: If some of you have any position in a ministry, no president, no bank, they do not take the bills, principles and values with him. You may like this, make him a president in a bank, and then think he gets the bill. You voted against this bill, gentlemen. You voted against it and you are hypocrites to come today and speak without asking for an apology! But let's actually see if this proposal creates conditions. I won't get into the procedural matters if they build the management platform quickly or not. Who runs the management platform? The banks. Is there a government representative? Nobody. You're talking about 250,000 euros. But don't you read underneath that it concerns creditors up to EUR 130,000 and that it includes interest? Are there any procedures - have the borrowers' association, the Bar Association, all of them - for exterior fines so that it does not allow them to enter this procedure? Do you exclude those who were talking to them about the Swiss franc? Where are you, ladies and gentlemen, the questions you have asked, all you have said to them today, at the present rate? And they're rich? Does the proposal you submitted to the banking institution have a committee to decide on the future? None. Banks decide for everything, without any control. You delivered it all, without any control, by giving them those gifts that we taxed in 2009. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote against this provision, because it is neither a provision nor a provision for the consistent ones nor for the weak ones, nor will it give preconditions for the banks to strengthen and grant new business loans. It just ensures that the bank boards remain a little longer. And I am sorry that the New Democracy supports this provision. It is a provision that they themselves say that it does not solve the problems. And if they're nervous about whether these people will stay unregulated, I suggest our own proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, the regulation you bring excludes seven to eight out of ten. This arrangement will simply not be implemented by you, because you will be gone. But since there are people willing to vote, they will find her in front of them. As far as the bill and amendments are concerned, Minister, we have made a proposal in a bill which has several positive provisions to vote on on on one condition. I appreciate that if Mr. Pittsorlas meant it, you'd do it today. There is a provision for offshore companies, a photographic layout. Why did I say that? I'm saying it very clearly. The "photographic" layout allows retrospectiveness to some companies. I mean, they filed some companies in a contest while they didn't have the right. They are now coming, on the basis of the Community directive, and these countries are coming in. But at this particular moment how did these companies know and come in and not excluded? Therefore, retrospectiveness creates a "photographic" layout problem. We say that if this provision is withdrawn, we will support all these provisions which are positive in that direction. We put two issues on the table. As far as I am concerned, in the change you have made, we believe that it cannot pay everyone and everything. That's not the way it works. For articles on business parks we have made specific proposals on how to work better, in what ways can they help the business world. As far as OBI is concerned, Article 3 is concerned with ownership, we say that the same rules applicable to the Intellectual Property Office of the European Union cannot apply, but we must make a patent of our own. We believe that the provision of Articles 4-7 which gives a legal person private law and public authority, i.e. taking judicial decisions, cannot be done. In our view, you have allergies to judicial control and you are trying to overcome everything through the administrative boards you define. As far as the rest are concerned, we have made a number of proposals. We want to see the final text. As far as the amendments are concerned, we have given our views yesterday. Mr Koutsoukos will also speak of the two amendments concerning the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Mr. Ioannis Sahinides, special speaker from the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vice-President, Minister, are you sure you want to sit down and not leave, as you did yesterday in committee to avoid answering? Because if you sit down, you will reasonably have to answer to any questions I have put to the committees. Business parks. You guys don't do better than that, I say, with theme parks? At least you could also give Greek citizens some jobs. Is it true, Mr Vice-President, Minister, that these business parks, as I asked, and my questions were not answered in committee, are they clearly related to the spatial planning section? As I said, the only region in Greece that has decided to implement this issue is the Region of Central Macedonia, with all that it entails. It has nothing to do with the draft law we are discussing with your ministry. It's called Economy and Development. Everything you bring is undevelopmental. The point is that you obligate businesses that have been there for tens of years, decades, to be relocated. This is also the case in the county from which I come, because it is located in central Macedonia. I mentioned it to the committees. It is about five thousand businesses and workers. We're talking about a mandatory relocation. It has been passed and implemented by the Regional Director of Central Macedonia, Djitzkosta, who is of course the New Democracy. But it has excluded some businesses from this relocation. One of the companies that has excluded - and I mentioned it in committee - is the "ELLENIC PETPEPELLAIA", for which, in a recent finding, it is said to be the one who stinks and lives in western Thessaloniki. Everyone thought it was from tanning and biological cleansing. There is a conclusion that blames the responsibilities on the ELPEs. And you know what they decided? To move a number of dozens of metres of ELPE waste. The measurement made in "ELPE" by "ELPE" is not made in the figs, but in some kilometres within the urban fabric of Evros and Cordelios. It's like saying you want to measure the pollution in a car and instead of putting the machine in the exhaust, sit 10 meters away to make the measurement. But what has then been done is that other high-purpose companies have also been excluded from the regional authority. All this has a bad impact on the working people and not just on the people. They also have bad consequences for the businesses I mentioned. You referred to the committee, Mr Vice-President and Mr Minister, in the financial instruments. I have asked whether these financial instruments will work as a lever of pressure, so that there will be so-called relocation of businesses. As far as I know, those undertakings that are not relocated will not have access to subsidised programmes. There is an example I mentioned. A large canning industry, which has recently invested to expand its business, has frozen its investment, because if it is put forward, it will not be able to participate in subsidised projects. There was even mention yesterday by a Member of the Co-population Committee about the Agricultural Bank of Greece, about how good it was and how helpful it was. In fact, no one disputes that the Agricultural Bank was serving farmers and farmers. This is what you have done. Because if you remember well, when the Agricultural Bank made no mention of loans from the parties to the New Democracy and the PASOK, 10 days later it was sold. You promised - your members, not you personally - that you would do a committee of inquiry on this matter. In fact, you mentioned yesterday, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, on agricultural loans and you referred to a European Development Bank. I asked if it was the European Development and Reconstruction Bank. Because if we are talking about this bank we are talking about a bank which does not pay taxes to Greece, nor can anyone claim, in the event of failure to comply with the contract with that bank, its legality. It's in the unavoidable. You have therefore referred to crop loans. These agricultural loans - as I told you yesterday in the committee where you were absent when I was speaking - which the Agricultural Bank was helping to rent agricultural parcels, supply of oil for agricultural work, purchase of seeds, medicines, plants, fertilizers, maintenance of agricultural machinery, payment of wages, reimbursement of water, so-called TWGs, and the current that they were burning for bushes. The only way that there can be growth in the primary sector is the Golden Dawn programme. You must immediately reduce income taxes on farmers and farmers, it is necessary to reduce VAT directly on farms, to reduce their insurance contributions, to reintroduce duty-free oil to farmers and farmers, to reduce electricity prices to agricultural and livestock establishments, to protect the designation of origin of all products produced by farmers and farmers, to promote these agricultural and livestock products in the European Union and third countries, to immediately pay agricultural products from traders, as is the case with other professional sectors. Anyone who is free to pay cash and buys and the dealer to take and pay the money to the farmer after a few months. Subsidies of small family vertical production units for agricultural and livestock products and finally - the flag we have as Golden Dawn - immediately deletion of all agricultural and livestock debts. They referred yesterday to the committee, as well today, all the previous ones to the strategic poor payers. You're kidding us, of course! You cannot talk about strategic mispaids. I will recall what the President of the New Democracy said on January 10, 2019, before members of the board of directors of the Hellenic Banking Union. He said: 'Find strategic mispaids'. And I'm just saying it's a joke, there's no way. Who's to find? New Democracy and PASOK? Who are the strategic malpractices? Yesterday we tabled the amendment with a general number of 2057 and a specialist 52, and in the first second reading committee, we were all killed and beaten that we should call on the bodies that we have actually called on. However, the point is that the questions addressed to them were only to the Banks Union and to the Bank of Greece. There was not a single rapporteur or speaker who asked the borrowers' representative a question. I asked the spokesman if he represented all the borrowers, because every night, any channel and open up, whether large or regional or state, in the panels you see a borrower's representative. It is probably about different borrowers, because one cannot represent all borrowers. There are those who have entered into foreign currency loans, borrowers, who have the economic potential to enter into the regulation you are bringing. However, the point is that no one has dealt with the committee with those who are unable to enter the regulation, so they automatically have no protection for their first residence. Eligibility criteria: We asked the institutions what the percentage, from the eligibility criteria, can be set up. Before the committee begins, I saw you, Mr Vice-President, Minister, ask the bank representative about the percentage of those who are joining, which is obviously something you should know, as this is about your ministry. In fact, he said to you a large proportion, 70%, but this was unsettled by the representative of the Bank of Greece and said that it is a very small percentage, with a 10% optimism, because out of the 85 billion loans which are not served, a 10% will be able to join, that is, 8.5 billion of the 85 billion. I asked the representatives of the banks and, of course, I did not get a reply - they answered all of you, who have them well with them - if they represent specific economic interests. I told them that the assets of the banks, i.e. essentially the houses of the bankers - which the Greek people have been rescued on several occasions with the memoranda you have imposed on them through the refinancing of the banks, without of course ever asking the Greek people for this, if they want to rescue private businesses, i.e. banks - now come the rescued, those rescued by the Greek people, that is, banks, to decide whether or not their benefactors' homes should be seized. This shows the gratitude of the banks to those who saved their own assets. So we had the agencies. It is good to know and the rest of the House what the questions have been asked. SYRIZA Rapporteur: no question. Rapporteur: New Democracy: questions only to bank representatives and lawyers. MEP: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That's weird. He did exactly what his party did in the examination of the big-government loans, where they did absolutely not ask any questions. Just yesterday he didn't attend. Change Movement: Questions only to bankers again. Today they have been caught by the sensitivity of the House, making reference to those who do not cover them. There was indeed a position by a SYRIZA MEP yesterday who said it was about the large part of the borrowers. The large part of the borrowers' share is totally in agreement that it should be protected. However, the point is that the large part of the borrowers has to do with the small part of the debt. What are you doing as SYRIZA, as the left with the large debt, which few have it? That's very basic, that's what we're interested in. We agree that 100% of the first residence should be protected. I shall now mention the reasons why we will vote against Amendment No 2057/52: First of all, it excludes multiples. There is only one provision for those with up to three children - Article 1(1)(d). Secondly, the value of the protected principal residence at the time of the application does not exceed EUR 175,000 - Article 1(1)(c). The limits set here, on the value of the first residence and the value of the rest of the property, together with individual and family income, are designed to exclude as many borrowers as possible. Thirdly, in particular the ceiling of 130,000 euros for outstanding capital is a mockery. The majority of the housing loans granted go far beyond this amount. Fourthly, this amendment sets the limits in such a way as to put a gravel on those who were hoping that there is a case of protection of the first place. Fifthly, I will refer you to page 1 of the amendment, which refers first. ‘Blue debtors may protect their main residence from liquidation by means of the provision in Article 9(2) of Law 3869/2010. However, that provision shall apply only to applications made up to 28 February 2019. 'The time-limited power...' - here is the whole thing - 'this provision is justified by the fact that it reflects an economic situation which has already begun to change. It is therefore necessary to review the main residence protection framework in the light of the current economic circumstances.’ So, what do you say exactly and people don't understand? What's the change and we didn't understand it? The development, as you say, has come since August and there should be a review, why have the data changed? Has unemployment been reduced? Have investors come and do not know these Greek people? And I continue on page 2, again in the explanatory memorandum on the principle, which states that natural persons, irrespective of their bankruptcy or inability, may be included in the new framework, since - as long as - this 'if' fulfils specific income and assets criteria. Refers to page 4 of the explanatory statement and to Article 1 ‘in order for the debtor to be subject to the imported framework to be subject to at least one responsibility for regulation, in accordance with the conditions set out in the following paragraphs’. In other words, this amendment which should actually come as a draft law alone tells us that in the seventeen articles of this amendment there is absolutely no provision for those who are rejected by regulation because they do not fulfil the conditions, but neither for those - which is the great part of the Greek people - who are unable to enter and apply, because they have left, from your own political choices, unemployed or have left abroad. Therefore, do not claim that this amendment is about protecting first residence. You have acted not "no house in the hands of a banker", but "no house in the hands of a owner". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. We proceed with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasio Bardalis for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. It doesn't surprise us that Golden Dawn uses gelbeat methods. Besides, these fascists sing every day. Not only was the JRC not missing from the committee's meeting, but it did not miss all the committee's meetings, as others did, including the previous speaker. Besides, the Minutes are available to everyone and everyone can see them. However, you should know that the JRC does not need to listen to the bankers about red loans, what they think, and we do not of course feel the need to ask them questions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill which actually comes to plenary at the request of industrialists and entrepreneurs. It implements their own requirements. After all, they themselves admit it and fail to thank the government that has responded to the demands they have made for a long time. What does the bill do to improve the investment climate, as you say, and attract investment? Firstly, it incorporates a European Union directive protecting commercial secrecy, the exploitation of patents, because it considers them industrial property, the protection of know-how, business information and the setting up of technology joint ventures. We are talking about all these issues, a crucial issue, about the business groups, because in the context of increased competition it is of enormous importance who controls the flow of scientific knowledge, the ways and methods of exploiting new scientific knowledge in the production, inventive activity and the development of standards in industry. Because, through this audit, they substantiate scientific research and hence the scientific potential of the objective of capital, which is no more than to attenuate its profits and ensure its authority. It is, however, important to see briefly the social consequences of subjecting scientific research and knowledge to the objectives of this chapter. Today that we are talking about thousands of inventions are guaranteed as patents, as property of business groups and not entering production because they have no profit, inventions that if they are designed, quickly and unreservedly will solve a series of social needs. A characteristic example is the medicine. Priorities for the production and research of the medicinal product are established on the basis of the profit and market shares of the competing groups active in the industry concerned. And while the profits of the pharmaceutical industries are huge, on the other hand, millions of people are still suffering, because medicine and health themselves are now a commodity. At the same time, with the restrictions on the diffusion of technology, scientific knowledge is used to limit the life of products, artificial ageing, and their incorporation quickly. Finally, whatever production sector and the scientific sector, we can identify the great culprit that prevents us from exploiting for the benefit of the needs of society the great potential created by the work of the workers, the potential of the development of science and technology. The great culprit is no more than the action of the capital, with a view to the maximum profit rate. We are therefore not at risk from new technology, but we are at risk of its capitalist exploitation. Trade secrets, the uniform functioning of the internal market, research and innovation of the European Union, the protection of industrial ownership of business information is a need for capital. These needs are to be met by the current government, as is the previous ones in SYRIZA. Secondly, the issue raised by this bill. With changes to the development law and other provisions, the government continues its facilities and gifts to entrepreneurs, continuing to settle outstanding outstandings in favour of capital, in the name of the fair development of the memorandum, by bleeding the people to feed capitalist profitability. What is it doing briefly with these arrangements? A company to be subject, from now on, to large-scale investments and to enjoy tax exemptions and subsidies should be the total cost of investment of 15 million from 20 million up to now. Their tax exemption from five million, that was, 7 million. In fact, in order to ensure tax exemptions, it is sufficient to implement 50% of the cost of the investment project - not all, 50%. They are exempted from the preliminary environmental assessment and evaluation process logistics companies. The same undertakings are exempted from the payment of a capital gains tax resulting from the divestment of their real estate and other establishments, as are the companies relocated to the commercial parks. Facilities are given for the development of business parks. You are even reducing the parking spaces by 50% provided for in today's legislation, even for establishments, obviously to be used for other purposes in favour of business groups. You will be able to make use of the aid granted in the form of tax exemption at least at a shorter time, thus reducing it from five to three years, that is to say, to take all the tax exemption over three years. You are dealing with issues relating to earlier investment projects by other governments, even - from 1998, 2001 and 2004. You are also giving them other opportunities with deadline extensions, a reduction in the economic and physical scope of their investment projects. Of all this one understands what the "progressive alliance of SYRIZA" is. It is an alliance with business groups, the European Union and NATO. You demonstrate on a daily basis how you are on the same front as the New Democracy, which is why you are also voting for legislation on today and today and what other bills come that give gifts and facilities to business groups. That is why the people must turn their back on the European Union's governments and parties, decisively strengthening the JRC everywhere. And you're not just confined to them. You create a stable and simple system for licensing intragroup services. To attract such businesses to Greece, among the other advantages - see what is mentioned in the explanatory statement - you are advertising the relatively low wage costs. Legislate the possibility of setting up financial intermediaries with funding from the Public Investment Programme and involving individuals. You are building another financial instrument for entrepreneurs, which aims to tackle the difficulty of financing investment projects from the banks due to their lack of liquidity. For the winefruits and Ashos - and we have said it in committee - the establishment and operation of the "Security and Development" business park proves that the service of the profitability of business groups, the production of incomplete wealth stands next to the downgraded health and quality of life of those producing it. An anonymous company with majority shareholders is set up for the industrialists themselves, i.e. they will approve the licences, the operating conditions of extensions, and possibly the condition of access to the zone. There is no attempt to detect what is still polluting today. The industrialists, instead of being called upon to pay, will even be financed with fat money from workers' tax to make them all come out of oil. Today, it is necessary that the workers and the people of the region fight to take all necessary measures to protect the health and safety of workers and people in the region. Finally, you are giving the Lamia report an area of 167 acres of products to a public limited company set up for the development of a number of business activities. You are, however, burdening the previous administrations' debts on the citizens' backs without any responsibilities being attributed to them until now. What needs to be done is to give the area to the Lamites Municipality with the exclusion of any business and to settle any legal outstandings that exist, to exploit as a centre for the promotion and production of the site in the expansion of production capacities and to exploit them to the benefit of the people without intermediaries, business and monopolies of the area, to transform the space of the exhibition into a park of leisure culture and sport. And I now come to the amendment on red loans in the time that I have left. The government, as she has told us, is proud that with this legislative initiative the poor will save their first residence. What's the truth? The SYRIZA Government's amendment is another link in a chain of government regulations to the detriment of highly indebted people's households. Along with the banking groups, they even replace this minimum judicial protection of the Katseli Act for the highly indebted people's households who, anyway, did not offer substantial and generalised primary protection, putting even worse conditions for this protection. Government and banks blackmail overcompensated households and blackmail them is simple: Or you go into regulation and pay the instalments or you lose your home. So the SYRIZA's new plan in a more effective way than that of Katseli is aimed at obliging borrowers to pay. That's their target. Increase extortion and threats to become 'consistent' in the service of their loan. You are also undertaking to carry out dirty work here as regards freedom of banks from a large part of the red loans in order to find warm money to finance viable businesses and business groups. In our opinion, this is a compromise between the government, banks and institutions - the European Central Bank, the Commission, the International Monetary Fund, which shows that enhanced supervision is here, lives and reigns. Instead of improving the minimum conditions for any protection of the people's housing you are making them even worse. You put more cutters, you limit the time of integration and protection, you take down the income protection criteria. For example, in the case of two working spouses, banks may auction if their salaries exceed an average of EUR 750, even if this household fulfils all the other conditions for joining the arrangement. It should be noted that all criteria must be met at the same time. For example, if one has the first residence and a house in the village left by his father and a five - acre field goes beyond the property criteria you put, that is, a limit of up to 80,000 euros, and he will also be thrown out of regulation. You grant state subsidies to banks, a measure that the government provokes as a prologue, and in reality it indirectly makes it easier for banks to put their housing requirements on hold. The Government has adopted the main argument of the banks for the treatment of battered or ‘strategic malpractices’ in order to justify the lifting of the remaining legal protection. You certainly do not mean the real battlings, i.e. the large business groups responsible for the large volume of red loans, but you photograph the large mass of the populace households who were forced into bank lending to meet the housing and consumer needs, but have been beaten by the crisis, unemployment, anti-grass measures, wage cuts and heavy taxation you have imposed on them. This is the taste, in short, of the next memorial day you advertise for thousands of households. That is why workers must not be reassured, but to strengthen solidarity and fight against auctions, to confiscations, to put the real cause behind the capital strategy, which the government and other opposition parties are serving. The JRC has tabled an amendment which fundamentally makes sense in the need to take immediate measures to relieve the people's borrowers from overcharge, providing for the drastic reduction in the debts of the people's families to banks with a write-off of interest and a substantial cut in the debt of the people's households, and we call on the government and other parties to take a stand on this amendment. Under a slogan "no house in the banker's hands" we call on the employees to prevent the 100 thousand and over auctions that the government and the banks have budgeted for the next three years. The anti-Auction Front is not closing with the end of the Katseli Act, but is now opening for good. We as a JRC in principle will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios Bardalis, special speaker of the JRC. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor, a special speaker from the Central Association, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate on the draft law on the committee responsible, it is clear that the majority of the opposition has made a great deal of effort to assess the provisions of a little more positive, since some problems that perpetuate any solutions you currently bring as a government have been considered to be important. Nevertheless, there are too many mistakes and many problematic points, such as we start with the following: the draft law includes arrangements for thirty-four different and regardless of each other issues of ruffles and services. And I will start with Article 1 and the 943 Directive where it should have been incorporated into Greek legislation for nine months and none of the government has dealt with it as a deliberate and unacceptable delay. No reflection, but that's why you're used to us. With Article 2, the state's giantisation is really going on, since another rather unjust public body, that of the National Council of Intellectual Property with administrative support, and everything else. With regard to the staff of the IGC and the existing discrimination against officials, who are not engineers in specialty, the Government is indeed unjustly insisting on holding an inflexible attitude. This is true even though the representative of the employees in the TEI and during the hearing of the bodies told the Commission that this problem was already known by the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, when he had met with them. I would also remind you that the Minister responsible, Mr Giannakides, had promised two months ago before the staff of the IGC that he would bring legislation on the lifting of injustices in February, which has not been done. Ultimately, there is not even a need for a financial area, since the remuneration of the staff of the IGC are not borne by the State budget, but is paid through the technical assistance of the ESDP, with little co-financing. So, at the same time, Minister, instead of favouring these officials and lifting this inequality, which has a zero cost, with Article 57 being really granted to all officials of the Ministry of Economy and Development, a total of EUR 3.85 million per annum. We are therefore waiting, even today, for the ministerial reasons to be observed and for justice to be restored. Those provided for in Article 27 shall institutionalise opacity or corruption. It is unacceptable, on the pretext of the workload, to be placed as account managers or as clearing rapporteurs for the payments of the Public Investment Programme to unrelated employees, other than the agency responsible for paying, by cultivating a ground for new party structures in the administration. Let's go to article 42 for the so-called Golden Visa. There is a serious problem with the non-quality control of applicants for residence permits, which is described in detail in the European Commission's report to the European Parliament 23-1-2019. It says in particular that valid residence permits issued by Member States have a more general impact, because they give the third-country national a free journey to the Schengen area for ninety days, within any hundred and eighty days. It is therefore necessary for all security checks to be carried out, which is not the case in our country, where the SYRIZA Government has built a normal and real case and is now issuing permits at the rate of machine guns. It is characteristic that, while in 2014 eighty-eighty eighty-eighty permits had been granted, by November 2018, had been launched to nine thousand seven hundred fifty-six, that is an increase of 1100% more. On this list, seeing the countries of origin of licensed persons, China is long running through with five thousand three hundred sixty-seven. You'll tell me, what's wrong with being Chinese any investors want to come to our country? Do we want you to explain how this is going to happen, how to produce in the first place, when China is under capital control and the export of more than EUR 50,000 is forbidden? So, what investors are we talking about right now? Apart from this, according to KYA 68019/2015, which updated the required documents, SYRIZA Government chose not to require that: a statement "possibly", a copy of the applicant's penal register and not even to oblige him to prove that he resides in our country after receiving the licence, only for one day and that is to resubmit the request for its renewal. The only check we really wish at least has taken place is the three criteria for information systems in the European Union, namely Schengen, the so-called SIS, visas for visas and fingerprints via EURODAC. In fact, the government must finally be serious and must stop this logic of respect for national security and uncontrollably grant any residence permits. The only way out for someone to change is that of what I said above. It is even better to ensure that the only current criterion of the law, i.e. the so-called vague wording that you have 'investment that has a positive impact on the national development of the economy', is to acquire concrete forms, such as investment in an economically disadvantaged area or job creation. As far as Articles 28-39 and the regulations on private investment are concerned, everyone in that country has long been aware that private investment is difficult to achieve as long as that government is in power. And that is not because there are no investment opportunities, the opposite, but because small, medium or even large groups of private investors do not tolerate the way they deal with them and, above all, the criminalisation of the business and the other ideological nipples of the SYRIZA and there are too many transient examples in this regard. With Article 53 you continue to raise the huge state, since you recommend seventeen new improper positions of scientific staff to the Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts, which could well be covered by external recruitment, while there are thousands of officials left untapped to the public. Article 54 is, in fact, another ruffle of the government, a ruptured provision. The General Secretariat of Strategic and Private Investments will now be able to obtain an unlimited number of employees, and even by way of derogation from any other provision, without asking anyone, let alone in the face of elections. In Article 55, the official proposal of the SYRIZA Government to deal with Brain Drain, we are really wondering how for four years you have been ignoring all these children who have emigrated abroad for studies and work and are actually trying to save the situation by giving them aspirins. Open universities, upgraded studies with modern programs, non-criminalization of excellence, access to the labour market without injustices, lower taxation for young scientists. These are the important things that are needed to stop the brain leaking phenomenon and certainly not the controversial prizes that come from your side and the bonuses you propose. In fact, there is also one - in introductory terms - a 'problem' prediction that it may be granted not only to citizens of the European Union but also to third countries. Articles 58 to 66 remind us of another example of the complete depreciation and mismanagement of the public body, the Pan-Hellenic Lamia Report. They even prove the predicament of legislating, since the property of 167 acres granted free of charge by the Greek State for thirty years, very simply does not belong to the Greek State since 1976, as the Chamber of Fthiotis informs us. It is also unacceptable to table seven unrelated amendments, and I will only comment on the eighth of my time in which I have left, on red loans. What is envisaged once again proves that the government is always making threats and at the end you are retreating. You have already admitted it, Mr Minister, that it is a result of compromise and retreat. Each government's lionism can only do badly in our economy, as it was demonstrated by the Euroworking Group last Monday, for a temporary return of EUR 970 million from the central bank's profits on Greek bonds. This is because, from the first maximalist leaks of the government, it was supposed to be with the draft law you will bring and the amendment, it would be a result of tough negotiation and it would cover the entire population, and you have managed to reach the proposals of the lenders, which are even worse than the previous ones you were willing to bring. It is too low the limits you have set for the beneficiaries. You have left them for four months uncovered because on 28 February the former regime expired. At the moment, March is already ending. So there are four weeks that the borrowers' houses are uncovered. In fact, the period you have set is until the end of the year. They've only been covered for eight months. And not only that, we expect - as has been announced, there is some information - that seven ministerial decisions will be adopted. But knowing the speed with which you legislate, we can say comfortably and appreciate that helpless borrowers will have to wait much longer. And we're going a little to some technical features. You mentioned, Minister, that we can easily identify the strategic poor payers who, based on the estimates - as you said in the committees - are about one out of four. So we could assume it's about two out of ten. Right? With the provision you bring, leave out six out of ten. We therefore have a four-seven-seven gap, which is neither strategic bad-payers, i.e. batters, nor need a second chance. What are we going to do with them? Have you anticipated something? We agree with you that strategic malpractices must be dealt with. However, we must also reward the well-paid, but also have a second chance for those people who really can't afford to repay their loans at the moment. And you don't have an answer about what's going to happen to them. There is an unresolved situation about what is going on with the Swiss franc. I hope you do not hide in the cloak of the excuses of banks and employees, who say "we informed them and they took their risk". You know, however, that this is not the reality. And I would like you to think seriously about the proposal that we have made as a Centro Association, which says - and is, I think, reasonable - that if anyone has paid up a third of their debt, that is, a very large proportion of the sum due, they can be treated favourably and can be included within the framework of the people who can have a second chance. With the provision and amendment you have brought, many of them are left out, and there are people who have paid less and at the end of the day may also be favoured. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] We also think that - and I conclude with this, Mr President - we should even see - the second home 'protection' if the sum of the objective values does not exceed 200,000. It is not a great deal of money to favour some people who may have a small home and live in Athens and have a small countryside somewhere in the province, as long as all the objective value of course does not exceed EUR 200,000. The JRC - and I will close with it - has also said that it has made an amendment. I have one question: Do you consider the family to be popular with an annual family income of 40,000 euros? Those who, in other words, have 10,000 euros and 15 000 euros income, what is it? Aren't they people's families? The 40,000 is the limit of the people's family? I don't think there's a lot of families with 40,000. It should be low for the people's family, so it can be protected. We will vote'residents' in principle,'residents' as a whole, and we will reasonably vote in favour of the amendment, even though it is incomplete. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, since they have previously participated in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the institution of the Parliament, twenty-four students and students as well as two educational attendants from the 1st Alimos High School. Likewise, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall, twenty-seven students and students and three teachers attending the Antimachia Kos elementary School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Economy and Development and Vice-President of the Government, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, speaks for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Vice President, because we're going to interrupt, would it be wise to talk to you later so we can hear you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u93	That's why I'm talking now, because the aftermath is a little unclear. I'm so sorry. I'll try to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u94	The problem is not to be brief. It's a lack of dialogue if we interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u95	At least I'll come back. I have heard the parties' rapporteurs. I have heard their general positions, which are well known. I have heard some comments, some of which could be discussed. I think, however, that we should make use of the possibilities that this Parliament gives us. In other words, the committees are offering specific questions which can be seen, studied and verified. Here today, we are doing more of a recapitulation. Of course, this also requires a quality of dialogue, which we must pursue. For example, yesterday we had an exhaustive debate on the first residence in the committee with the presence of actors. There have been three figures from Mrs Palagakis, which have not been called into question. The regulation we are examining covers about a hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries. This corresponds to about 70% of borrowers and is a sum of 11 billion, which, according to the Bank of Greece, is a little less. These are facts, they're numbers. It's either like this or it's not. If you look at speeches here, you will see that the whole opposite is said, for example, 70% stays out of place, etc. I think that with the tendencies developed in Europe and in the world in general, trying to upgrade Parliament as an institution for representative democracy, we must see it as an objective that is no longer detail nor luxury. And that, of course, is our case. I would, therefore, firstly like to say where the multi-legislative draft - and not only the amendment - forms part of the legislative policy, the legislative design of the Ministry of Economy and Development. With this bill - which solves a number of problems of the past, but also opens up roads for the future, such as financial instruments, such as patents, patents and intellectual property and much more - we create the foundations for what many call a new model of sustainable development, fair and inclusive, in line with the objectives for sustainable development of the UN. It follows the draft law on private investment strategies, which has passed since the consultation and is ready to come to Parliament. I guess we'll bring it along with the Development Bank bill, so we can get some time. It follows from the draft law that we create the potential for multi-annual public investment budgets under the heading 'National Development Plan'. He's already in consultation. The Public Investment Programme must be imagined to operate in the future as a modern Development Bank - let me say - which plans development programmes, evaluates development proposals before accession and after accession. Because today - you know very well - that this is not happening. We'll come back to them when the bills come. In this way, then, we are completing the preconditions to move on to what is a strategic issue, namely the design of the new programming period - it has actually started - which is typically beginning in 2021 and I mean the new ESRB. On the occasion of the new ESDP, however, we will talk about the new decade. So the framework is part of the draft law, which has too many issues, which is, of course, a problem before all for the government. We would like, in other words, to discuss more and more exhaustively some of these issues. I heard something about the bill being a facilitation bill. Of course, it's easy for the bill. But who makes it easier? We had the twenty-six bodies in the committee the other day, many of whom said that the bill solves problems for decades, enters a class in business parks, solves other problems and so on. There's nothing special about Rusphetology. I was amazed to hear the rapporteur, Mr Georgiadis calling Rusphetti the fact that we are strengthening the Secretariat of Strategic Investments and Private Investments. But many of you have spoken of slowness, delays, that we want faster processing. How is it possible to call after ‘sure’ that we are trying to fill such gaps? It was called "photographic order" a provision concerning companies we used to call outshore companies and said that the new provision also applies retroactively to those who may have participated in a tender, but which are before the opening of the financial tenders. I must tell you that this provision was correct. Mr Pitsirlas was forced to withdraw it - he did well, he consulted me - but we did it simply because there were irrational reactions here about rhetorical or photographic provisions. Those of you who are aware of the subject will understand or see what I'm saying in the course. Now to close the issue of the bill and go to the first place, I would point out that there are two amendments that are accepted. One concerns the Sugar Industry and the other is an amendment to the business parks which, as the Deputy Minister said yesterday, bring about some improvements resulting from the dialogue. I now come to the second big issue, the private debt issue, because the private debt is a huge problem, and not only concerns debts to the banks, but also debts to the public funds, debts to the insurance funds and so on. But what's that debt? What's a private debt? It is the result of the country's bankruptcy, first and foremost and secondly it results from the prolonged deep and unnecessarily necessary recession imposed by the first and second Memorandums. It is the legacy of the crisis, and if we see it historically and globally, this type of inheritance is not over quickly. I remember in 1994, 1995, sixteen years after the problematic business we had at the time, where the National Bank then, in 1995, even then, had red loans of over 16% to 20%, if I remember well. So we are talking here about a problem where its management must be coordinated, but also about the fact that there are no magical solutions. Our strategy is therefore based on two pillars, one being the recovery of the economy and the second pillar is the arrangements. The recovery of the economy facilitates debt management or in some cases, a red loan can make it a green loan. For example, the small rise in real estate prices or even higher we have in some cases is a very positive factor in dealing with red loans, housing loans, because banks can also be more able to make predictions, write-offs, etc. Unfortunately, developments in Europe, but the needs of the country do not allow us to let that happen, that is to say, to keep this process as far as it goes, because we have the highest index of red loans in Europe with an average of 3% to 4% - we are more than 40% - and therefore, since we want to participate in European procedures, we need to ensure that we reduce more quickly than we would like red loans. Secondly, it is a heavy burden on the economy, which is why the citizens who have no bank lending - some of them - ask 'good, we do not owe the banks, because we too have to contribute to these measures with our taxation.' The answer is that, unfortunately, if we are not all helping to solve this problem of red loans, then that will be an impediment, an obstacle to the overall development of the economy and society. The overall problem, therefore, just reminds me that it has a lot of capital. Firstly, they are the loans of the OEC, the Labour Housing Agency, where we received eighty thousand beneficiaries, 73% uninformed. This problem has been dealt with to a very large extent and is under control. It is not, for example, a problem that is unresolved today. Secondly, it is the public guarantee loans and it is a huge problem. Those who know from Thrace, from an Ilias Tower, from the Messinia and from many other cases are huge amounts and it's complicated, but I think we have this under control, even though there has to be a bank subscription here too, because the loans are with a public guarantee, banks very easily transfer the loan to the General Accounting Office of the State, etc. So we have also made arrangements here to deal with the problem. Thirdly, loans from civil servants to the Deposit and Loan Fund. The interest rate was stable, the salaries of civil servants collapsed, huge problem. Fortunately, this fund, although its role has been limited, has succeeded and made arrangements that are favourable. In addition, business loans are under way, the use of the institutional framework of the extra-judicial arrangement and various arrangements made by banks. In this general context, therefore, we must also see the amendment on first residence, which, of course, has its own sensitivity, because it concerns housing, is a human right, which is why it is necessary to see it as a society. Where did we start? Because here it was heard that the government retreated, it was heard that the government was compromised. I do not understand the Members who are disgraceful about compromise. Are there solutions where you don't collide interests and needs? It is in what direction, on what basis and on what balance. So I have to tell you that last summer's internationally dominated view of us is that, after we got out of the memorials, there is no need for any law of Katsel, there is no need for any protection. That was a temporary measure because of the crisis. Now, then, when the recovery started, you don't have to. Of course, this view was not correct because the crisis with its social dimension remains, when we have unemployment where we have or when incomes have not yet increased. But it was necessary to take this view because, as you know before the crisis, Greece had no protection framework, and so it took an effort and a insistence to establish that for us the country should have a first home protection system. Secondly, I think you're reading newspapers too. The views that dominated and published are that we are talking about arrangements with a ceiling of EUR 70,000 to EUR 100,000. We now have a regulation which is EUR 130,000 outstanding up to EUR 250,000 objective value and EUR 175,000 for traders. Thirdly, we were told by the banks that it was incomprehensible to enter the business loans, which were concluded with a first home guarantee. It is complicated, we cannot separate them, we cannot count them, it is not happening anywhere in Europe. We did this, and it's one of the most positive, I think, elements, because where I go and talk to the world from the most dramatic narratives I hear are former businessmen who were destroyed and chasing them and the bank taking them home. I'm not saying that others are in a better position, but it's a, really, focus of social dramas this space. From there on, of course, there are other things that we have not achieved. However, let us not forget that 70% of the weakest are covered. I am also impressed by the attitude of the JRC, which makes no distinction between the least impossible and the least impossible. I wish we could erase it all, Mr Colleague, but we need to see who pays for this. If you think these bankers are paying, you're wrong, they're coming back to the Greek taxpayer again and not to open this debate. I would like to say, therefore, that these figures I have said are relevant. For example, the regulation provides that the threshold is EUR 130,000. And if I have 131,000, will I be excluded? Of course, I'll be excluded from the law. But can't I get the 1,000 euros to pay for it? If the rest of my loan is 140,000 and the arrangement I'm waiting for is too strong, I won't find any solution, maybe, to pay 10,000, so that I'm at the limit of 130,000? I say this in order to point out that we will vote for a provision here - and I am glad that it will be voted on by more parties - but what will happen will depend, in practice, on how the banks act, how the borrowers act, how we deal with any issues that may emerge along the way. We will vote on it, proceed, see it in practice and we can come back. What are the areas covered by this arrangement? The first is what I said, namely that the range of beneficiaries with business loans is expanding. The second is the state grant, which in our hands is here to discuss how great we want it and how great it can be. Because the budget will cover 'bank subsidies'. That's what my colleague said. Why is it a bank subsidy?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u96	Immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u97	What would he say indirectly? The fact that we make it easier for the borrower to repay his loan, that this is good for the bank as well, because it is exempted from a red loan, does it not serve the public interest? But another place must also be given a rental subsidy. I'll come to that later. So, this is something new and it'll be for the whole duration. In other words, if the arrangement is twenty-five years, for twenty-five years the state will be involved, if necessary. That's the second one. The third is the new tools that banks will implement: the extension of up to twenty-five years. Interest rate - very important -2%. Especially for traders is much lower. Traders and businessmen had very high interest rates. The third is, of course, also the deletion under the terms and conditions laid down. The aim - and I would like to say this - is to help the borrower to get over with, to serve his loan and thus reduce red loans. And I say this because, of course, the Katselis law helped a world not to lose his home, but if you see the evidence, the red loans were transferred from the banks to the courts. If I remember correctly from the numbers, a hundred thousand cases are pending. That is what we want to go further. We therefore want to protect the first residence, reduce the dose in all these ways, enable people to pay and move on to this problem. Now that we have been late, we have been late because there are different interests and there are different opinions. We should consider that to be self-evident. That is why it is necessary to condone wider powers - and I am addressing the JRC - when you have opinions from some who, for their own reasons and interests, react, and the wider the range of powers that we support some measures the better we will have. I would like to say two words - if I have your tolerance for one more minute, Mr President - for the other dimension in the roof. In other words, we are only talking about the person who has a home, who owes it to the bank, and who finds it difficult to serve it. But there are many in our country, many new couples who do not have their own home. They didn't borrow, they don't have a debt, but they don't have a home. The housing problem will grow in our country. A few years ago, we didn't even consider it a problem. We said 'the whole world has its own home'. Because of the trends we have, like Airbnb and so on, we have to think that we will have housing problems. So what we are talking about is one dimension. The second dimension is the rental allowance. We need to look at it not as a temporary provision, but as an aspect of social policy. But the third pillar is also needed. We need home production, housing production. Here too, we can see this problem and dynamically, that is, we can see programmes that produce, give a solution to the problem, but also create growth. We are already beginning with the special needs, such as the homes. It is a huge problem, especially in areas where tourism exists. We are also going on with public investment and with PPPs to fund projects. They are the social workers who go to tourist areas and don't find a home. So the third pillar is a house offering either by building production or by renting apartments, if any, or by other collective forms that we can find. The bill we are discussing is therefore an opportunity to see it in itself, but also to see the broader context within which it is integrated. Finally, I will make a comment on what the rapporteur of the New Democracy said. He insists that SYRIZA won an accidental election, that people did not understand, confused, that we made fun of him and voted for us...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u98	The latter is true.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u99	And she voted for us in September again. He's gonna vote for us again now! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Do you know why? Not because we are infallible - because people see that we make mistakes, sometimes we make unforgivable mistakes - but because they are convinced that if there is a hope for the world, hope is still with SYRIZA. If we do not solve the problems, people know that it will be very difficult or rather worse in any other situation. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I thank you, however, for the cooperation in the drafting of the bill and we will see by night if there is any loose end that we can cover, we will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, may I respond after the interruption we are going to make?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u101	Certainly, before we interrupt, because there is a meeting of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and the Chief of Police will speak, to give the floor to Mr Spirtzi, who has a trip to Romania, in order to speak very briefly about the amendment, as well as to Mrs Zorba. Immediately after we interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u102	Well, that is not the case, Mr President, because Mr Spirtz and Mrs Zorba have brought amendments which are the whole bill. We cannot respond to these two legislative interventions. You can't do that. We have asked for an hour's interruption and agreed to be interrupted. It's not the whole world when the Census asks for this. That was the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u103	You're probably right. So we're interrupting here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u104	We did not know that, Mr President. We weren't alerted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u105	That's another deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u106	No, we have been informed in time, at least in the Bureau, that when the meeting of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group begins, where the party leader will speak, we will end and continue afterwards. We are therefore adjourning the sitting for an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Before giving the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr. Nikos Dendias, however, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, thirty-six students and students and two teachers attendants from the 1st High School of Nea Ioniasia Magnesia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Nikos Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor relatively early - as I am not used to - because the Minister and Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, because of his own programme, has received the floor immediately after the rapporteurs. I would like to say that I would prefer to have a comprehensive picture of the position of more Members. The provisions of the legislation were diligently implemented by the rapporteur, Mr Dimas. I think that almost the issues have been dealt with, our positions have been clear. We say, ladies and gentlemen, that this legislation is a typical example - with its volume and the provisions it contains - of the basic principles and rules of 'SYRIZA' legislation, a period of parliamentary and legislative times, which I think will not remain very positively engraved in the country's legal culture. We have, first of all, a piece of legislation which is entitled to a decent title, "The harmonisation of Greek legislation with Directive 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the others". But not only is it really a question of harmonising with a directive, but it is a question of stitching and conspiracy of completely irrelevant provisions, which should in no way be a single piece of legislation. First of all, two and a half years after Law 4412/2016 on public procurement, the government comes with this legislation to establish - if you love - that reality proved immature compared with the provisions of that legislation. It is worth looking at the explanatory statement, Article 43, which says ‘the ambitious innovations of the institutional framework’ - refers to the law of 2016 - ‘they have not been accepted by contracting authorities’. In reality, therefore, he comes and gets back provisions which, with positive arguments, almost triumphantly, had been introduced to the National Representation here just two years ago - and more - years ago. But that is not the only case. Another section refers to amendments to the Development Law, Law No.4399, 2016 again. Please remember, ladies and gentlemen, when this law had been passed, we had clearly warned that its provisions are not far from being a true copy of a European statute and that it will in fact remain unexploited. This prediction has been fully confirmed. So the government is now coming and is making an effort to extinguish its parliamentary term to somehow make Law No.4399, development law, more attractive. There will be no result in this, but, of course, in the context of the poor effort, there is also parliamentary authority. And I would like to explain that while Article 36(4) of the draft legislation abolishes the provisions of Articles 59, 61 of Law 4399, Amendment No 2062, which actually reintroduces the financial intermediaries that abolishes the legislation. You understand the seriousness of such a legislative approach. There are several provisions on the right and left, provisions on the CFO. It is worth telling us how these provisions fall within the framework of the legislation, but I would like to say - before reaching the end, and I refer to the provision for the protection of the first residence which comes before explaining the New Democracy's vote - that there is no lack of any legislation in any way whatsoever. - "SYRIZA" tactics of opaque, rospheological or both devices. I am referring first of all to the provision of Article 41 ‘Possibility to extend commercial leases to public real estate’. Neither too little nor much with this provision is renting property under Presidential Decree 34/1995 - this is for business leases, ladies and gentlemen - to be extended until 12 years, if they have not expired, or even if they have not expired, as long as the rent has not been paid. We should be honest with the Minister who suggests this provision because it introduces it. This extension of these provisions to the whole territory, beyond the tourist regions, beyond the border areas, what is the need? What request does society cover? Or, in order to be clearer and more honest with each other, what rouste of the SYRIZA is being implemented here by this legislative provision? Because if you look at the explanatory statement, it will not make you wiser. It's an ID in relation to the layout. What is this transparency that has come to serve today's power party expressed by such provisions in the National Parliament? It would be worth someone to tell us. I have to say to you that I have gathered in my office a "book" a hundred more rhetorical or opaque provisions that the present government has adopted in unrelated legislation. I imagine we will all agree that the amendment of professional lease provisions does not belong to a piece of legislation relating to a Community directive. That's all the time. This is the modus operaandi of this government. Inside a large, unconnected piece of legislation comes the rushphetti, small or large, opacity enters, small or large. We have here, therefore, another case of this kind, completely unexplained. No one has so far referred to her. Going back, to another rumphette mentioned, the secondments to the General Secretariat of Strategic and Private Investments, Article 54 - concerns staff - which comes into harmonisation legislation with a directive. In terms of legal form, the legislation is perfect. Well done! Bravo! What's he saying? Known rhysphetologicals. The secondment of staff - it tells us - to the General Secretariat is done by way of derogation from any other general or special provision, without a decision being required, without the agreement of the relevant service councils, following an evaluation by which, ladies and gentlemen, it is carried out. - the Secretary-General for Strategic Investments, i.e. Yannis, who is both cut and sewed and who is buying and drinking and who is extracting and judged. Is it possible for these legislation to be a member of the European Union's legislation? It was placed before the Deputy Prime Minister and told us that this legislation, this provision comes - why do you think? - to strengthen investment in Greece. In fact he said to us: 'You are not complaining that investment is not fast-tracked in Greece'? So when there are no investments in Greece, what is the answer? To give absolute authority to a state official in SYRIZA, to distract anyone who likes, as he likes, wherever he likes, and that will facilitate investment, so we will show that we are a state that is in favour of entrepreneurship, so we will show that we are a state that is in favour of law. Ladies and gentlemen, these things if they were not tragic would be absolutely ridiculous. No government that respects itself can recommend such legislation cannot bring such provisions, but the parliamentary system has long been completely absent from the parliamentary majority. The result of the upcoming crisis in Greek society has now been suspended every parliamentary area and everything comes here, to pass at the last minute, if we can make it easier for some people, in case we can save something. We leave the legislation itself and return to SYRIZA's favorite element, the amendments. With this late amendment, ladies and gentlemen, number 2060, last night, where the transfer of ownership and ownership of real estate to the EBRD is envisaged, and the direct sale of real estate from the EBRD in some cases, who are you serving? You want to tell us? Which roséetta or rosphetar is behind this amendment? I'm saying it's about moving public property and coming night, last night, without anyone seeing it, without anyone looking into it. If things don't hide behind it, what's behind it? Suddenly at midnight, last night, did the Minister of Finance wake up, flew out of his sleep and said ‘Oh, the real estate of the public is not diluted by the normal procedure, I have to do something’ and sat in the middle of the night, wrote the amendment, and he ran away and brought it to Parliament so that the public can perform his role? Is that what happened? Is it possible for these things to be done and to come here for vote? Ladies and gentlemen, I really thought that I belonged to the people who, in my parliamentary presence, tried to have mild tones. I felt that there should always be conciliation corridors, but there are legislative products of this government that force no one to be exacerbated, because it is impossible, but to completely lose his words, because he understands that they do not matter. I come to the point of protecting the first residence in order to end this. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is certain that this amendment, which also comes at the last moment after long incubation, does not solve the problem of private debt in the country. The Minister told us that it covers 70% of cases. It's not 70%, but less, about 60%. But what instances? Cases involving EUR 11 billion from EUR 240 billion of the total private debt to private and public debt. That's it. In other words, it covers about 60% of the EUR 11 billion, which is part of EUR 240 billion. So what part does it cover? The whole other huge private debt issue remains for this government, in fact, unregulated. And, of course, the New Democracy - and our rapporteur, Mr Constantinople, has rightly put it - is voting for the provision. Do you know why he votes for her? He votes for it because we have to help one of our fellow citizens. Even if one could benefit - and this is not just one here - we will not punish him because the law of SYRIZA is not enough. We'll give it a chance, and we'll fight for this. I understand the attempt to create a opposition climate against this government, and if you want me to understand the agonizing effort of PASOK to be differentiated, but we are not going to punish the Greek society to be different from SYRIZA. Cleaner and cleaner words. Do we like the layout? No, we don't like the layout. Would we write it like that? No, we wouldn't write her that way. But are we going to vote on it? Yeah, we'll vote for it, because we don't punish society for the mistakes of SYRIZA. We will help those who can be helped by this provision and will do all we can to extend it so that we can integrate other fellow citizens - take care, not the poor payers, not the batters - within a framework of protection. Because this society has been hurt by the crisis and it has been very painful, and that is obvious to everyone. And the New Democracy is a people's party, and it must be next to the people's layers, and that is what it seeks. We add something else to you, ladies and gentlemen. You are completely ignoring the informed borrowers, those who have built assets in the crisis, who have founded in the crisis, who have deprived their families of goods in the crisis, so that they can be informed. To these people, the banking system - for whose sensitivity I am not certain at all - but certainly the Greek Parliament, certainly another government must stand next door. Previously, the President of the New Democracy, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, speaking in the Senate Hall, was placed absolutely on the issue of informing borrowers. I have to tell you that since summer, since August 2014, I have agreed with the then Minister of Finance of Germany, Mr. Symble, to have such a arrangement. To date, the government has refused to bring it. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, this legislation on the protection of first residence is inadequate. We are voting on it in its inadequacy to help as long as we can help. We'll try to improve it. As for the rest of its regulations - as usual is the case with the decay legislation - it is obsolete. It affects provisions that are unacceptable, inappropriate and too much opaque. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, too. Mr Zorba, Minister for Culture, has the floor to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u110	Will he bring in another amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u111	Another amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u112	They're tabled. They have been discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u113	There's some provisions in the bill. Don't worry, Mr. Constantinople. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, the amendments concern copyright and the safeguarding of the right-holders. The amendments regulate the possibility of collecting rights that were incurred as claims in advance of the delegation of management to the IPO Special Emergency Management Agency and which have not been collected by the Collective Management Agency or the Independent Management Entity referred to in Article 50, whose authorisation has been revoked. It's the well-known GNI. Secondly, it is clarified that the revenues of the collective management organisations and the investments of revenue intended for distribution to the beneficiaries are not their assets and are therefore inappropriate. Third, the same applies to revenues accruing from music users to collective management organisations where the OPI exercises collective management in accordance with Article 51A and which are not yet paid or paid in securities or their payment is conditional on the adoption of a judicial decision. Fourthly, these amendments do not affect the rights of creditors of the Collective Management Agency. Fifthly, with the disappearance of the term'spiritual', a regulation is made between copyright and related rights and therefore applies to all collective management organisations. Sixthly, the issue of excluding from the confiscation of the amounts of distribution to be reserved for beneficiaries by the Collective Management Organisation is also regulated in proportion to the incomes of employees and pensioners in order to protect the minimum income of people living from work and necessary to maintain their own and family. Seventh, the matter is settled in the event of bankruptcy of the Collective Management Agency, so that the rights and claims are not the property of the IAS, whose licence was revoked or of its bankruptcy. The legal nature of the exceptional management of the rights of the beneficiaries of the Collective Management Agency shall also be specified so that the IPO undertakes, for an exceptional period of up to two years, the management of the rights of the beneficiary members of the above organisations with a view to ensuring the collection and distribution of rights. Finally, for legal certainty and in order to avoid conflicting interpretation, it is appropriate to clarify that the IPO is not a universal or special successor to the Collective Management Organisation or the independent management entity referred to in Article 50 of Law 4481/2017, since it does not acquire the assets or liabilities or in general the assets of the organisation referred to in Article 50 whose authorisation has been revoked. A final clarification on the retroactiveness of the burden on importers or producers of devices or computer products collected by the Collective Management Organisations and operated by the Minister of Culture and Sport. They shall not be imposed retroactively for reasons of legal certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u115	Minister Fotio has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u116	I will obviously refer to the amendment on the proposed framework for the protection of first residence. I can only comment on what I have just heard from Mr Dendia, who actually represents a new New Democracy, very young, which has no memory in relation to the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u117	Didn't you take the floor for the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u118	For the amendment, to protect first residence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u119	For the rest, write to take the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, may I continue or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u121	You are wrong to bring in so many amendments. We're out of our minds now!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u122	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u123	I don't hear what you're saying, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, I do not understand. Do colleagues want me to come to Stepma? I'll come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u125	Come to Step!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u126	What exactly do you want? For five minutes, you know I can talk from here. But if you want me to come to Stepma. Is that your problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u127	For saving time, he did it. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u128	That's what tycoons do!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u129	But can't the Minister talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not ask for more than five minutes. However, I have to talk about this amendment because this amendment is not independent of a whole government housing policy framework. I just said that it gave me great impression how new this New Democracy is, after Mr. Treasury was placed, when this party was actually born after 2015 as it turns out. He did not explain to us what the New Democracy housing policy was until that time. None. What was housing policy when the only country that had no rent subsidy was here? Never. What was housing policy for the first residence and whether there were red loans before 2015 or not? Then were there consistent borrowers or not? Did anything happen to all of them to this day? Not only did you have no policy on the first residence, but neither do we hear today amazement about the inadequate framework that - what to do? - you're obliged to vote. Well, let's see. Three axes are currently being implemented by the government. One already implemented, namely housing allowance. Well, shelter allowance. Ladies and gentlemen, we have announced the housing allowance a few weeks ago, and I am pleased today to tell you some of the elements which, firstly, show that we have made very good assessments of how they will be covered. Secondly, that we have a competent government sufficient to deal with a problem not with files, not with ruffles, not with specific situations, as you had up to now, but with uniform throughout the country. Within less than three weeks of the platform opening for the roof allowance, we have three hundred and fifteen thousand four hundred forty - nine applications. One hundred and fifty - two thousand eight hundred forty applications approved today. And just to say numbers, four hundred thirteen thousand of our fellow citizens will receive a housing allowance, which currently amounts to 237 million a year. In other words, the cost which so far has been recorded is 237 million. When were you able to do such things? Never! Not to give a hundred and fifty - two thousand, within fifteen days, a roof allowance, not even the disability allowance you could give! And that's what we packed up and give it now every month from the OPEKA. Single but inconsistent criteria. I consider it not just hypocritical, but to the limits of ridiculousness to talk about inadequacies, to talk about 'what to do' and hypocrisy. "This great inadequacy, however, will unfortunately be voted on, not even a man who can get hurt." This is the second axis that is being voted on today and will soon be implemented. In total, therefore, 500 million this year will be allocated for the housing allowance for a red loan allowance. And in total more than one million, seventy thousand people will benefit from these only two benefits. Thirdly, in the next one to two months, we will have a second major programme for vulnerable groups, students, vulnerable people, for socially accessible housing. This is a large project through the public real estate reserve, which you have not only been able to do, but also to think about. We will be here to see this whole programme evolve in front of you and to vote in such a modest manner on the things you have never done and you are obliged to vote today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u131	That's why the world is in the squares and celebrates every day since its enthusiasm!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u132	Mrs. Alonitou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, in today's draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development, 'Horizonising Greek legislation by means of a European directive and other provisions', I would like to refer to the amendment on the protection of the first home, since we all realise how important it is for a very large number of people, who are in a fragile state, not of course in their own fault, but because of the policies of the New Democracy and PASOK that led the country to the memorials, by sending out a million workers to unemployment and the whole society to misery and despair. But let's catch the thread from the beginning. On January 1, 2015, that is, twenty-five days before the elections, there was no first-resident protection. On the contrary, there was a complete release of the auctions. New Democracy and PASOK, leaving all borrowers unprotected, believing that they have another step to achieve the left-hand parentheses faster. Oh, no! They did not forget to vote for a law on the protection of first residence. It was their strategic choice for their micro-party interest and they were in no way interested in the homes of the cosmakis. Nevertheless, Katselis law has been extended and strengthened by the law of Katselis - Stathakis, protecting all these years since 2015 and after the popular residence. Of course, swimming pool villas, jacuzzi, saunas made with "air" loans without guarantees were not protected. Today, the government closes this loose end, protecting the vast majority of borrowers. I would remind you of the two recapitalisations of banks that you made, gentlemen, of the New Democracy and PASOK, which not only did you not recover confidence in the Greek banks, but on the contrary, their capital adequacy deteriorated. You have charged EUR 45 billion of the public debt with the recapitalisations you have made, since you have not been able to decouple them from the public debt, which has succeeded in other European countries with the same problem. One of the most serious reasons for your failure was that the recapitalisations you made were not linked to the resolution of unpaid loans, although these increased rapidly. What was that rapid growth? Of the 10 billion, non-performing loans in 2009 amounted to about 80 billion in 2014, i.e. how much eightfold were or, if you like, from 4.6% of non-performing loans in 2009, it was up to 34% in 2014. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. You know that when red loans are accumulated at the same time as the value of real estate that ensures loans - as happened in the period of the recession that you created, gentlemen of the New Democracy and of the PASOK - more funds are needed to continue the operation of the banks and, at the same time, lack the liquidity to finance the economy. So when you, gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, recapitalized the banks with the money of the Greek citizens, you put money into the bottomless dirt, that is, you did a hole in the water. So much capacity you have, not only did you go bankrupt the country, but, in wanting to save it, you have worsened its position even more. No more rescue from you! We've heard now. In today's management of red loans, an effort has been made to find the gold incision, so that banks can be redeemed and performed their role, which is no more than the financing of the real economy, but also the borrowers who are in real inability to repay their loan, to be protected so as to speed up the country's exit from the crisis and its consequences. With the current government's legislative initiative, a new institutional horizontal framework is being created for protecting the people's first home for tens of thousands of Greek citizens. It is the first time at pan-European level that business loans are protected with mortgage on first residence. Thus, an inequality created by the Katseli Act with the non-incorporation of persons with bankruptcy has been abolished. Entrepreneurs, traders, free traders, lawyers, engineers who had obtained a loan guarantee first home, for the first time being protected by the law. Based on the banks' available data, loans with objective and income criteria, which could be introduced into the law, are about a hundred thousand borrowers, covering about 70% of non-performing loans. In view of the fact that 75% of borrowers owe up to EUR 150,000, a number of our fellow citizens are relieved by voting on this amendment. Stop lying, gentlemen of the Police Department, in the Chamber! You do it every day on the channels. Your rapporteur, as well as Mr Deedias, Parliamentary spokesman, has been called upon falsely to invoke 200 billion loans when the institutions have told us that housing loans are only 46 billion and not 200 million. But you want to buzz them to impress them. And these 46 regulate the 12 billion. Furthermore, it has been explained - you do not understand, but it is common sense, I do not know what you are learning at school, but you do not have to go to school to have common sense - that the total amount of loans does not match the number of borrowers. No impressions, then, in here! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today's regulation with the specific accession criteria mentioned by our rapporteur is blocking thousands of fellow citizens from the redundancy of their housing loan, with facilities offered such as, firstly, by extending the repayment period of the loan which can reach up to twenty-five years; secondly, by providing for a low interest rate of 2%; thirdly, by subsidising the Greek State, throughout the repayment of the loan, where for the unemployed and without any income our fellow citizens the subsidy will reach 100% so that the state does not lose any such house, fourth, with a loan cut of more than 120% of the commercial value of the property that the borrower is obliged to pay. It is very positive that repayment is based on the commercial value of the property, as commercial values have fallen. All these possibilities combined may result in a reduction of the loan from 50% to 70% depending on the borrower's economic objectives and with the ultimate aim of facilitating as much as possible the world so that it can mobilise and start to repay its loan. The very important of this new legislation is that the possibility of recourse to a court is not abolished, since, for any reason, the admission of the borrower to the protection of the new law is not acceptable, so that there is a safeguard for any credit institution that has been misused and maliciously refused to regulate the debts of any debtor, threatening the first home auction. Ladies and gentlemen, this government negotiated and made arrangements for the protection of borrowers, but also for the consolidation of banks in terms of public interest. He takes over the burdens you loaded the Greek people because he is a government responsible and patriot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u134	All right, put a perfect one, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u135	I shall conclude, Mr President. It did not give back to any pressure from the banks by bringing in a law which actually supports our fellow citizens, who have no chance of repaying their loans and which facilitates all those who, with their small potential, can contribute to the repayment of their loans. What they do not know is whether the 500 million loans that New Democracy owes and PASOK will be able to enter into regulation and not repay the Greek people. I remember your Vice-President asking for the debts of the New Democracy to get tired and incorporated into the Katseli Act. Is that what you're gonna ask for now? Should we cut the accession criteria for you? You wish to come to power to continue the manner in which you have done in the past and to eliminate your debts to the Greek people. Fuck all of you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u136	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u137	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u138	You've got a long time to tell me you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u139	Besides, you have the answer - how, you know how to get thousands of euros, no one is looking for you for your repayments. Can you tell me how? Because I care very much. You also know how to regulate your debt only when you are caught with the sprout on your back, but even then you're going to set the percentages you don't pay almost anything in the ninety first instalments and you're leaving almost all the amount for the last centimetre in the hope that when good comes, you're back in things to adjust it in the same way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u140	Good. You're done. You're clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u141	But the Greek people will not leave you. You owe him, he doesn't owe you. That's why he's going to leave you in the opposition again, do you have management responsibility for the money that doesn't come out of your pocket, but from the fighting of the Greek people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u142	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-eight students and students and two teachers from the 1st New Ionian Magnesia High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Staruras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let us revert to logic and seriousness. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, the hybrid government is lagging behind in protecting part of the first residence. We are talking about the same government that in early 2015 promised, deceiving citizens, seismicism and "no house in the hands of a banker". We are talking about the same government that at the end of 2015 amended the relevant arrangements so that only 60% of those guaranteed in the previous framework will be protected later. We are talking about the same government that then voted to abolish the Katseli Act from 1-1-2019 with a slight extension later on. We are talking about the same government of auctions and seizures, of seizures - and Mrs Fotio has left - of one million and two hundred thousand of our compatriots. We are talking about the government of twenty-nine taxes, because allowances do not fall out of heaven. Obviously, citizens' overtaxation is being given. And he made no mention of the twenty-nine taxes that Greek citizens have to bear, especially the weakest income layers that will receive the benefits. We are talking about the government that would make unnecessarily third recapitalisation - my dear colleague reminded me of that - in the summer that, as Mr Tsakalotos said, would solve the issue of red loans by the end of 2015. I have here the relevant excerpts. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Then why are we talking about this today? And definitive resources were lost by Greek taxpayers from the third capitalisation. We are talking about the government that received the red loans at 43% of the total loan, and today it is at 47% of the loan portfolio. We are talking about the government - to remind Mr Drasakis - which has been systematically undergoing the Public Investment Programme for three years. We're talking about the government that raised private debt. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative spoke about private debt, which is the total debt to taxi, insurance funds and banks, and this is 223 billion, increased by 23% since the end of 2014. And today, with these features, this government is coming up with a long delay in tabling a regulation that curtails the protection of first home, even in relation to the proposal you supported a few weeks ago, which sets stricter criteria, a regulation which is complex and bureaucratic, without anyone knowing how effective the electronic platform announced will be to accompany it and at estimated financial costs, which will in practice be seen as the Minister has said, which does not ensure that no moral risk arises with a negative effect on the culture of payments, which does not address as a whole the big problem of red loans and the growing problem of the overall private debt. However, and because there is no new regulation, there is no longer even the necessary protection of the first home, the New Democracy will support it and commit that its next government will make it more operational, more effective, reveal all strategic malpractices and reward the consistent borrowers. It is something that the government should have already examined together with credit institutions which have the full picture of financial data, especially when amendments to clear banks' liabilities are voted for and at the cost of the state budget. So, yes, indeed, as the President of the New Democracy said a moment ago, there are useful resources, even a few initially, worth EUR 30 million for a decade, as the General Accounting Report of the State and for consistent borrowers shows. But, ladies and gentlemen, in this draft law, the government is very late to give a solution to a long-standing issue of Phthiotis, the operation of the Pan-Hellenic Lamia report. It is a report with many and important comparative advantages, but also large and time-consuming operating problems that have increased over recent years, mainly due to the inertia, indifference and lack of strategic planning of the current government, resulting in the non-organisation of the Greek exhibition in the past two years, while government officials have been committed many times for its normal operation. For example, in May 2018, the relevant Minister of Economy and Development argued that “the report will normally take place and there is a strong interest in the exhibitors to participate in it.” In July 2018, the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development argued that ‘The Pan-Hellenic Lamia Exhibition will operate normally from 5 to 7 October 2018’. Unfortunately, however, despite government assurances, the report was not carried out either in 2017, nor in 2018, and is not foreseen in 2019 either. The new entity, despite the fact that it had been announced by the Prime Minister himself in July 2017, is now institutionalised. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this regulation contains some positive features and is trying to move in the right direction, because it incorporates the New Democracy's own existing legislative intervention with No.4314/2014, which provided for a broadening of the activities and capabilities of the report. Based on the existing law, for which both the rapporteur's report and representatives of the local government and the local authorities are making positive references, the Panhellenic Lamia Exhibition can, inter alia, manage and operate a permanent exhibition and conference centre, modernise and expand all its infrastructure and organise exhibitions, seminars, conferences and meetings on issues of economic, technological, research, cultural and entertainment interest. However, with this government initiative, there are issues that raise concerns about the smooth functioning of the new structure, which must be dealt with in time and rationally. They are issues which the government appointed to run the existing legal framework itself, as well as shareholders of the new scheme by letters to the committee, such as the property of the report which is not part of the Ministry of Economy and Development, but the existing legal person, with the result that there is no transfer right, or insufficient for the proper functioning and upgrading of the reporting centre provided for share capital, or for the taking over of outstanding functions, malfunctions and obligations by the new body as a universal successor to the report, or for reference to a JAP of the regulation of the organisation and functioning of the new body, with what this may entail for the operational adequacy of the report, or the absence of the public by the new body, with what this implies for the central planning of a comprehensive policy in the field of the country's international reports. The question, therefore, is what needs to be done directly and in the medium to long term in order to return the report initially to operation and subsequently to develop in a sustainable way. We are prepared to help in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, too. Mr Koutsoukos has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. I had in mind to begin my position with Mr Drasakis, but I was caused by Mrs Fotios who told us from this step by step that her government is giving her benefits to those who are poor. And I wanted to reply to her, and also to the House, that the ambition of the democratic party and of the PASOK, which was ruled in the 1980s and 1990s, was not to give benefits, it was to raise the standard of living of all Greeks and of the middle class, with the result that, ladies and gentlemen, self-interest in Greece, that is to say, everyone putting a tile over its head, would reach the highest percentage of all Europe. That is the policy, and that is the challenge. I now come to Mr. Drasakis. Mr Drasakis, Mr.3869/2010 ended on 28-2-2019, that is to say the protection of the first residence established by the PASOK government when he undertook to manage a huge fiscal and economic crisis ended in government "the first time left". This is the harsh reality, that is what the Greek citizens know, because with the amendment you are voting on, the borrowers of first home, as I will say below very briefly, are left unprotected. And rightly the partners - and I turn to Mr Drasakis again - say to him: 'After you have come out of the memoranda, there is no need to protect first residence'. Yeah, that's how they think, Mr. Drasakis tells them we're out of the memoirs. The crisis is experienced by Greek citizens, however, by borrowers and it is very characteristic that the unserved housing from 36.5% of the total, which was in 2014, has reached 44.7% of the total loans, and this has been done to government "first time left". Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, here we come to respond to a serious issue which Mr Drasakis raised yesterday. He said: "We're not with the banks, we're with the borrowers." That's what he told us. And the answer came from those who, after persistent proposals of ours, were called and came to committee. And that's where we saw it? We saw the Association of Greek Banks, firstly, to take down Law No.3869 of 2010, namely the PASOK law, saying it was a shameful law and secondly to greet the Government. And of course we have seen all the other bodies and the Bar Association and borrowers highlight the major disadvantages of this arrangement with the 'Syrian-cutters' that leaves out seven out of ten borrowers. That's the hard reality. And because you did not invite the EMCDDA, even though I suggested it to you in my procedural intervention, I would like to submit to the minutes today's communication from the EMCDDA. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The communication has twenty points where it says that this piece of legislation is infamous, because first of all it is temporary, it has an expiry date of 31-12, it does not address the problem of what will be in incompetence after two or three years. Secondly, he has the infamous cutters, especially those in the 130,000 debts. Because it has no value, ladies and gentlemen, to have the value of the first house as much as 200,000 and to put a cap on the debt regulation with a ceiling of 130,000, and much more so that these 130,000 are embedded in accounting and judicial fees, but the amount of the loan is much lower. It is typical of whom the government is, the fact that it leaves the borrower at the mercy of the banker. From the 'no house in the hands of a banker' to the 'glory of a banker', because if it is assumed that this infamous platform will work, who judges the request, ladies and gentlemen? The banker alone. And what will the borrower do? When his proposal is rejected, he must go to court, but to go to court he has a 5% penalty and an increase. That's what you're setting up to answer who you are. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fotio here again told us about the subsidy, she says, for the first time at doses. Watch out. When the service cap is at 120% of the trade value, the dose subsidy is necessarily reduced and therefore the one that will be taken out of the borrower is much less than the one that would be regulated by Law 3769 of '10. That is why we are not voting for this regulation, and much more so since November we have tabled a comprehensive proposal for a law that reverses your logic. What does our proposal say? We are protecting all the first residences except strategic poor payers and batterers and transferring the problem to the banks, not like those banks who switch the problem to ordinary citizens. And don't fight New Democracy now. New Democracy is doing well and voting for this arrangement. She's in her philosophy, she's in her logic, she's giving tests to the lenders, the banks, and she's looking forward to getting up to power. You think about why you are voting for this arrangement. I come now, ladies and gentlemen, to the issues of the amendments which are very serious. Mr Secretary of State for Finance, you brought us in yesterday at 18.15; a arrangement that offsets the bank's credit balances from the obligations of Law 223/94. It's the withholding interest tax, that is, the bank's being held back and it pays him back. We asked Mrs Papanatsiou to tell us that a credit balance is being created in a withholding tax. He did not tell us, he invoked a decision of the Council of State. We called on her to bring her to the plenary to judge her, because otherwise the headlines that say you are giving 300,000 000 to the banks are not able to counter them. So we're waiting. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute more, Mr President. Second amendment, Mr Minister. By your decision on 19-6-2018 you transferred ten thousand tens of nineteen properties of the Greek State to ETAD. We have been calling you since then with questions to tell us what tens of thousands of nineteen properties are, because in the FEK you published only the KEKs, i.e. the numbers, and all Greece rose when it leaked that there is the White Tower, it is the museum in Chania, it is the walls in Heraklion and you got two thousand six hundred properties back. Mrs Zorba understood that too late, because she did not understand what she entered, and the rest remained. And you will be able to bring us an amendment here so that you can sell it, regardless of whether they have problems of adequacy, if they have joint ownership. This is obviously a shame, but, in any case, because he was the President of this House, at last, where we have to go to find out what the ten thousand nineteen buildings were? The D.A.? Parliamentarians, we invite you to bring us the list. Also, yesterday at 20:30, you tabled another amendment, which allows support structures for enterprises, by way of derogation from all the provisions, to recruit managers to serve small businesses' loans. That is to say, the chambers and the government are setting up a whole roussephic mechanism on the eve of the elections. I shall make two final comments on Article 57 of the law that we are voting on. Minister, you have done a good deed - you have done something good at one time - you have brought the personal difference between the Ministry of Finance and we have voted for it. Now you're extending the personal difference to the employees of the Ministry of Development. You're right. Watch out. Does the provisions of Article 57 indicate the date of application for the second paragraph of March, i.e. the day after the other, in paragraph (a), refer them to the validity of the original law, i.e. two measures and two weights in two Ministries? Correct it, it's a legal improvement. And I shall end, Mr President, with Article 40 on the outside. Our rapporteur, Mr Constantinople, pointed it out very well. So you decided, and voted in Eurogroup to be Panama in the co-operating countries. Good for you, bye, and with pleasure. You have not brought harmonisation, and now you are bringing in a regulation, which says that those who are outside the co-operating countries, including Panama, can enter public procurement, but are applying retrospectively. Why, Minister? If something is not hidden, as Mr Pittsirlas said - here we are and we are a responsible party and we want the investments - you say to us, 'yes, we have made a mistake, it is about this big strategic investment and we do not want to blow it up in the air, we want it to be ratified'. But if you do not do that and leave the device as it stands, it goes on to say that something suspicious is going on, so we will not vote on it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Germenos from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u147	Once again, we are actually discussing a multi-brand plan of the Ministry of Economy and Development. What kind of Ministry is the Ministry of Economy and Development, which has been developing in Greece for over fifteen years? You are bringing a plan and, as if it were not enough, you are bringing more than ten amendments, which are irrelevant to each other, they have nothing to do with this Ministry. In fact, some of them are also trembling, such as the pentokiller you give to the earthquakes of Zakynthos, after so many months after the earthquake. It seems now that the elections are, you are looking at electoral tactics to gold out the pill to some - in introductory - "votemen" of yours. You also bring the amendment to a general number 2062 on aid to certain undertakings. Now you remembered to give them some crumbs, too, since, if we go out of the Athens shopping triangle, one business closes behind the other. Every time we talk about a number of amendments which come from all sides of the House, we condemn them, but with the tolerance of the Bureau they continue to come and no one complains. You bring amendments that should normally be whole bills, such as the abolition of the Katseli law on first residence, you do not go through public consultation, you bring in bodies from the back door and at the last minute, trying to hide your dissatisfaction. The 'first time on the left', a left government, has become the best pick-up in Brussels, you have become submissive to banks and you are legislating on the basis of the interests of international loan sharks and bankers. There are decisions by the Council of State which acquittal borrowers and, in accordance with Article 95, decisions by the Council of State are made automatically by the Greek State. We're talking about people - 15 years ago we all remember how they ringed our phones and banks donated loans, they said "Come on, get a car, come on, get a loan to go on holiday" - who borrowed to build a tiles to give it to their children tomorrow, and none of them thought that today's reality would be completely different in the years of the memoranda. They have come to begging people for a loan of 150,000, 200,000, 250,000 or 300,000, which is humiliating to discuss. It had to be the first time - what the Golden Dawn said - that the Katseli law should be extended and not abolished, and indeed by a government that is supposed to care for the people. You left should, supposedly, legislate in favour of the people's strata. But you, hand - sit on the table, behind dark doors, and entertain with your bankers and bosses, who are already paying you. Because it is no coincidence that while you were in 3.5% -4% of SIEMENS, you were hitting the shipowners, you were hitting the dark business circles, as you were telling them, and now suddenly you are putting people who were then corrupt people, they were behind the system, they were intertwined, they were the ones who uploaded the PASOK or the New Democracy governments. Now you're making these garrisons and putting them in the Eurobond. You have brought this amendment, in which you are effectively abolishing the Katselis Act, which protected the first residence. There are more than 70% - 80% of borrowers left outside and you open the way to enter new predators, grab houses, make new auctions and find people in God's mercy. You are not protecting the multiples at all, since under this provision either you have a child or you have six children, the state, instead of rewarding you, does not give you any lightning and put you in the same pot as the others, which, in fact, according to these laws that you have legislated here all these years, have found a window and borrowed money at the expense of the Greek taxpayer. At the moment, these people are entering the same sack as the common loopers, who have been stealing for so many years. What you were yelling at and when you were still at 4% and later when you were an official opposition, the "no house in the hands of a banker", you have now changed it and made it "no house in the hands of an owner". The Golden Dawn in the upcoming European elections and regional elections hopes to raise its shares. But above all - because we do not care so much about the percentages - we are interested in the awakening of the Greek people and from where we are given a voice, beating and shouting the truths, for the Greek people to hear what is really happening, what the Golden Dawn represents. Because you can call us criminals, tell us criminals, tell us anything, but nobody cares about the hundred dead in Matty. There's all been a misdemeanor. For the dead man who killed someone, somewhere, over seventy inmates were found in prison and the entire Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group. That's what I had to tell you. To conform, look at them. We hope that in the European elections SYRIZA will be a left-wing parentheses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Katsotis from the JRC has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC's rapporteur presented our position on the draft law, as well as on the amendment tabled by the Government for first residence, whose duration of application we note that it will only be in 2019. This amendment provides for conditions and conditions which are more unfavourable than the previous framework, and this cannot be called into question by anyone and excludes more borrowers from the protection of the first home. He's blackmailing so the banks can grab what's left of the house so they don't lose their house. As a JRC, we are tabling the amendment on the relief of overdue households for a long time. In previous attempts, all parties rejected the JRC's proposal, extending a protection shield to monopolistic and banking groups. With our amendment, we insist on the need for an immediate ban on first home auction of an objective value of EUR 250,000, increased by EUR 50,000 for every child, and a secondary residence of an objective value of up to EUR 150,000. It is the response to bank capital plans to exploit auctions as a lever for pressure on the labour and folk layers. We note that the proposal for a law was tabled again in 2012. It was discussed in 2013 and rejected by the then coexistence of the New Democracy - PASOK and DIMAR. SYRIZA then, as an official opposition, had voted in favour of the proposal, Minister. When he came to the government, he rejected the continuing efforts of the JRC to protect the indebted households. When did he do the right thing? Then what? Let the people answer that before and during the elections. From 2010 until today, we had a series of legislative arrangements for the debts of the indebted households, such as Katseli 3869/2010, Law No.4336/2015 and Law No.4346/2015, Law No.4366/2016, Circuit series, Bank code of conduct, amendments, cooperating borrower and how this is defined, reasonable living costs and others. This whole framework, shaped by one law, was worse than the other, was directed primarily at ensuring the banks against the backdrop and to exert greater pressure on the indebted families. The regulatory framework that has been formed has narrowed down any protection framework there was. For the vast majority of the people, workers and other people, at this time of the capitalist crisis, with the three memorials, the hundreds of law enforcement, the conditions of life have changed rapidly. Their position has deteriorated further. Long-term unemployment, the 'lever' in wages and pensions, the generalization of the flexible forms of work, the introduction of group redundancies by limiting the right to strike, the refusal to reinstate the minimum wage to 751 euros and collective agreements - in accordance with the proposal submitted by the five hundred thirty workers' organisations and tabled by the JRC alone - and the abolition of collective bargaining for the minimum wage and its formation by a government decision, on the basis of ensuring the profitability of business groups, the wild taxable, the prerogative of a series of anti-gravures, is part of the anti-corruption measures adopted by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government or the 'first time left', which have undermined the lives of a large majority of the workers and the people. In order to ensure the uninterrupted repayment of debt and the financing of capitalist development, the SYRIZA Government also established the cutter. Of course, the Minister claims that he still did not use it. But it's to be implemented. All of this is further exacerbating the position of workers and the people, especially those who have been forced to borrow in the period of growth. The overcompensation of the people's households has been made in conditions of capitalist development and indeed at a high rate. The incomes, even though they were much higher, could not meet basic needs. The people came into lending for housing, health, education for their children and other basic needs. In conditions of capitalist crisis, with full overthrow of the conditions of pay and work, with the wild tax-payer, you have led to a complete weakness of repayment of the loans of thousands of workers and people. Hundreds of thousands of workers, self-employed, poor farmers and farmers who cannot respond to their debts have literally been despaired. They're in danger of losing their homes in auctions. If there is no haircut and long-term settlement of these loans, unless there is a ban on auctioning and seizures, thousands of people's households will lose what they have left. Gentlemen, in your words you all admit the marginal situation. But what do you think? You say that the JRC's proposal is unrealistic, it is unrealistic, because its implementation presupposes that banks should bear the burdens. Yes, the JRC's amendment shifts the weight of the crisis to the banking groups. It provides for a drastic reduction in the debts of the people's families to the banks. It is consistent with our overall proposal, with our overall strategy. It responds to the people's needs and their satisfaction. It is about both the information and the late loans of the people's family. It provides for a haircut both of interest and of capital. It provides for the cessation of seizures, as well as any enforcement act or other necessary measures. We have a question of terms and conditions of business as well as of agricultural, agricultural loans. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little time, Mr. President. We are raising the question of protection and exemption from mortgages, which poor farmers had against the Agricultural Bank and which was transferred to Piraeus Bank. What does the JRC's amendment that we are tabling today? Firstly, from every type of debt, from every form of loan by credit institutions to delete all types of interest, any amount from anatomy and capitalisation for families with an annual family income of up to EUR 40,000, increasing by EUR 5,000 for each child. Secondly, from the debts of the people's households, as they are formed after the application of the above, to delete an amount corresponding to 50% of them, since the amount of the loans does not exceed EUR 200,000 for housing loans, EUR 30,000 for consumer loans and EUR 20,000 for credit cards. Thirdly, the debts of the local households to credit institutions, which remain after the above write-offs, cease to bear interest for a period of two years. Fourthly, payment of debts shall be suspended if they concern unemployed people and for as long as unemployment lasts. Fifthly, the debts of HSE to credit institutions, which relate to their professional activity, as they are formed after the application of all the above write-offs, are reduced by 30% if they maintain their business, by 50% if they have been closed and are unemployed and for loans up to 300,000 euros. Sixthly, the debts of poor farmers and fishermen to credit institutions, which relate to their professional activity, are also reduced by 30% and by up to EUR 300,000. The State’s responsibility shall ensure that credit institutions and without a mortgage or an addition to a mortgage of assets, interest-free agricultural loans to small and medium-sized farmers and farmers, in order to respond to the market for crop supplies for the growing season. Seventhly, since the entry into force, any act of forced execution or any other measure imposed by credit institutions to the detriment of the people's families, the unemployed, the self-employed, the small UAEs, farmers and fishermen has ceased. The above regulation applies to the first main residence, up to EUR 250,000, plus EUR 50,000 for each child, as well as to the secondary residence, with an objective value of up to EUR 150,000. Since the entry into force of this Agreement, the amount of the claims of credit institutions secured by mortgage or a mortgage on the assets shall be automatically limited.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Katsotis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u151	I shall conclude, Mr President. The JRC's amendment is realistic because it responds to the concerns, the unsupported difficulties of the people's family, because it meets its needs. On the other hand, political support for capital, banks, monopolistic groups leads workers, self-employed people in despair. That is why it is necessary to strengthen the alliance of workers, self-employed in the city and in the village, while at the same time weakening the support line of the monopolistic groups. The attitude of the political forces rejecting the protection of the overriding households from the "paracists" also becomes a criterion of vote. The collapsing with the JRC, its strengthening in the elections and everywhere is the answer. This will make the real difference, give strength to the workers and the people, his struggle to cover losses, to relieve the working people's family, to claim the real needs. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, those who trade with the banks pay great attention to fine letters. This is nonetheless because they know that there are traps hiding and, if they do not notice well, these details will make them pay for it very expensive. Something similar, my dear Mr Tsakalotes, must also be done with the amendment tabled by the Government to deal with red loans. Those who were convinced by SYRIZA in 2015 that he had the magical solutions to the economy and would write off public and private debts, now pay the fine letters of government propaganda. When, for example, in 2015, the leadership of SYRIZA - I do not know you too, Mr Tsakalotus, if you followed what I will say to you - you were talking about seismicism, you obviously meant the settlement of debts of up to EUR 130,000, which will of course be paid in regular instalments and without any deletion. When the Prime Minister had made his flag and I don't know if you, Mr. Chakalote, had a smaller flag that said "no house in the hands of a banker", obviously had an asterisk, had fine letters that didn't fit in the rhyme, and you meant houses worth up to 175,000 euros a guarantee for business loans or up to 250,000 euros for housing. When SYRIZA was talking about the crows that would buy the loans at degrading prices, you eventually described the practice that the banks are implementing massively. And when the entire Left Government swore that it would not allow an auction, obviously, Mr Tsakalote, you did not mind those who have an individual income of more than EUR 12,500 and for couples of over 21,000 euros. In addition, you have never put your horizon - and this is really regrettable - the consistent borrowers. Those who have vacanted to repay their loan during the years of the crisis have some relief, as opposed to strategic poor payers? Yesterday, in committee, Mr Drasakis, following my persistent questions, which I have raised several times in the last six months, revealed to us that one in four borrowers with a red loan is bankrupt, a strategic badge, has the money, but does not pay the loan. So the fine letters of the Tsipra government reveal that the protection bar in relation to the Katseli law clearly goes down. More borrowers will be faced with forced measures and seizures. The new limits are stricter not only than they were before 2015, but also than they said government officials a few days ago. This has his explanation. The uncovered promises of seismicism and, of course, the disastrous negotiation of the first half of 2015 burdened the situation of the banks and erupted private debt. The credit system has not exceeded the 2015 shock, the mass deposit outflow and the capital controls. The third inconsistencies until 2014 were made at the prices of the banks – ‘flats’ in favour of the funds and at the expense of the public and shareholder interests. Banks cannot finance the real economy at competitive rates and provide liquidity to the market. The problem is gigantic as long as growth remains anemic. Investments are falling, as shown by the Statistical Office data, for the second half of 2018 and thus the country is unable to attract new funds. For as long as GDP is not significantly increased and quality jobs and new income are not created, the arrangements for loans, such as today's amendment, will never solve the problem. Maybe they'll give a little breath, but the structural problem of red loans won't solve it. The situation in the banks and the economy would have been much better if there were no cries for seismicity, the threats to Grexit and this inappropriate six-month negotiation of 2015, which led things to the bottom of the barrel. The borrowers and total taxpayers have paid dearly the finest letters of the promises made by the SYRIZA and the orphan ANELs, I would say today. This results from the contents of today's amendment, which, despite its limited scope, I shall be voting in favour. However, my dear Mr Tsakalotes, political instability lacks a clear prospects for investment, for economic relaunching and for better entrepreneurship within Greece. When the elections are a healthy game in the hands of the government staff, tell me on what terms can the economy recover? More specifically today, he escaped the scenario that Mr Tsipras will be calling for parliamentary elections on 19 May. In other words, on 19 May the parliamentary elections and a week after the European elections. And I ask Mr. Chakatto this. Mr Tsakharov, when you go to the Eurogroup and if you ask your colleagues 'what do you think, the elections must be held before or after the European elections', what would you say? Is it good for the economy or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u154	Four years first!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, do not react. The election date - I imagine you will agree with me - is not a political game in the hands of any political leader. Right? It is not an elevator for the elections to go up and down whenever we want. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to Mr Chakaloto that I also convey a message from Scarlett Johanson, which asked me to present you as soon as possible to the parliamentary elections so that you could stop being government and have more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u156	Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u157	I feel, Mr President, disadvantaged. I don't have a message to carry from a shining face, and that's why I'm just gonna limit myself to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u158	Don't worry. Pick company for your free time, you two.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u159	I'm not transferring a message. I made it clear. I shall therefore refer to the bill as a matter of urgency. And I cannot talk about the whole bill, which is huge, it is multiracial, but what shows the picture of the news today is the amendment to protect the first home. I read the title: ‘Repayment grant scheme for housing and business loans with mortgage on main residence’. As the title seems to relieve debtors, it seems to save. But are things in this particular case, or is there a mismatch between title and content, so should we say that the title is false? I am therefore standing at the following minimum: up to EUR 130,000 the limit of the loan that can be included in the arrangement, including interest-free interest-free capital, plus the costs of execution. But who is responsible for interest and payment costs? Is the borrower responsible? I will recall something else: In November 2015 the amendment of the Civil Insolvency Act to protect the first residence was passed. It has been heard here, in this esteem, that the number of peacekeepers is increasing, that the number of secretaries is increasing, to speed up the trials. No case has been brought, as little as possible, during the four-year period. Of course, Article 12 of the well-known law of 2010 adds to the debt of contractual default interest. Should the government not have made sure that these cases have been dealt with and that those who are entitled to protection know what they will pay, while those who are not entitled to protection are not allowed to stand out and claim claims from the banks? That's not what happened. And today you are coming, gentlemen, and you are saying - I think the New Democracy agrees and I am surprised by this - that 'you know, the interest was unpaid plus the costs of execution'. Of course, execution costs are also included, because there is also a payment order, since he couldn't pay. But that's what's to blame for? It is not the recipient of the loan, it is not the debtor who had relied upon and sought legal protection for his first residence. It is 100% of the government, which did not make sure to claim justice, did not make sure that any decision was taken. So you know what that means? That the government will be called upon to be called upon to the state, eventually the taxpayer, to pay compensation to those who are unregulated. There is a responsibility and we legalians remember Article 105 of the Introductory Law of Civil Law, that if the citizen is damaged by a state's uncertainty, he pays the state. I have also tabled a question on this, entitled 'The responsibilities of the government for the late payment of applications for the protection of the first place of residence'. Claims for the compensation of borrowers shall be incurred.’ Answer, of course, I never expect a similar kind of question. I'll testify to her for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, presents the above question for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, and most critically: I have, like many colleagues - very many questions, had too many debates in the context of parliamentary scrutiny with Mr Drasakis on the question of protecting borrowers in a Swiss franc. We had concluded and reminded us that I said this at the time, almost two years ago - and to repeat it - that it is time for politics and it is not the time for the courts. Mr Drasakis told us to wait for the rulings of the courts, what he would say to the borrowers of the Swiss franc, what the euro and Swiss franc would be. Do you know what this amendment we are discussing today? It reads ‘In order to determine the ceiling of EUR 130,000, account shall be taken of the foreign currency and euro exchange rate at the time of the application referred to in Article 5’. In other words, the government for the first time legislates in a first-place protection law that it has no right to appeal to the court to question the exchange rate of a Swiss franc or another foreign currency to the euro and will pay at the current rate, that is to say, 50% to 60% more expensive to its loan. And why am I saying that no one can go to court? Because it is now a provision of formal law. The Ice Bay judgment is expected, which says that it cannot be judged as an abuse or non-legal term of a contract which repeats a provision of formal law. So we close the door to them, too. We'll invite them to pay or, if they can't, we'll take them home and say we're protecting the first residence. These are not things and they are not - let me say the words - and they are serious. We either want protection or we don't want it. The next issue that has not been dealt with concerns the guarantors. Do you know what you're doing? In 2010 with the Civil Insolence Act there was intention, optimism, if you want, that the guarantor will not be affected, because the laws will function, the lender will be protected and the guarantor will be released. But this is where the stage has been prepared to tie the guarantor better than everyone else. The banks won't lose. And why won't they lose? And on the platform to enter a judicial decision to succeed, the validity of the decision or the platform to the guarantor does not extend. Mr Drasakis came in the summer and brought a provision - to remind her - which said this: If the guarantor is asked to pay, he will turn against the first debtor. Oak if you're a owl than you don't have. This, however, serves the banks, because, since the guarantor is not protected and has no right to go to the platform here - there is no right for the urban loan guarantor to go to the platform - what will the bank do? The bank can't do infidelity, according to hers. Because then what's gonna happen? It will turn against the guarantor, claim the difference in loan, interest, execution costs from what has been arranged by the platform and will take almost two of its claim, the one you claim to solve the problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have too much, if you want, to say. Let me also remind you that since 2015, the state would contribute. The state has never contributed to borrowers. It left a lot of people out of the way because they have never been given those gorgeous 200 million that are mentioned - even today to 150 million for this year and 200 for the year - they were not given to the borrowers because, he says, there was not the information process. Unprecedented. Mr. Drasakis has said so. He's told me in the House. There wasn't, he says, the information process. Who guarantees that this money will be provided to regulate the grant of loans? And let me say the last one, Mr President, because I see that time is a bit short. All this, if we summarize them, do you know what the conclusion is?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u160	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Comrade, don't complain. Listen to me sometime, learn to listen. So, you know what's going on? What will benefit from this arrangement? Many will not go in, many will go out of control, because the value of the house is a negative condition for membership, many will avoid following the arrangement, because they will have no condition and in the end will pay with their homes the money that banks have already collected in the recapitalisation! Because in 2015, when the banks were recapitalised by 26 billion, they also accounted for the write-offs that banks will make from the losses they will have from the red loans. These have been prepaid by the Greek people. The Greek people have undertaken to pay the deferred bank tax, instead of paying the same income tax, because they are supposed to serve the first residence. So we come to a conclusion - and the government does not give us the part - about who will ultimately be the beneficiaries and who will win and who will lose. Will it unfortunately be lost, with a false amendment by the government, the average family man, the micro-supplier, to the glory of whom? To the glory of capital. But is that a left policy? And I am surprised - and I repeat - that the New Democracy supports it, of course, by putting some reservations, saying 'yes, we will vote, but we will improve it'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u162	Hang up, please. This is no time for repetition now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u163	So I think that this should be weighted, and that also justifies our negative vote. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u164	Be well. Mr Panayotaros, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President, and welcome from unholy Australia. I will make a comment on the previous Member, Mr Amyras, who said there are rumours that there are going to be national elections in May. I would like to answer that the main reason why there will not be elections until the last day of the law and the Constitution is that the rulers enjoy great pleasure that most of them will never see again after the end of September 2019. So it's not about some strategic planning when Mr. Tsipras or any other mystery, complicated plan will make the elections. It is very simple to enjoy what most of the rulers will never see again. I come to this bill. We see that you are bringing another multiplier plan - 'pot cigarine', which has little of it all: a number of provisions, articles regardless of each other, services, ruffles and many amendments as usual. Many of them are bills on their own, such as the amendment concerning red loans, which should come and be discussed separately, so that there is plenty of time for all those who want to refer to this most serious issue that is stirring up the overwhelming majority of the Greeks. And we arrive at the popular assemblies in the Constitution, where Mr Tsakalotos was present and said a number of very nice things at the time about seismicism and other very important decisions, in what Mr Drasakis said very elegantly and very kindly, namely that we have compromised. In simple terms, he told us that we were taken by the lenders and the bankers. Unfortunately, you are giving everything really once again by the method of salamation - and we will explain it - to the banks, from State guarantees up to 2010 - which were more than EUR 200 billion and which were being swamped by bankers every three and a little - in the recapitalisations of EUR 50 billion - which the Greek people paid through the memoranda and the current government, but also to the previous governments, who had to do most of them or with the sea loans of the parties - which touch half the EUR half a billion - or that we reached a point where someone owes a lot of money to various banks, which have the first reason to do so, from two stops and two stops. There is a lot of talk about it with very nice words, such as 'eligible' or 'cooperative' borrower. In short, the one who leans on the bank's appetites - the bank's irrational and illegal appetites - is the one who possibly has a chance to save his home. I would also like to make a comment on the so-called'strategic poor payers'. There is a lot of talk of these strategic mispaid people. But who are these strategic poor payers at last? First of all, they are the two big ones - one rather large ones, they are no longer - parties, which owe about EUR 500 million to banks of all kinds of maritime loans, which they received and of course they will never repay. They are these intertwined, who are now very fond of SYRIZA, who have borrowed huge sums. Fortunately, there are many middlemen and "Manolians" who have so far - and they know that they will always exist - to put the file and the case under and below, at the same time as they are chasing the small, the helpless, the small and the medium-sized ones, who do not have a "Petsite", to arrange for the tricks and are forced - those who have the opportunity - to appeal to the courts. It is that famous contribution by Law 128/1975, which was also found to be illegal and abusive, the transfer to the borrower. The anatomy was also judged to be illegal and abusive. And we are talking about billions of euros, huge sums illegally collected by banks for too many years and now they have not been returned, they are nowhere. The competent Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, has also been questioned through parliamentary scrutiny and, of course, he has not answered anything about the substance. As far as we know, a prosecutor has been seized on this matter and we hope that this case will not be buried. But, above all, there are thousands of final court judgments, which are in favour of borrowers for all kinds of loans. And I wanted to bring these decisions, but it would take a tricycle to bring them in and submit them to the Minutes, because the volume of these decisions is too great. We all have one by one. According to Article 95(5) of the Constitution, it is laid down that the final judgments of the courts should automatically be regarded as State law and central government, in short, that the government should move in this direction rather than leave the bankers’ ballots, the citizens, the borrowers to fight judicially, those who have the courage to face up to the unfamiliarly failed banking system. If you applied the laws, there would be absolutely no problem. All these fine letters, the abusive provisions of the banks, the loan sharks, would not exist and there would be no problem. It would have been normalized. But you, like the previous ones, do not want to normalise the situation. You don't want to apply the law and with various terraces you're trying to get the banks and the bankers out. We see that lately, after these court rulings started growing up, the banks themselves began to go to many borrowers, to many who have housing loans and to change their terms so that they could be more favourable. However, an agreement has to be made under English law, because if it is done under English law - and there are many agreements made by borrowers - they cannot appeal to the courts to claim what we say, self-evidently. So the banks didn't do it for their mother's soul. They do because they have their nest dirty to the point where it doesn't go. I would also like to say about the "Greek Dawn for Attica" and the candidate district, Elias Panayotar, who goes down to the self-government elections, that we intend to establish a legal agency for the service and legal assistance of borrowers so that they can deal with the lack of banks and bankers. As for this famous quake, you called it by a horn there in 2012 and you said it by 2015, but then you slowly forgot about it. After the third memorandum and the September 2015 elections, when you delivered land and water to the lenders, these were now forgotten and went in a completely different direction. Of course, none of what you have done helps the recovery of the economy, not even after your 'exit' - within many introductory and miraculous - from the memoranda. Here you see that the country is still under constant control. There are no disbursements of money that should be given to Greece for various reasons. They keep us in the microscope, and they're checking us for anything. You are the best handlers of all those that you were arousing until the summer of 2015, of the loan sharks, the bankers, the troikas and all those who are oppressing not only Greece, but also a large part of Europe. And all of this, from everything, in exchange for giving you the freedom to apply your anti-Christian, anti-Christian policies, these political plans you had when you were at 3%. And we see the last one, one and a half years, after a lot of bills, which give everything to the illegal immigrants at the expense of Greek citizens, when you give land and water to all who have nothing to do with the Greek state. We saw it when you signed, against the vast majority of Greek citizens, this shameful, treacherous agreement - as you call it - of the Ambassadors. We saw it in the parades that all over Greece - and not just - you could not stand anywhere. Finally, we also see this video released from yesterday, which causes the disgusting, but also the laughter, that Mr.Vitsas has gone to an event of the Pakistani Community of Greece at the Economic University of Athens, in a crowded room of thousands of Pakistanis and tells them: "We will give you everything and do you and show you." This is the only friendly audience to you, because you can no longer find any response to Greeks. It is the crime that, because of your ideas, you have literally left it in God’s mercy. They are the Greek citizens, who are now trembling to circulate within their homes. Every day we see phenomena happening throughout Greece and incredible situations happen. Of course, we also see the new Criminal Code, which I repeat that we will vote against, when it comes, against these wine-growth philosophies that you say is at the cost of Golden Dawn. Everyone will be released and nobody will be left on the substance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In two months' time, we will also have the European elections. By judging both your fears and your statements, not only yours, but also all the liberals and internationalists throughout Europe, about the extreme right, as you say, of nationalism, these European elections will probably be the beginning of the end of this rotten establishment in Greece and Europe. We hope that all will go well for the peoples and nations and that all those who are working for the dissolution of the nations will go the worst possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u166	Mrs. Jackie from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the new legislative framework for the protection of the main residence, which has a dual and crucial social and economic purpose. Firstly, it aims to rescue the main home of the economically weak citizens and, secondly, to introduce an automated regulation mechanism for non-performing loans, housing and business, which have collateralists in the main home, so that this black hole of the Greek economy finally shut down, the red loans, which have led to destabilisation of our banking system and prevented it from accomplishing its main development purpose. This is a new legislative framework, which aims to cover the gaps, ambiguities and vagueness of Katseli's existing law and to regulate the repayment of all kinds of claims and credits on housing and business loans, as I have already said, and consumer banking to banks, their issuers and managers of these claims, as well as the loans from the Deposit and Loan Fund, by express provision now. This legislative framework introduces two basic innovations. First of all, it focuses exclusively on the rescue of the main home of economically weak citizens by introducing horizontal regulations concerning all citizens, whether they are freelance traders, whether they are employees or retired or unemployed. Thus, the ambiguous and incomprehensible criterion of the existence of the applicant's bankruptcy capacity under the Katseli Act is being abolished and the disparities between the citizens of the same category are now completely eliminated. Second important innovation in the legislative framework under discussion is that the arrangements that will be reached are no longer personal, but allow them to continue with the heirs of the original beneficiaries. This innovation should not be omitted as it was the secret trap of the Katseli Act. Only if someone could live up to the judicial regulation of his debts, would he manage to rescue his principal residence and inherit it to his children. Otherwise, his family would have inherited all of his debts and even at the original level, i.e. as if the court had never taken place. This legislative framework solves for the Greek family the problem of protecting its principal residence from auctioning and does not transfer it to the next generations. The eligibility criteria for someone to be subject to the beneficial arrangements of the legislative framework and to rescue their main residence have been chosen with objectivity, clarity and easily confirmed, in order to avoid circumvention by the so-called systemic operators, who, until now, have taken advantage of legal ambiguities and have chosen their parallel or successive integration into all existing legal frameworks, with the ultimate objective of not paying anything for as long as possible. The first criterion, therefore, is the objective value of the main residence, which must not exceed EUR 175,000 in the case of business loans and EUR 250,000 in any other case. Second criterion is the level of the applicant's income, which can be the individual debtor at EUR 12,500, increasing by EUR 8,500 for the wife and by EUR 5,000 for all dependent family members, reaching EUR 36,000 for a total family income. It should also be noted that there are no exceptions to the regulation for those with a secondary residence and generally rest of the family property, provided that it is of an objective value of up to EUR 80,000. Third eligibility criterion is the balance of the loan per creditor not to exceed EUR 130,000. It should be noted that special care has been taken to protect dwellings that are pre-indicated or mortgaged for loans to a Swiss franc, which is the first political move that this government dares to resolve this chronic and critical economic and social issue. Finally, a provision aimed at preventing the creation of a new wave of strategic malpractices, which will seek to ‘red’ their loans in order to benefit from that legislative framework. In fact, special mention should be made of the new law as regards the definition of a minimum amount of up to EUR 15 000 for all deposits of financial products or precious metals for each family, in order to act as a shield against the poor payers, who, while having used usable movable property, choose to act fraudulently not only on their creditors but on their own, but also on the social whole, which has been charged to continuously herdings of their income in order to maintain such behaviour. Settlement of the debts of the applicant and the rescue of his residence is now carried out in an automated manner and thus at no cost through the online platform of the Private Debt Management Secretariat. This platform enables each of our fellow citizens to avoid unnecessary mental suffering and economic extermination in court halls to prove the self-proof, i.e. that he is unable to secure a living for himself and his family because of the long and deep economic crisis that has hit our country and thus unable to repay his bank debts. The new law unloads the courts from an unthinkable volume of cases, in essence only holds them the role of supervisor, thus upgrading their functioning. Thus, the court of the applicant's place of residence is responsible for verifying proper compliance with the law and the protection of citizens against abuses and mistrustful behaviours of banks which will refuse to regulate their debts, threatening them with the tom blockage of the auctioning of their main residence. Finally, and more importantly of all, it is the basic principle governing this law, which consists in not taking any banker more than is entitled and a measure to control the legitimate interest of bankers is the undeniably downgraded commercial value of the principal home of the rightholder. Anyone who joins the arrangement will protect the principal residence of paying only 120% of its commercial value, and these changes will take place in equal monthly instalments, which may extend to up to twenty-five years at a favourable rate equal to the quarter's Euribor, plus 2%. The new law does not aim to eliminate our vulnerable fellow citizens financially, but to provide them with real help. It is for this reason that public subsidies can be granted to the person entitled to the protection of the principal residence, under strict conditions. For this purpose, the Greek State's guaranteed loans were excluded from the law so that no double State aid could be granted and other strict security barriers were introduced. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] However, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, at this point, to point out the need for arrangements to reward consistent borrowers. You mentioned, Mr Flambury, yesterday in this House in the Committee on Production and Trade, which was discussed in the bill, so that banks would adopt practices to reduce their payments or interest rates or to return part of the interest to the borrowers concerned, for example, if any, because, on the one hand, it is a matter of justice for all those who serve their loans and are always the losers of the case and, on the other, a strong incentive for all borrowers to respect the terms of their loans. Finally, I will address another important issue resolved by this draft law, which concerns the phenomena that have emerged in recent years. Civil companies, particularly in the regions, with a very large number of members, the vast majority of whom have not participated in any form in the management and management of companies, are objectively responsible for all and in solidarity for acts and omissions of the members of the management of the company. In such a case, the introduction of a system of personal responsibility and for those who did not carry out administrative and management tasks obviously goes beyond what is necessary to safeguard the rights of the public. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] The proposed arrangement defines the liability of the urban partners to the amount of their corporate share value, provided that they acquired the corporate status before 11 April 2012. In addition, these partners should not in any way have participated in the management and management of the company. The proposed arrangement is expected to alleviate adverse effects that have been caused for the urban partners, particularly in the region, which were found to be contributors to corporate debts, despite the fact that they did not participate in the claim and management of a company, nor because they had a profit from their participation, nor were they much more aware of their relative effects and responsibilities from their inclusion in this form of business when they decided to set up or participate in that company.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u168	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u169	I shall conclude, Madam President, immediately. This regulation is in line with the caselaw of the Court of Justice of the European Union, in which a system of objective, solidarity and total liability of a third party for VAT return goes beyond what is necessary to safeguard the rights of the State and is contrary to the principle of proportionality. It is Decision C499/2010 of the Court of Justice of the European Union. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the Greek banks - which passed last year, the stress tests, and indeed just the day before yesterday, have been decommissioned by the ELA - are therefore very stable, without any question of their recapitalisation. However, I would like to point out that problems should be resolved on time, because, if they are not solved, new ones arise. Now I think it is time, after our country's exit from the memoranda, to give a breath of perspective to the stability of banks and to the security that banks need and to close this shameful story of red loans, which is left pending and those affected by the crisis, for whom there must be a definitive solution, but also the strategic poor payers, so as to stop creating further problems in the stability of the banks. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-six students and students, and five teachers from the Elementary School of Zipari on the island of Kos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Karathanasopoulos, let Mr. Papadopoulos speak and immediately after you have the floor. We will put two speakers and then a parliamentary representative or a Minister. Come on, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u171	I see that the Chamber is full again, I see PASOK being possible here this time, and it has come up against the amendment which it has taken down. Since we are all here and because of the sugar amendment - and my colleague denounced me the day before yesterday that I am responsible for the closure of the sugar factory and to apologize to the farmers - I would like to say a few figures because they have shut down the Sugar Industry and reached it here. It was the PASOK policies that you have reached this point with the quotas. They had reduced the sugar quotas. If you remember, we had two hundred and fifty thousand tons of sugar, which you made, not even fifty thousand tons. From self-sufficient we were, we became deficits. These are the achievements of PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u172	This was done in New Democracy in 2006.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u173	I have more. Wait, Mr. Jelloney, I have more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u174	I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u175	Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u176	We have more, after the next years since 2006 in the European Union and the New Democracy and the PASOK have literally sold the sugar quotas. 36% of the guaranteed minimum price was then decided, from 631 euros in 2006 and 2007, to 400 euros in tonnes. These are your policies. You reduced the Sugar Industry by 50%. You closed the two best factories in Larissa and Xanthi, in 2006 and 2007 and in 2008.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u177	That's... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Jeleigh, where do you think you are?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u179	You have seen 'first time left'. You're getting tough! It's all right, Mr. Jelloney.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u180	That's... (Not heard) [[Noise in the Chamber]] Say that out of here. Say the name if you dare!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Jelloney, go for some air. Go on out and get your ass together.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u182	We had thirty thousand farmers dealing with the Sugar Industry and cultivating four hundred thousand acres. And right now we can't grow the fifty thousand acres, Mr. Jelloney. These are your days and the works of PASOK. You're getting tough. You're getting tough. What to do, Mr. Jelloney, this party you had, that's what you did!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u183	Tell Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u184	You have come to this point, to blame us and to ask us to apologise for the Sugar Industry. And because I happen to be a customs producer, I want to tell you that many thousand of them have grown up in factories and have grown up. This industry, the huge food industry, you destroyed it and you reached this mess that it is and we're trying to save it. We'll see. Here we go. [[Noise - protests from the Wing of Democratic Independence]] You're nervous.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u185	I don't understand. What exactly are you pretending to be, Mr. Jeleigh? Please! Now you've been in the House for the first time?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u186	He mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u187	Calm down! Ask why you should say what you have to say. Your parliamentary representative will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u188	PASOK is here to iron us for the first time left. What are we gonna do, you're gonna hear them, because they're here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u189	Which Left, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right,
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u190	You'll speak more beautifully! What "but" etc.Huh? Madam President, please protect me. What's this now, is this PASOK scars? What's "but"? I have three figures, which have been said here about the loans. It has been said that they will address a hundred and fifty thousand borrowers who will enter this law. We have already seen from the information provided yesterday in committees that 70% of the people with red loans and first residence are involved. Secondly, it has been said that this sum - because the New Democracy said here that it is nothing - is about 11.5 billion, the money that all these people owe. A third element that I have kept from the committees, which were really decisive to understand exactly what was happening, is that about 70% of them will go into this arrangement, about 25% are strategic badgers and, for the first time, business loans are also in place. The government has provided for those who will not be able to repay, who are in bad condition, up to twenty-five years to pay for these people, so that they can have their first residence and stay inside. We have heard the new Republic's rapporteur here have brought information which is all fake, make news. Even here and in the committees he did the same thing, which reached the billions of so many and said that 'After you regulate five, what do you regulate? 5%, so you do nothing." If that is the case, make an amendment to your party's red loans, come and vote here, too, to regulate them. Why don't you bring in such an arrangement, so we can help you, too, so that you can be regular payers? You're bad payers. So, should you not say something today about red loans and we also have poor payers? However, Minister, I think that if they bring such an amendment, the government must see it very seriously, to help the New Democracy party! In closing, you cannot digest here that the "first time left" solves issues and everyone expects the elections. Let me say a prediction from this Step: 2019 will have many elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u191	Come on, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u192	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u193	Oh, no. Did he refer to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u194	You yourself told me to ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u195	Oh, no. Did I say personal? What personal, Mr. Comrade? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u196	He mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u197	Will the parties now respond to the criticisms? Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u198	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u199	No, there's no way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u200	Fear what I'm about to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u201	You have already spent a lot of time with your speeches. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, sixty students and students and five teachers from the 1st Municipal School of Pylea Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them to Athens and the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Madam President. The draft law we are discussing is nothing more than yet a link in the chain of business environment improvement, namely to support even more the needs of business groups, such as, for example, the changes that you make to development law, the issues of patents and patents. Of course, you're not just stopping there. Already Mr. Drasakis here, from this step forward, said that new bills are coming this morning, such as the bill to support new scandalous - and provocatively, we are saying - the privileges for strategic investments, the creation of a development bank to support precisely the investment needs of the monopolistic groups. There is a new bill that will substantially adapt the Public Investment Programme on a long-term basis rather than on an annual basis and this will be based on the service of your development, as you say, a model. In other words, you are undermining not only the European programmes, but also the Public Investment Programme in meeting the needs of business groups. In other words, you are saying very clearly that you are transferring all these projects and infrastructures which are projects and protection infrastructures, either of human life or of improving the position of the people's families, because it is precisely your priority that we should develop the investment projects of business groups and the Public Investment Programme. In other words, the government provides you with land and water so that the wheel of capitalist development can flow. Only it is a wheel that breaks labour rights, breaks the satisfaction of people's needs in the altar of safeguarding and armoring capitalist profitability. Because there can be no fair growth in capitalism. That's a genius. It is a classic nature of growth in capitalism. What does it mean? It exacerbates social inequality and exacerbates them precisely by concentrating the wealth produced in less and less hands. See what's going on globally. How much does 1% of the richest population on the planet own? It holds 80% of the world's wealth. From this point of view, on the one hand, you concentrate wealth on less hands and, on the other, drive the wide popular layers either in relative or in absolute impoverishment. For this very reason and as a complement to your development logic, it is precisely the various charity measures, such as the minimum guaranteed income, which you tell the world, the workers, "see, learn to live with the crumbs", which is nothing more on substance than an attempt to redistribute poverty, so that the less poor people pay for the poorest. You are, in other words, showing yourself to the best political servants of the monopolistic groups. This is also what your amendment to protect first homes in relation to red loans is. You are trying to present your amendment on red loans as an amendment that so much as protects borrowers. Does that really have anything to do with reality? Of course, the amendment you are bringing is the result of a compromise with lenders. Only this makes the claim you said a few months ago that "we're done with the committees, we're done with supervision". Here's how it's confirmed, for example. With the threat that they will not give you 1 billion, you are bringing this amendment, which is another link at the sweater slash in terms of protecting people's housing. So, at the heart of all this debate with lenders, at the heart of all this effort you are making, it is not your agony about how people's housing will be protected, but how, through this process, you will even more shield the financial system, you will improve the capitalisation of the banks by exempting it from an important hardship, such as the case of the management of red loans. From this point of view, therefore, it is clear that you are even worsening the conditions for the integration of highly indebted households into the protection process. In other words, you're creating automatic cutters. And we've got to say: A prerequisite is first: An objective residence value of 250 thousand for natural persons and 175 000 for professionals. Second condition: The debt they have to repay, which is'red', is up to 130 000 and here is not only the loan. It is also interest that has been capitalised plus all other expenses. The third condition is, it says, that income should be specific for both a five-member family of up to 36 000. Assuming fourth condition: All assets must reach 80 thousand, i.e. if someone has inherited a house in the village and has a car and a farm and something else possibly, then all of this together exceeds 80 thousand. It is by hand lost on the substance. It's not just that, but you've got other conditions. Deposits and aggregation of securities up to 15 000. And what do you say as the last condition? You say that it will voluntarily have to resign from tax and banking secrets up to five years back, i.e. the years of the crisis, the years that have taken place, to see its assets five years ago, as if they were the same as today. And here come estimates and they say it's about a hundred and fifty thousand. How do they know? Do they know five years before the assets and make these estimates? They know cumulatively how it affects all these criteria, because, if a criterion does not cover it, you go out automatically and may in all the next one be in a much worse position, as long as a criterion is not to cover, and if you have a house worth 80 grand and you owe 50 thousand to the banks. He's throwing you out because they're acting cumulatively all those criteria if nobody has it. Of course, you bring this abolition not only in terms of the past, but also in terms of the future, that is, if your economic situation improves a little, you will come out of regulation. That's what you're doing. Of course, you don't stop here, but what do you think? That you'll pay back 120% of the objective value, and on a basis of twenty-five years later. What does that mean, twenty-five years later? That this will not be offloaded, but will be at an Euribor interest rate plus 2%. On the substance of these twenty-five years the banks will have taken the loan two and three times back again and will continue to owe. So you have him constantly hostage to the banks and, of course, any haircut, if there is to be, will be, since he has repaid all the regulation debt. Of course, you are going through indirect reinforcement of the banks by subsidising doses, state dosing subsidies, and on the other hand, you put the knife in the neck. What are you telling him? If something happens, if there's an accident, brother, and you can't pay your doses, it throws you out of the system and everything you've given is lost and we're back to the old ones. What do you actually tell him about the knife in the neck? Choose: Or you will continue to pay the bank or else you will, for example, have to stop your child studying, or not meet your other needs. Let go of the taxi. You tell him to make a choice. And all this, when it owes both taxpayers and insurance funds and, of course, power is only for a year. What, in fact, is the aim of the amendment you are proposing? It is to force the highly indebted people to repay as much of their income to the banks as possible. In other words, this is a new attempt to support bank capital at the expense of people's rights. Why are you doing this? Because there is a very big contradiction. What is the contradiction? That the part of the capital invested in real estate has the following dead end today: If he goes to make massive seizures and auctions, then the value of the properties will fall. So, in other words, he's gonna get tired of this fund he's invested. And in that very contradiction you say that the banks will not pay the depreciation of this capital because of the crisis, but the people will pay it. Because the real problem you have to solve is who will pay again the broken-up capitalist crisis, which has reappointed the populace houses, as well as the loans given for housing. And you say, 'The people will pay again'. The new project you bring is even more effective than the Katseli law to force the people's family and borrowers to pay. Because you say to him, "One way or another way, your house enters the auction." Increasingly tighten the nipple to the highly indebted people's households. The aim of the amendment is to force them, with the threat of confiscation, to pay as much as possible weaker strata and in parallel to the various criteria that you have established that banks should proceed to confiscations of those real estates that are of interest to them. The electronic platform means that in a very short time each local household will be in front of a great dilemma: or you accept the agreement we suggest if you want to keep your home, or otherwise you have lost it. Because even recourse to justice makes it increasingly difficult, increasingly uncertain for the people's households. As long as you are beaten to present the black - white, no protection against auctioning is provided for in this amendment. And here we challenge you to accept the amendment we tabled as a JRC, which specifically provides for the ban on the auctioning of all first homes, of all people's dwellings of a specific value of EUR 250 000, increased for every child, up to EUR 150 000, and up to EUR 150 000. We challenge you to vote if you really want to protect the first popular residence. It's a chance, but you won't. Why? What is the main issue? It's that someone always has to pay. And here Mr Drasakis told us from the Step, addressing the JRC: 'What do you want to do?' We say very clearly: instead of paying the people once again, the banks pay. Instead of paying for once again the highly indebted people's households, the banks and the big capital. You say: To pay the people and at the same time prepare for about 100 thousand seizures in the next period, as it has been written. And we tell you now clearly, that the KIC forces will continue racing into front, organizing the people, so that no homes of a people's family can pass into the hands of a banker. And here - and I conclude with this, Madam President, in thirty seconds' time - you reveal that your system, the capitalist system, cannot solve the problems of workers. On the contrary, it makes them worse. And the popular roof is a revealing example. So dwelling in capitalism is not a right, it is a commodity. It is often acquired with very large deprivations for the people's family and in the years of capitalist development thousands of people's households have been driven to bank lending and today they cannot respond. Today, self-residential retreats. Hundreds of thousands of popular households cannot even pay their rent, which comes at 30% -40% of their income. Hundreds of thousands of households cannot pay their loan and millions of people are forced to live under poor conditions, without heating or without electricity or under poor hygiene conditions. Whatever side anyone looks at, they'll see the same situation. Capitalism in Greece 2019, with two hundred and fifty thousand unleavened homes, fails to meet the basic needs of the people's family. The needs of workers are shattered under the dwelling of goods by capitalist profits, bank and construction groups. That's exactly the opponent we're targeting as a JRC, because we're saying that this misery that capitalism condemns and you, as the employee's politician, are not a one-way street. There is another way at the centre of meeting people's needs and it will be able to guarantee the right to housing and spatial planning, based on the fulfilment of people's needs, to go ahead with the reform of towns and the establishment of necessary infrastructures to protect against natural disasters. This is therefore the radically different path of the development of the working people's power. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u203	Minister Euclidis Tsakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one question, so that we can reach agreement and discuss and exchange views. What criteria do you propose and what criteria do we propose for returning to normality? We have to decide beforehand. We cannot decide it in retrospect. We have to have some rules, we have to have a conversation and say that if it becomes the alpha, the beta, the gamma, the delta, we have a return to normality, we have or have not come out of the memorandum. However, this debate, in which a criterion is laid down every time by the opposition, is covered by this criterion and then another criterion cannot be pursued. It does not help you, it does not help us and it does not help the Greek people to understand, at last, what happens. You set the criterion that we won't get out of the Memorandum. Everyone now says we're out of the Memorandum, except for the Opposition. The banks say so, the international organisations say so, the Member States say so, the right ones say so. Then there was the criterion for getting something for the debt. We got something about the debt. Then there was the criterion of reducing pensions. Pensions aren't reduced. Then there was the criterion if we'll get back to the markets. We returned to the markets twice and returned with a ten-year bond. Where is the criterion that we teach our students about what regularity is? I mean, if the markets are ready to borrow you for ten years, that means that the market trusts that she'll get her money in ten years. So you've returned to normality. Mr Karathanasopoulos has set another criterion, more stringent, namely who will pay for the 'broken' of the crisis. It's a serious criterion. It may not only be for this bill, but it is a serious criterion. That is, it is the government that has increased the minimum wage, returned the collective agreements, taken the first steps towards a serious social state in housing, education. It is a government that says that, coming out of the crisis, it should be possible for those who have suffered most to see their faces grow. They paid more to the recession, but people will continue to vote right and right if they realize that during the growth period they will not be able to see her face. That's a criterion too. Now we're going to another criterion, which has something to do with this bill. Do there need to be a real estate market, a house market? Can someone from KINAL or the KIC tell me: "We don't want to buy at all. We don't want this market. We want social housing to be available and, slowly, to reduce the market share.' You said, too, Mr. Karathanasopulou, that capitalism is a commodity and it's not a right. That's a place. I don't know if KINAL supports this, because Mr. Koutsoukos in his own speech tried to build a record that PASOK is the left party, left over from SYRIZA and right from SYRIZA and New Democracy. I hope you have something better for the elections, because your ability to convince the world that you are more left than SYRIZA is just as likely that I can convince the mandarins of China that I am more sloppier than they are, the mandarins. There's something else you need to think about. That's not an argument. So there's a market for homes. This market can be divided into two cases. There is the market in normality, when conditions are generally normal, and the market when we are out of normality, when we have a huge recession, for example. Generally, in normality, if I make a deal with my partner Nikos that he will give me 50,000 euros to build a house, Nikos is waiting - how much more so the bank - that at some point he will get his money. No matter how much he likes me, no matter how much he likes me, he'll want back at 50,000 euros. So the normal housing market always has a risk. You get a loan, and at some point you have to pay it back. You have the chance at some point that you don't have to take that risk and lose it. That is why, in 2009, there were fifty-six thousand auctions and there was neither a movement from the KKE nor a movement from SYRIZA against these auctions, because it was a normal period, with growth, and the world knew that it could get a loan and, if it couldn't pay it back, it would have a problem. What happened in the crisis is that by the law of Katseli and as we changed it, we are not in regularity. It is a period when a world had a life plan that now cannot serve for other reasons, not because it has become a bad payer, not because it has decided that it does not care about paying, but because the circumstances have changed. And right, we can discuss whether the Katseli law was better or worse," if it could have been better the Katseli - Stathaki law, but it needed something and, slowly, we must return to normality. I return to Mr Karathanasopoulos's question. This law here is trying to do what Roosevelt did in the 1930s. Roosevelt in the 1930 ’ s made a law in the great recession of that moment in America, with which he said to share the cost between banks, borrowers and the state. That's what she does. In other words, in this bill, there is this basic concept, namely that to get out of the crisis and to go to normality, we must slowly share the cost with the state that gives the subsidy, with the banks that will lose money with the facilities they make - enough money, I can also tell you information if you ask - and the borrower himself. How else will it work, so that - I imagine that you and you of PASOK support it - and new couples get new loans? Unless you say that you don't care about this again, that a new couple will never get a loan so he can survive. I hear what Mr Mitsotakis said that what we are doing and you did is not in any way award - I do not know if he said so with the words I say it - the borrowers who have always respected their obligations. I can hear it. There's an injustice. I must tell you, however - to discuss what we can do about what I hear - that all these systems, from Roosevelt to yours and ours, have an injustice for people who are well-paid. They're in their nature. Just not helping those people who have a problem will create such bad economic conditions that will come to the belligerents. I hear it's a problem. Now, what's this bill doing? This bill actually has two pillars. One pillar is in the old law of Katseli with the protection of first residence. The second pillar is in a new approach to reducing red loans. This is an approach that we have, an intervention, better say, within many of the speeches we have recently made to reduce red loans. Let's talk, first, if it's a good target. I imagine that even the JRC says that the objective of reducing red loans is right, because there is no approach to new loans without solving the problems of red loans. That is why we have done the extrajudicial, which is why we have made new interventions for bankruptcy, so we have presented as the Ministry of Finance the draft bank guarantees to help, which is currently in the Competition Directorate of the Commission. That is why we are discussing the proposal of the Governor of the Bank of Greece, which, in any case, may also help. I have this proposal and we are studying it to go to the Competition Directorate as well. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm going to need some more time, Madam President. All these things are done to help the banks to reduce red loans. And, of course, banks do their own interventions. However, because this bill has two legs, two pillars, as I said, we had to negotiate with the four institutions, because the continuation of the Katseli pillar was within the Memorandum of Understanding. I would like to tell you that, in fact, while we are negotiating with four institutions, we are actually committed to six, because the two of the four institutions have two hats. In other words, the Commission has a hat that comes here and negotiates with us for the memorial surveillance and has another hat, which is the Competition Directorate, where the subsidy we give to borrowers must not be State aid. And the European Central Bank has two hats. It has the hat that comes as the European Central Bank, part of the four institutions that negotiate with us and has the SSM supervisor's hat, which has to monitor the stability of the financial system - not only for Greece - because the stability of the financial system in one country, as you can see, also affects stability in the other country. That's why we had to negotiate so long. It was not just the Memorandum and the Memorandum Period which is in Directive 472. Even if we were not in enhanced monitoring, the ECB and the SSM have a role in the countries to see whether these State interventions help or do not help financial stability. So we have a law that at some point improves the situation. It is a law that is far more in favour of equality than the Cypriot law, which was horizontal. It is a law which, for the first time, has instruments and entrepreneurs as natural persons and entrepreneurs who have business loans with a pledge to the first residence and, of course, has the contribution of the state. What was the problem with SSM, and what is it about any red loan reduction strategy, whether it is that we are discussing today or the guarantee system that I have submitted to the Competition Directorate? All the systems, but all - what we do, what they do in Italy, what any country has a problem with red loans - has a risk. The good news is that the risk of our project, what we are presenting now, does not affect the banks' capital adequacy. Despite everything that has been heard about the banks, I would remind you that the Greek banks have capital adequacy, they pass the stress tests, they catch the red loan reduction targets they have every year by the SSM and are in a much better situation. So SSM tells us that this law does not affect capital adequacy, but we have a stress, because we will need predictions in a scenario unfavourable. In other words, if things don't work out, banks will have to make other provisions. And that was the debate last week, how can - it says - SSM and ECB limit the perimeter, which would have been and not be in memorial surveillance, so that there can be sure that there will be no great risk of further predictions. That is why I have to tell you that there will be a legislative improvement that changes a number in particular, which will come in a little bit, which limits the perimeter only for operational loans. It does not affect a lot of people, but it is important and after that we also have the green light and from the ECB - I repeat - the European Central Bank with the SSM hat. I am returning - and I am sorry, Madam President - with my last sentence, from where I started. I want us to have a serious debate on the criteria of regularity: that we are making this bill, that we have a project that divides costs between the state, the borrower and the banks is a step back to normality. That it will not affect even the capital adequacy of our aid to the world to repay its debt is a criterion of return to normality. That now with the agreement we have with the ECB on the forecasts that banks will need, it is a criterion of returning to normality. I hope that now that we have resolved this, you can tell us the new criterion so that you can say that we have returned to normality, that you say that we have left the memorandum. But let us say it in advance and let us not play games and every little bit and find a new criterion because the SYRIZA Government has failed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u205	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Drasakis and then to Mr Giannakides for legislative improvements. Please listen to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u206	What we have just heard from the Minister of Finance, namely, to ensure, firstly, that the State grant is not contrary to State aid and to ensure the green light in any case, requires two legal changes to the amendment. I read the first one, which will be shared later, and you will see it. In the first subparagraph of paragraph 1, the words ‘or EUR 100,000 per creditor’ shall be added after the words ‘not exceeding EUR 13 000 per creditor’ if these debts include business loans’. As far as business loans are concerned, therefore, the threshold is at EUR 100,000. The rest remains at 130,000 euros. And it's true that the flexibility I said remains...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u207	You're limiting it further, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u208	Yeah, for dealers, for business loans. From 130,000 euros to 100,000 euros. Of course it remains - and it is in law too - that this is when the application is made. I mean, if anyone has an alpha loan high, but make sure before applying to reduce it, he can do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u209	Then it will be kept up to date, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u210	Not all of it. I've got 150,000 euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u211	A party will be made aware of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u212	I've got 120,000 euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u213	I mean, if we go from 150,000 to 50,000, it won't be considered...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u214	Possibly yes. Mr. Dendas, I'm trying to find windows, glimpse, so the hundreds of beneficiaries become one. You're the one who's snobbing this and you think it's a detail. But let me finish. In any case, what I am saying is part of the information we had just before the Minister responsible, who, like all of us - and the government - feels that, in order to ensure - the conditions for moving forward not only this project but also other aspects of our course, we are proposing to this House these legislative changes, not by desire, but by necessity. The second legislative improvement concerns Article 70. in paragraph 2, the words ‘reported commercial value’ are added ‘as recorded in the accounts of the credit institution’. At the end of paragraph 2, a subparagraph shall be added as follows: ‘The applicant may demonstrate that the commercial value of his principal residence differs from that recorded in the accounts of the creditors, in which case the amount referred to in Article 75(1) shall be determined on the basis of the demonstrated commercial value’. That was discussed in committee yesterday. So we start with the valuation that's in the bank books and the applicant, if it proves, in any legal way that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u215	Crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u216	It accounts for commercial value as it is in books today...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u217	Every year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u218	Banks shall not adjust each year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u219	Well, these are the two legislative improvements to the amendment. As far as the main bill is concerned, there is a long set of legislative improvements. Most are, in fact, technical improvements. I retain one - two remarks made by the parties' rapporteurs and have some political significance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u220	Article 40?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u221	In Article 40, the second paragraph requested by Mr Constantinople is withdrawn. It's the ninth improvement. Article 40(2) shall be deleted. There is still a legislative improvement. At the end of paragraph 1 of Article 27 added by Article 29(1) of the draft law, the words ‘ancillary committees’ shall be added after the words ‘but it is sufficient to post the programme’. I think there has been an observation. You'll see more. Please read them. Now that I do not have to take the floor again, as far as the Members' amendments are concerned, the following amendments are accepted: The 2048/45 with the addition of the word 'classification' after the word 'graduation' - which concerns the workers in the Sugar Industry - and Amendment No 2051/46 concerning sports companies. Amendment No 2056/51 on outdoor trade is also accepted. I think there is some sort of government that Mr Giannakides will be presenting later. Now the amendments which are not accepted are the figures. 2052/47, 2058/53 2061/56, 2066/61 and 2067/62. I would like to make one comment about the last two amendments, which are from Mr Kammenos Dimitrios, because one amendment calls for the borrower whose loan the bank is going to sell, to be able to buy it. This is an issue that requires discussion before we come to see how and how it can be legislated. In this sense we propose to be kept and to see it along the way. We will have the opportunity to have such discussions and regulations. The second is in response to what I said yesterday, regarding the reward of consistent borrowers. It makes a proposal which, however, escapes the framework of the bill. In other words, it proposes that, as far as the borrower is concerned, part of his interest should be regarded as expenditure and that he should be exempted from his tax declaration. So here we go to the Treasury. He wants another kind of discussion. I should like to make it clear to you that I do not regard this as a conflict - because I see some articles - or communication artifacts. I repeat the story of the issue: in the CSYP in 2016, we were concerned about the issue. We agree that there must be some kind of reward for consistent borrowers. It is a question of whether we will legally define, impose on the banks the kind and the form of the reward or leave it wider. I explained that the Deposit Fund responded positively and returned 20% of interest to the consistent borrowers. We then heard, we read Mr Mitsotakis' statement after a meeting with bankers who raised the matter. I think it is a good thing. In this sense, therefore, I say that if there is a full agreement between the parties, there will be an initiative to establish a regulation which will respond to this issue. We are not ready today. We will have time to respond to this in the process. I repeat that the subject to be discussed is the form. That is to say, whether we define the form or the form of a framework and a bank can say, 'I return some of the interest' or 'I give an opportunity to the consistent borrower', 'I give him a privileged service in other matters' or anything else. I personally consider this open, interesting and since we agree on this, we can find a solution later on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u222	Madam President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u223	Ask Legislative? Make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, you have tabled an amendment No 2062/57, in which you say: 'The paragraph 6 of Article 56 of the draft law...'. I mean, you're bringing an amendment and you're replacing...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u225	Is that between the ones I read before?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u226	You write it down. Paragraph 6 of Article 56 of the draft law replaces it as follows...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u227	What did you say the number?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u228	You filed her a while ago. I don't know if he was in what you mentioned. You've filed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u229	Say the number again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u230	It is Amendment No 2062/57.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u231	I did not talk about this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u232	Let me ask you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u233	But I don't even have her in mind. So we don't adopt it...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u234	You signed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u235	We'll see her later. It's a ministerial amendment. I have now referred to the Members of the European Parliament. Madam President, I am tabling the legislative improvements I mentioned to share.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u237	Thirty seconds, I'd like to. I would like to clarify that you are not right in what you said, Mr Tindemans. It happens every year and the evidence sends them to the SSM so he can check it out. Otherwise, SSM couldn't do his job. I want to answer another question that was asked before, if this bill is just one, whether it will be once and end. We believe that the only way to convince ourselves that we are returning - another criterion, that is to say, regularity - is to be one-off and has a expiry date. It couldn't have been different. Otherwise we tell the Greek people that we will never return to normality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Giannakides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Madam President. I shall refer to the amendment with general number 2063 and specific number 58. It concerns the granting of exceptional one-off aid in the form of an allowance to natural or legal persons residing in or using as a professional housing property affected by the earthquake of 26 October and affected areas of the regional unit of Zakynthos. They are natural or legal persons who have resided or used as a professional roof the three hundred affected buildings. In view of the social nature of the provision, the allowance shall not be confiscated or offset by dues from the beneficiaries to the tax administration and the rest of the State, the insurance funds and credit institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u240	Now it's Mr. Loverd's time. I'm sorry, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u241	Madam President, when do we finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u242	We don't have a schedule. We still have many speakers, we also have parliamentarians and we have a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u243	Is it official?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u244	There's a proposal. If PASOK insists, it needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u245	We haven't testified yet. We'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u246	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Madam President. Before I say what I have organised to say, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with two issues that are not serious. I heard how he contradicted the criticism of the PASOK, the Change Movement, in this draft law by Mr Koutsoukos, say, and how he opposed the criticism of the Communist Party in the same draft law by Mr Tsakalotos, speaking from the point of view of a reasonable approach to markets and the problem. In the context of this lack of seriousness, I would like to read a statement that our parliamentary group sent to me a moment ago: in 2011, in the 'indignant square' - there is video - the Minister says: 'We need to hit the financial markets now. Now we can break up the European Union that thinks it has the solution, as Janis Varoufakis very much analysed." I close with Mr Tsakalotou's reasonable intervention. I'm going to a second non-serious matter. Mr Vice-President of the Government, what Mr Constantinople said to you - it is true that I had not seen it - is that with an amendment, which you are bringing the first signature...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u248	We're looking at it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u249	... you are making a change to this draft law with an amendment to Article 56(6), which you are replacing in a way - as my colleague pointed out to me - so that in the Chambers, for the purpose of carrying out certain posts, you are bypassing the APRC. That is the amendment. That's why my colleague asked you. First signature is yours. That's not serious. And that's not serious! In that sense we expect you to give an explanation. Madam President, as a parliamentary representative, I would like to make two other things than, let us say, our close agenda, comments. We had the information today, which comes from the side of Skopje, that in a television conversation with the Chief of Anti-Population, the Prime Minister of the country spoke about the profit of his country that took the Macedonian identity and named "North Macedonia" and that Mr. Tsipras had accepted the name "Macedonia of Iliden" which the Greek Opposition finally prevented him from agreeing with it. The second issue, Madam President - and I would like you to listen to me as a legal person - is my last experience of the last two weeks, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr Flynn, who have been here. Wherever I go by exercising my legal duties, the prosecutors I meet tell me one thing: "Give us a deadline to submit proposals for changes to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure". I urge that, at last, we finish with the Civilian Law 1608, which the Minister for Justice rightly took the courage to bring to Parliament the work of the Legislative Committee. From there, however, the draft law has so many imperfections that people really have been asking for months to be able to tell you their views. They ask for these courageous provisions to be put to the vote on their own and for you to take a long deadline for the rest of the draft law. Because the arrangements which I am told - I read the announcements, but I hear the prosecutors - are tragic. It takes a lot of work to get the specific code that, as you know, when it comes, is 'whether we take it or leave it'. We don't have the right to make changes. Now let's get to the point. I'm watching it without being an expert, as much as I can, trying to understand. Recently, and what I haven't heard. I have heard from government officials and MPs - not the present - that, "We are not listening to anyone", "We have come out of the memoranda, we will do what we choose as a solution" - for the red loans I am talking about - that "our first concern is the protection of people who are untapped", that "We are not old, we are not before 2015, we have also adapted to the spectrum we have is banks, because it is part of the national economy, if they are paralyzed, the economy is paralyzed and the privates are affected." We are therefore listening to all this and ultimately we end up with a draft law which does not balance between the two very great needs of the subject. Because it is not a question of red loans. It's a title. It's two issues, two issues in osmosis. They are creating a subject, but they have two very large and serious for the national economy and the citizens. One side is the banks. There's no country without a banking system. It cannot allow a country in its banks to collapse because its economy is falling apart and the citizens are falling apart. The second is the undignified, that is to say the ones who have a first residence issue. These two issues must be resolved by legislative intervention. And we're not done. I record the great titles, because there are also hypotheses that are critical and very serious. What is the framework within which a solution was to be found? First of all, the Council of State gives it to us within the framework of our Constitution. Since 2017, it tells us that auctions can, of course, take place - Mr Chakalotos rightly said - but with the guarantees provided by the legislation. It is a decision of the Court of Justice of 2017. The European Central Bank's opinion makes the solutions chosen not to lead to a general debt relief without taking into account the ability to repay debtors and the ability to absorb the losses of banks, to produce a culture of timely payments and to restore the relative moral risks, to aim to minimise the risks of abuse - obviously - and to preserve financial stability and the credibility of credit institutions. There's the frame. But behold, the crisis - 2010 - and our law, the law of PASOK, Law No.3869. We refer to him as the 'Katelis law'. It's not like that. It's a PASOK law, because there are critical dimensions of it. You don't know them. Not applicable. When Mr Kegeroglou took office at the Ministry of Labour and with the encouragement of the man who wrote this draft law, Mr Spyrakou, who must be mentioned, with a ministerial decision by Vassilis Kegeroglou, the implementation began. That's the story inside the box. Over the years, situations are improving, worsening with the semester of Tsipras - Varoufakis. Problem. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who is not aware that the problem that today is before us is a problem relating to resources, with money, does not know what he is saying. You did not know what you were saying when you opposed previous governments and did not know what you were saying in previous years! The question of money we are talking about, money by the state, resources by the state to solve the problems, to intervene on the issue of red loans, funds by banks, deposits, the State in a surplus crisis, banks with a capital withdrawal from 2015 - the critical and sad period - which the individuals who, from the figures, have not been able to cope with in recent years have not been able to cope with. That's a very complicated problem. That's a very serious problem. Resource problem, but with two capital dimensions and not just. With sub-headings, as I said just now, which is very useful. First sub-chapter: Is this a debtor or a guarantor of debt? Are you responding to this draft law? I want a majority colleague to give the answer here. There are guarantees guaranteed before the crisis, with the crisis they have been in a very difficult position, and we of Minority need to understand if you are making a relevant intervention that sees the difference. I don't understand. Secondly, 'State bad-payer'. It is a phrase I have heard for years from all the Prime Ministers who have been through the time of the crisis and from the latter. "State bad-payer," the "battery" as various people have said. Are we limiting him? Are we squeezing him? That's a problem. It is about a fairly serious percentage of red loans. How do we limit its demagogic action? With what measures of the draft law? Has a majority colleague been placed in addition to the reference to the title of the matter? But we're not done. A small and large debtor problem in an issue that has two subdivisions again. First, the person having a housing loan, second, the person having a business loan with a mortgage, with a guarantee of his first residence. And even further distinction: First residence or exclusive residence? Is that why you've intervened? Mr Constantinople and Mr Karras - Mr Constantinople with a sufficient degree, Mr Karras with his statements and his speech today - tell you that even the 130,000 limit is not true. Things are as follows, because we have both the interest and the costs of executing a four-year period. Approximately EUR 90,000 is your limit. So everything you promised, get it back. The need for balance, you don't need it. The resolution of the problem is photographed in the draft law one-sided. I'm not saying good or bad in relation to one side. I know there's a chance that the troika will tell you yes. I know, I asked, I was informed before I came here - not to talk about things that I am not an expert about - that there is consent on the part of the Central Bank too, that it is in the right direction. So one thing you might be doing is going well. The other one you've abandoned. And despite the fact that in subsections of the draft law you give the title - the first title - ‘How will we protect the one in need?’, your draft law is completely out of this context. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I have a final point of law. This legality, however, concerns the provisions that are sensitive. You say this: We will be able to help with arrangements by exploiting - Article 71 - the platform. The request will be made - Article 72 - and there will be - Article 76 and contribution. All three articles contain powers with very problematic constitutional content. These provisions are at stake, the draft law is at risk in the field that we are pro-famous, to the absolute few you provide, to be involved in adventures in relation to your authorisation. Two remarks at this point. One is the one Mr. Constantinople made you. He told you that in this case, you are doing so through ministerial decisions. The second, what the Scientific Service of the Parliament tells you is that you are giving the wrong authorisation. So you have a problem where you're going to do good. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say that we are making a negative criticism. We're not going to vote. We have tabled our own proposal for two years, which we had at the outset - as long as we had not worked on it - and in so far as the needs of the issue were concerned, its imperfections, but as long as the time passed not only did we process it, but the institutions of the country came to confirm it. Our proposal was about the need to accumulate red loans in one, as we said at first - and the term - 'bad bank' was also naive. We then gave the character of a legal person, who would bear the burden, of course, with the contribution of the public. As the dialogue was held on the sidewalk or the canal halls, it didn't make much sense. But when our Central Bank made its own proposal, we have seen that there is too much room for our proposal - if it were accepted - to be the basis for a process that would lead to a better solution, in the sense of the two needs being shared. There has been no such dialogue. We haven't heard. The proposal that this House has before it today is a one-sided proposal in relation to its objectives. In that sense we shall vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u250	Thank you. Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u251	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law refers to issues relating to the development field in such a way as to form elements of the new production model that is being sought and promoted, for example, intellectual property, patents, business parks, strengthening of innovation, joint service units, etc. However, because time is limited, I shall also refer to the amendment to protect the first home. Ladies and gentlemen, red loans are a bronze for the Greek economy because they are suffocating to borrowers and banks. The borrowers are at the constant risk of being placed - or are being - out of economic activity and social life, and the banks are unable to carry out their mission, i.e. to donate the Greek economy and, from time to time, they are charged with the public debt and ultimately the Greek people. The problem was raised by the economic crisis, bankruptcy, the memorandumary austerity policies and, as a result, the recession, GDP reduction, the closure of thousands of enterprises, the sharp rise in unemployment, the reduction or the disappearance of incomes. In this context, therefore, the problem concerns thousands of our fellow citizens. Unfortunately, it has not been dealt with in time by the previous governments, so that it has taken a great deal of time. The Government, despite the Memorandum of Understanding, has moved towards alleviating the adverse effects of the red loans on the protection of borrowers. So, ladies and gentlemen, society has been kept up. This draft law contains a number of provisions concerning the protection of first residence in an effective and social manner, despite the 'famous' pressures which do not take into account the social dimension of the issue. In addition to protecting the first, popular housing, the current bill also aims to reorganise bank portfolios from red loans. For the first time, with the new institutional framework, the first residence is protected not only for vulnerable borrowers who have been granted a housing loan but also for many professionals who have received a first home mortgage. The Katseli Act applies only to natural persons without bankruptcy. This is why there is only consensual adjustment of the debts to creditors or even the majority of them, within the framework of the extrajudicial arrangement mechanism. For the first time with the new institutional framework, it is proposed and planned to grant the instalment of loans for beneficiaries to be subject to the relevant provisions. In order for every natural person, regardless of his or her professional status to join the electronic platform, the conditions and criteria which constitute the core of protection are: the amount of outstanding debts must not exceed EUR 130,000 per creditor or EUR 100,000 in the case of a business loan, as revised by the legislative improvement that has just been submitted. The coverage relates to the first residence of an objective value of up to 250,000 euros for housing, repair, consumer loans and credit cards, while, respectively, for business loans with the addition of first house, the objective value of the property must be up to 175,000 euros. Furthermore, the existence, beyond the principal residence of immovable property or means of transport of the applicant does not prevent the applicant from making the application, provided that the objective value of the remaining real estate and means of transport does not exceed twice the total to be regulated, and in any event the sum of EUR 80,000. The new framework will pay up to 120% of the value of their main residence at a low interest rate and a period of time which can reach up to twenty-five years. There is also provision for the rate of settlement to be very low in terms of the Euribor quarter to be increased by 2%, so that the monthly dose is low. Furthermore, there is provision for the first time to grant the payments paid by the State for the entire duration of the arrangement, i.e. up to twenty-five years. The settlement procedure will be conducted by means of an electronic platform, and if no consensus is reached, the borrower shall be entitled to request the settlement of the debts of the borrower. As far as family income limits are concerned, they were shaped in such a way as to correspond to reasonable living costs, as determined by the Greek statistical office, plus 70%. Ladies and gentlemen, the regulation on the protection of first residence was a central priority for the SYRIZA Government. Let us not forget that, when the country was governed by SYRIZA, there was a legislative gap. There was no legislative coverage and therefore protection of the first residence of borrowers. Its validity until then had expired on 31-12-2014. The comparison made with the former scheme is therefore misleading as the former scheme did not apply, it was non-existent. Following the takeover by SYRIZA, an extension of the Katseli law and its evolution with the interventions of the Stathakis Act was achieved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Today the outstandingity is withdrawn by a regulation that protects the vast majority of borrowers with additional provision for business loans as well. One more thing. During the governance period of the previous governments, recapitalisations were made without care for the red loans that constitute a component of the recapitalisations and constituted one of these causes. Without the regulation of red loans, the banks were recapitalised and doomed to fail. In this context, people's homes were left unprotected. The previous governments that are both politically responsible and the private debt explosion to the banks between 2010 and 2014, I would say that they made this option not negligent. It was a strategic choice. It forms part of the lack of protection for the weak and vulnerable but also of the left-hand strategy that has not finally come out of them. Because the left-hand parentheses are over and, apparently, will also be extended to the next Parliament after the 2019 parliamentary elections. In conclusion, the current regulation is being promoted because, when negotiating with the banks and the ECB, the government was negotiated by the position of borrowers, that is to say, what the crisis led to a failure to respond to their debt obligations and not by the position of the banks. This is a social regulation. It has a strong social dimension without a doubt, but it also has a fiscal and banking dimension since it is part of the government's effort to promote the country's socially just productive reconstruction. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the best is the enemy of good. Perhaps the overall arrangement could also contain some other provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u252	Finish it, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u253	I shall conclude, Madam President. Excuse me. Since it has been said that the implementation of the bill will be judged in practice and may therefore require adjustments and additions, I would like to highlight three issues that need to be addressed. One is to protect the guarantors so that they don't stay dry. The second relates to a regulation on the consequent borrowers - the Minister, the Vice-President of the Government - and the third concerns the loans of the parties, the new Republic's red loans and the PASOK, which, in the context of the interlocutory triangle, have been borrowed with loans and unsettled loans. These, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, are serious issues, because someone who has previously made a point of not seriousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Katameros has the floor from SYRIZA. And please keep the time while we can. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I shall refer to two issues. Firstly, a comment on Rule 19 which I requested you to look at at at the first meeting of the committee. I didn't see anything about the legislature. Please see it at least at the last minute. It is about the retrospectiveness that we have to ensure in Article 19 that companies can be compensated for their damages and damages from the earthquake, which was not foreseen. While predicted to be compensated for all natural disasters - floods, landslides, everything - the earthquake has so far been excluded. While it has been over a year since we've been trying to pass this arrangement and now comes to this bill, it'll be a gift free if they don't make sure it's in place retrospectively. Since 2017 there have been at least three catastrophic earthquakes, as far as I know, in our country, from Lesvos, Kos and lately in the Ionian Sea, and I think they should be safeguarded. And it can be done explicitly either for a period of two years, for the last two years, or for the reasons given. And you know, these business allowances aren't for foregone profits. That is not the case, and we did not ask for it. It is for specific damages recorded by regional workshops and submitted to the Ministry. These are damages, such as a glass shop which has all broken or some real material damage suffered by certain businesses. The second point I wanted to make is the following. There was an interesting debate in committee yesterday. I wanted to stress and reintroduce the issue of the poaching attempted by New Democracy, in particular by Mrs Bakoyannis. Asks the representative of the Bank of Greece: "Tell me, since 86 billion in red loans, how much can they join this bill?" The representative of the Bank of Greece replied: "Around 10%". There was a different view, a divergence from the representative of the Banking Union. That's not the point. The point is that he tried to distribute a 10% of the amount of loans to 86 billion that they were set, to put it down and triumph that in this bill they would eventually be able to join so few, a 10%, so it's not worth it. Firstly, those who had left the first residence unprotected so far come to us as defenders of the weak and the first residence, etc. But in their efforts they reveal the opposite and I will tell you in a minute how they are in a completely different direction from the protection of the first home. Firstly, 86 billion is not about the red loans that have been linked to the first residence. It concerns all red loans. The bill relates to loans that have been mortgaged on first residence, and even, for the first time, it also puts business. The answer is, therefore, - and the representative of the Greek Banking Union also gave it - that those who are regulated and favoured, who have red loans from the first home, are over 70%. That's the reality. But what's going on? What did I say? Why did I tell you they were revealing? On the proposal, what's it revealed? As the New Democracy and its partners have generally done all these years in government, what have they done? What policy did they have? The few to get the lots. That's why the 10% Mrs. Bakoyannis wanted to present us. Because the rest of the loans that were many had been received by few, and indeed, we doubt that they will be returned. Loan and wild, because we know how they got them. Under mortgages "air", as was submitted to the House. That is their policy, as it was in development law. A lot of them took a few. That's our difference. In a completely different direction, it's us. We want to protect the many, while their policy again knows that this wants to serve, serve the few who will take the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u256	Ms Manolakou from the JRC has the floor, and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of the Centro Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u257	Why were red loans for people's households and self-employed? Because the policies of the governments of New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA in the name of the economic crisis and the memoranda have plunged wages, pensions, with constant cuts in health, welfare and education, reductions in government expenditure on pensions and insurance funds, reductions in local government's tax burdens, abolition of the EKT to low-wage pensioners, launching indirect taxes. Already in the period of January-February 2019, revenues from indirect taxation recorded by the state budget with the bloody primary surplus of EUR 822 million increased, while expenditure is significantly reduced. At the same time, we have measures to support capitalist profitability, such as the State subsidy of all employers' insurance contributions for young people up to twenty-five years, a reduction in corporate tax rate on business profits and much more. Therefore, you are providing overcompensation through further burdens on the people. That is your class orientation, and that is why you have the approval and support of the European semester procedure, namely the permanent anti-popular surveillance. The government's economic policy, like the former Republic of New Democracy, therefore helps capitalist profitability and reduce labour costs. Furthermore, as we have heard from the Minister of Finance, you have a driver, Roosevelt, who is glorified by the whole urban system, because in the time of the crisis it has sharply reduced the wages of the labour force, i.e. labour costs and ensured higher profitability for entrepreneurs. Besides, the masses and what he did at the time, you copy it so the world doesn't rise. Here the flexible forms of employment have doubled from 2013 to 2018, as well as the wages have fallen to the employees. This is evidenced by a study by the Bank of Greece, which is clearly mentioned and says that structural reforms in the labour market have enabled businesses to adapt both wage costs and employment from 2014 until today, meaning, of course, to the benefit of capitalist profitability. This is the pillar of your strategy, which you call 'development'. Therefore, in such circumstances and with such a tax attack, taxed and working relationships - elastic and unemployment approaching 20%, it is natural that they cannot repay loans that had been entered into in earlier times. This phenomenon was of a massive nature. So you come with this amendment to give a solution, which you call'regulatory' and a second pillar of your strategy, as Mr Drasakis said. But in what direction? By abolishing the minimum judicial protection left around the first residence of the people's households. It is clearly in the interests of banking groups and to the detriment of highly indebted people's households, as borrowers are exposed to bank blackmail in order to accept even worse conditions. Their logic is "or you join the arrangement and you pay the dose that the online platform approves on behalf of the banks or otherwise, your house is auctioned". But also in the event of joining the electronic platform, there will always be a condition that the borrower will be consistent and cooperative and with bloody economies that will pay off the dose. However, the stricter conditions exclude thousands of households, since the conditions are cumulative and not diabetic. However, those who have arranged in earlier years are in a more unfavourable position. This allows for extortion and auctioning, or is threatened at any time by an appeal or change of arrangement due to a change in their financial situation. Of course, you do not take this into account. Thus, urban space is concentrated in business groups to use it in other profitable uses. However, the subsidy from the government's propaganda government is in fact an indirect State subsidy to banking groups, ensuring that banks have significant amounts and profits for the years that will last. Do you mean that as a return to normality? But didn't you do the same with the shipowners? You are subsidising them with millions of euros supposedly for the barren lines, to serve remote islands, but also cocky tickets also have tax-free fuels for them. The Group of the European People's Party has tabled an amendment to this draft legislative amendment containing concrete measures to relieve the people's family from overcompensation. You have the opportunity to include these measures that we are proposing to drastically reduce the debts of the people's families to the banks, to which the burden of the crisis should be deferred. Specifically, we propose deletion of interest, remission of 50% of debt, debt freeze, suspension of payments, reduction of the debts of the UAE, poor farmers and fishermen, cessation of enforcement actions against the people's families and limitation of the mortgage to the level of the original loan. Of course, we are setting limits so that they are really small and medium-sized, low-income incomes which have a problem. So the question that Mr Tsakalots asked us "Who will pay?", we say that he will pay and tax him. In words, therefore, you are representing the philosophical government, but in practice you have a cut in the basic needs, such as the popular roof. With your policy, in addition to the enlargement of poverty, you will create with this piece of legislation and homelessness. This is the capitalist barbarism you are consistently serving and you consider impossible and utopia of any philosophical regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u258	Mr Saridis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u259	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of red loans and the protection of first residence requires and has been waiting to find a solution for many years. On the one hand, the previous governments and the New Democracy and the Movement of Change - former PASOK - could not, of course, solve this problem, as they were the ones that created it. Their own policies created this problem. On the other hand, the political starting point of today's government on this issue was that famous 'no house - it was heard here many times in this Chamber - in the hands of a banker's office, but sooner and later changed, after an unknown content of summer which lasted only seventeen hours and led to the 'democratic' deflection of the expressed will of the Greek people by means of the referendum, resulting in a disastrous memorandum for our country. Indeed, this disastrous memorandum was voted in favour of two hundred and twenty-five Members from five parliamentary parties, one of whom today is on the brink of the demographic collapse and two others who are no longer with us, because they do not have a parliamentary group. Then, of all this, and since the Greeks have heard all sorts of promises and have seen them collapse before their eyes, the government comes yesterday and suddenly tabled a late amendment claiming to have found a solution to the problem of red loans and that this solution which it found is a result of a compromise with banks and creditors. Before going on to comment on specific provisions of this amendment with a general number of 2057 and a special number 52, I would like to make the following general remarks: Firstly, we all admit in this Chamber that this amendment is not a solution for all Greeks, that is, it does not cover all Greek households, the Greek families, because it is only a part, a small percentage of our fellow citizens, which no one can define exactly. How many Greeks do you think, Minister Drasakis, that they really have the way to find what you say, so that they can join the regulation? You can't know that thing and you don't know it. Secondly, there is no clear way of identifying strategic malpractices. By kidnapping, we are approaching the case of notorious strategic malpractices. What does "strategic malpractice" mean? What is its definition and where this definition is written, so that we can read it, and be able to understand what everyone means when it comes to the expression'strategic misapter'? Strategic mispaid, for me, for the ordinary Greeks, for the Central Association, is the one who at the same time took his loan, at that time he had decided that he would never pay for it. That's the strategic bad-payer. The person who knew there is no way that the money would come back, that is, the one who intended it, when he took that loan, like - good time - Mr Stournara's partner. Did any announcement from the Central Bank come out on this matter? Or is that one of these matters where the silence of the people is the only answer the Greeks will get? We have also talked about other silences here today, not just that silence. You told us, Minister, how you could find the strategic bad payers, and I ask you when you're going to find them. Four years we've been closing. As long as you're looking to find the strategic malpractices - because that's your argument - some other people, who don't deserve it, suffer. Why haven't you found them so far? How do you expect that you will convince us that you will find them if it took you so many years to find part of what the bankers themselves have done and indeed those who hold responsibility for the Greek State? The excuse of strategic malpractices is hollow. It's a pretext. It's a fig sheet, if you want. Third and final general comment: The previous ongoing recapitalisations of Greek banks from Greek taxpayers' money have not succeeded in pushing away from the table the threat of a new recapitalisation. They didn't do that. Who do the banks belong to, Minister? Who do the Greeks pay every time you and the lenders, the government today, the governments and the other creditors - all the lenders within the Greek governments, whatever color these Greek governments may have - to recapitalise these systemic banks? Who are they paying for? Where's the money? Does it finally have a bottom of that barrel? Is there an end to all this? And I'm asking that, because this time we're making threats. And we will vote for blackmailers in this Chamber too. So you are bringing us an amendment which in itself is a whole bill, very complex and with many technical details, so that the devil can hide in there, which we cannot find and interpret. And you give us a few minutes to be able to place ourselves, without being able to add - and that is important - to this amendment or to remove anything, because it is a product of compromise with lenders, so any improvements to the opposition parties would want to bring into this amendment could not be accepted because they should have the agreement of the lenders. And all this at a time when we're outside the memorials. So what is the role of the Greek Parliament? What is the contribution of counter-population to the dialogue we are discussing? Where does it seem to have been heard the fair demands of all those who are fighting that after the elections the system of electronic auctions will start to function in a massive manner and in a short time the Greek Police will be called upon to dismantle the Greeks against the mission it has undertaken? The mission of the Greek Police is to protect Greek citizens. So we may have typically come out of the memos and something really has started to move in the area of the economy, but we must admit and admit that this amendment does not solve the problem, as you say, simply moves this problem in the future. The suffocating limits that you have put into it make an amendment concerning the few and not the many. Of course, it is those few who do not literally have fate in the sun. And that is why we in the Central Association will vote for it, even for the one who has no fate in the sun. For these people, then, we in the Central Association will vote for this amendment. However, this does not mean that the fight for the protection of first residence is over. On the contrary, its peak is soon, very soon, when the auctions will be released. And then, if the Greeks do not find protection from the Greek Parliament, they will seek to find protection on the streets, on the sidewalks, with what this may mean to preserve social cohesion and social peace. Before I go any further - although I do not see any time available to go into the analysis of the remaining amendments, because I spoke to you earlier and told you something about silence - I take the opportunity presented by the Stepma to a bill brought by Mr Drasakis to speak about a question that I had tabled on 37 July. And you know, from 30 July to today, we argue and the government gave too many answers. He gave for the exit from the memorials, for the Constitutional Review. He gave for the Skopje for the Prespecies Agreement. He gave for the social allowance, for the changes he has to bring. But for this question which I had asked Mr Drasakis since 30 July, there has been silence, as in many other things, and in the questions I have put to Mr Tsakalotos for the rest of the bill of the '75' contribution. Silence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President, and I will finish. Thank you very much. So what did that question say? This question said that, once we got out of the memorandum, we voted on the budget, we talked and argued about the scepticism, we entered that logic, the transition of claims from credit or financial institutions to claims management companies, loans and credit companies. On the basis of the existing legislation, which provides that the announcement of the transfer of the bank's claims to the companies will be made outside, both to the debtors and to the guarantors by all appropriate means. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Saridis Ioannis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same legislation also provides for an obligation for the issuer to initiate or continue with the conduct of the code of conduct with the borrower. However, in order for the borrower to have full knowledge of the transferred portfolio and in order to achieve the best possible negotiation with banks on its own side, it is considered to recognise at which price his loan was purchased from the issuer, so that he can know the trading margins. The question, therefore, which has not been answered - and I shall conclude by insisting that it has not been answered for six months, and it is good that the Minister should answer this question today, because if I do not receive a reply from Mr Drasakis today, I shall be forced tomorrow to put a timely question on this - is this: why is it not established in the context of the compulsory announcement to the borrower of the transfer of his loans from the banks to the management companies of loans and credit claims and the compulsory mention of the price at which his loans were transferred? Subsequently, the transfer or transfer of the bank's claim to management companies and acquisition companies come under the Bank's debt amortisation law, which is alienated from that claim and no longer retains any right. Why is it not, Minister, that the borrowers are not given fuller proof of the claim from the transferor bank? What for? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty-six students and students and three teachers from the 26th and 80th Municipal School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Karakosta has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u261	Good evening, everyone and everyone watching us today in the debate on this bill. "Syrian legislation" says Mr. Dendias. Of course it is a Syrian legislation, because in fact, with a completely different logic in how we legislate, we have started with various legislation in 2015 in facilitating low incomes and we are now moving towards facilitating and solving problems that are perpetuating whole years and not randomly. They perpetuate because the previous logic was to solve the problem of each individual operation. Today, in genuinely dealing with and seeking healthy entrepreneurship both in industry and in the craft industry. And seeing the unregulated construction and the unregulated placement of these business activities, we come to plan. And what do we suggest? Seeing, for example, that in Attica we have twenty-eight atypical industrial concentrations - think, twenty-eight atypical industrial gatherings - we are proposing to build craft areas and craft industries. For example, in the wider area of Oinofytas and Schemarios, where there are a thousand businesses, producing 35% of the industrial gross income of the country, we come and suggest some designs. We will all remember the many protests made to pollute the Apoupus river, I imagine no one has forgotten them and all because the waste of all these industries, this accumulation, has intervened in the watercourse, but also in drinking water. So we come here and do the following procedure: After cooperation between the Ministry of Economy and Development, the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Region of Central Greece, the Municipality of Tanagras and many local bodies, a comprehensive strategic intervention plan was established in the Oinofyta - Shamarios industrial area, which includes what? It includes the development of a business resolution park in this atypical industrial area, which is proposed to be implemented in several separate parts of the area, respectively in four phases. It is important, of course, that it is proposed to implement a central industrial waste treatment plant in the first phase. Also, the establishment of water supply and sewerage networks, new roads and environmental projects, such as public green and green areas around the boundaries of this area, an administrative centre hosted by the Environment Observatory and other such elements. We are optimistic about the area - because it can be a centre for economic development in the country, as well as a model of modern environmental management. The resources are provided by the NSRP 2014-2020, the national part of the Public Investment Programme and by the participation of the private sector. More generally, for the whole business parks, their development is strengthened by this bill, as the operators concerned are not obliged to establish a limited company before the investment is approved. This makes it easier - and this is very important - for OTAs and Chambers to set up public limited companies, but it is particularly facilitated by public bodies, whose participation in a public limited company requires a large administrative procedure and many controls today, which will be carried out in parallel with the examination of the investment authorisation. In other words, we remove pieces of bureaucracy and at the same time put into the play of investments and collectives. At technical level, there is also a 50% reduction in the current parking places required by law for the establishments, when they are in business parks - they are criteria for assistance, for firms to be integrated into these parks - and when the necessary number is covered by common positions through planning. By this provision, urban infringements can be settled by companies that have not built the necessary parking spaces and, on the other hand, the spaces are released to be used for another use. It is also possible to complete business park infrastructure projects in more than two phases. Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall notify the Commission and the other Member States of any measure taken to comply with this Regulation and of any measure taken to comply with this Regulation. The same undertakings are also exempted from the payment of a capital gains tax resulting from the divestment of their real estate by the part corresponding to their relocation costs. One very important point is that aid is granted for these enterprises created in our country, for large intragrouping units, such as wage costs for the first year of work for the recruitment of long-term unemployed and disabled people, for research and development projects, for vocational training programmes, which help not to leak the brains abroad, for which a institution of financial rewards for networks of scientific potential, involving Greeks living outside the country, is also set up. A Single and Independent Public Procurement Authority, which is subject to Parliament's control, is also established and promotes an integrated national public procurement strategy, so that their award and execution are transparent and harmonised in European Public Procurement Law. This and much more I could mention and respond to the objections of the New Democracy, which says that SYRIZA is not interested in private investment. It is interested in private investment in terms and rules that do not affect the country, which do not affect the environment, which are located in planning areas and in this direction we have started both the Land register and forest maps and the establishment of sanctuary and the design of pastures, i.e. the total background required for a country that really respects itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Balomemakis from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the grant by the Greek State of the repayment of housing and business loans guaranteeing the first residence of borrowers is a decisive element of the new regulation that replaces the current framework. Before we proceed to a zero-price criticism which has been heard, it would be useful to take into account what situation it replaces. To date, there has been no possibility of subjecting them to beneficial provisions for regulating their loans by natural persons with bankruptcy. These persons are identified by the Commercial Code and are those engaged in business. By extension, their loans, classified as business, have so far been outside the protection framework, and all they still had was to follow either the bankruptcy procedure or resort to the provisions of the Banking Code. Provisions which, as we all know, are most often rather incomplete and convicted of further economic activity for the person who resorts to them. Expansion of protection for business loans is a very important and crucial innovation, which only our country chooses. It concerns loans granted for the needs of an undertaking for which a mortgage right has been granted to the principal place of residence of the borrower. Such loans are many. They are mostly small or medium-sized businessmen who have had difficulty in the years of the crisis and have forced them to use banking, putting their own house in safety, as they usually did not have other worthwhile assets. The new regulation is a restoration to an injustice dictated on grounds of equality, which is why it has concentrated on general approval. More generally, the need for a review of the main residence protection framework is due to the fact that the former L.3869/2010, as had been successively amended, reached a limit point of application. Many conclusions about the imperfections and failures of this law can be drawn from its application. Its main weaknesses, in my opinion, were that there had not been the necessary weight in the pre-trial conciliation procedure, a practice which was largely due to the reluctance of the banks who were too late to realize that they had to give ground, as well as the lengthy process that eroded the prospect of a solution through the courts, but also the whole grid of relations that did not serve reality. Central innovation of this new framework is a quasi-automation at the preliminary stage, through which it is intended that there should be no slow-track procedures. The objections raised during the preparation of the draft law in committee mainly concerned the possibility of the platform being ready at the end of April, and the second and most important reason being whether certain non-objective parameters, such as the commercial value of the property, could lead to delays. It has been suggested that there should be a well-founded opinion of an accredited Ombudsman, which I personally find to be a sufficiently bureaucratic and possibly a sensitive additional financial burden. In view of the new amendment, which has just been introduced for commercial books and the possibility of proof through commercial books, I, too, consider it important and more practical to introduce them as benchmarks for comparison between the parties and, in the event of disagreement, to establish rapid judicial intervention under the procedure for interim measures. In the positive terms of the draft law, it is precisely to define the concept of a ‘prosperous borrower’. All aspects of his personal and financial situation, such as the amount of annual income, the value of dwellings, deposits, the number of members of his family, etc., are taken into account. From the point of view of the institutions which were called upon to give an opinion, I maintained as positive the Union's proposal of borrowers that the notion of a loan should be more accurately defined as a reason for excluding a loan from the new regulation and that no account should be taken of any fraudulent action at the time of receipt of the loan, but only for immediate fraud. Indeed, the judicial decisions which so far rejected the applications for membership of the Katselis - Stathakis are decided on the immediate fraudulent, that is, the case that a loan has been granted on purpose not to pay it. It differs, however, according to the common sense, from the loan received by a person who believed that he could cope, but could not, because of the crisis and to whom a second chance should be given. It is different, that is, as to the possibility of treacherousness, and it must be treated differently. In conclusion, I would like to refer to an important issue to which no convincing answer has been given so far, as has been seen in the debate. This is the question: How many are today the strategic poor payers? The responses from the banks and especially the representative of the Central Bank yesterday have not been enlightened at all. The average citizen finds it difficult to understand, much more, that the Bank of Greece as a supervisory bank authority is unable to determine the number of strategic malpractices. Several excuses were heard yesterday, such as that the loan files come from the banks in general, that it is prevented from banking secrecy, etc. Also, a fascinated, let me be allowed to characterise it was an excuse that the relevant list is made up of the case-law. And yet there are institutional and technical tools to determine precisely who are those who have exploited funding for unfair enrichment, those who are not by system of paying their instalments, while they are able to do so. I would like to remind you that during the work of the House's Committee of Inquiry on the loans of parties and media has shown that such mechanisms exist and that, if there is no result of supervision, this is solely due to the lack of a relative will. At that time, we were told that the Bank of Greece has a special supervisory mechanism with experienced inspectors, who have the right to exercise control over any lending and any real element of the borrower, such as cash flow, financial flows and to identify cases of irregular loans, loans that are not legally secured. However, even late, the bank's research showed us that when the Central Bank wants to detect the ailments of bank borrowing, it can therefore clearly determine the scope of the phenomenon. I would like to submit to the minutes the extract from the conclusion of the first committee of inquiry, which refers to the audits and their results, precisely to show that when the Central Bank wants to, it can investigate the vastly large part of the strategic misappropriators. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Balomeni, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, how accidental it is that the person who provided us with that information on the Committee of Inquiry was found at the heart of a case that, if anything, indicates that at the top of the Central Bank there is a non-transparent status of acts which are of economic benefit to some, particularly a status of lack of sound control in the direction of the actual and system of malpractices. The request for immediate action is in no way excessive or unfounded. On the contrary, it is imperative that, if the management of the Bank of Greece continues to be silent and inappropriate, it will be seriously exposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u264	Mr. Theocratic has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I will also refer to the place where the first home is protected, and I will ask myself: Who has made the Greeks owe the banks? If we look at the figures in the 2000s compared to the whole of the European Union, we were the most well-paid, the greenest borrowers. What happened and the Greeks owe the banks? Who made them owe? But those who went bankrupt the country, the New Democracy and the PASOK. Those who quadrupled unemployment and took it to 28%, the New Democracy and the PASOK. If the Greek borrowers had work, they would pay the instalments to the banks, as they paid them before. They are responsible for wages and pensions twelve times, for New Democracy and PASOK. Otherwise they had Greek borrowers and paid. There would therefore have been no red loans if the country had not been bankrupt because of the New Democracy and the PASOK. Remember these things, not forget them. The strangest thing and the outrageous thing is that, on the one hand, Greek citizens were forced into bankruptcy and, on the other, they were called batters at the first opportunity. We never did that, and we don't do it now. We don't call battering the ordinary borrowers with the 100,000 euro loan. We call battered by those who took millions of "air", as they confessed themselves, and flip on all the lists, on the Lagard lists, on the Borgians lists. We are telling the Canadians and bankers and the central bankers, who have now come out of publicity - the previous speaker has mentioned - that he has taken 800,000 euros and has not even given 1 euros back. That's the shit. People know it and they have the lots of big loans. Whenever the issue of red loans and first homes arises, the opposition is at risk over the years. But did the Katseli Act, as amended and in many places, improve the law by Stathakis from 2015 until today? It's all right. Was the people's residence protected or not protected? Protected. We had a case, as Mr Stathakis says attributes say: 'Tell me one case where we have the first popular home auction'? But the lips of counterpopulation. We didn't. It's an impotent risk. Of course, luxurious houses and swimming pool villas were not protected. There was this separation that hadn't happened in the past few years. I shall briefly mention the positive aspects of the draft law, which concerns the protection of first residence. We really have a balanced solution to protect borrowers, those who have not protected the nine years now that the Katseli Act applies. Attention because nine years is a sufficient time for those who had such a problem of denouncing their debt obligations, to join the law of Katseli and to be protected. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Now for those who have not joined, we have a balanced solution that will protect and influencing money into the banks. And the length of negotiation shows once again that our government cares and cares for the interests of borrowers. Well, we're clear. Those who are already in the law, Katseli, are not concerned with this arrangement. Those who took a temporary decision are still under the law of Katseli and are waiting for the tactic. By the way, the Katseli-Statakis Act, in addition to Article 9, is still in force. What does that mean? Whatever they don't own, I don't have a home that they want to protect, they can join the law of Katseli as it stands today. The current law concerns the protection of first residence. That is why I am voting against the motion Business loans of traders shall be arranged for the first time. That was the great injustice of the Katseli law. It was his Achilles heel. A very good, otherwise, law had this achilles heel. He left half the population of Greece, the traders outside. They arranged their loans to natural persons who did not have bankruptcy in the neighborhood and the other one who had a shop and who was a merchant could not set it up. There was this sense of injustice, and that is the main positive of the law. With the three tools that the Minister, Mr Flamburis, mentioned yesterday in the committee, we will achieve reductions in the instalments of the housing loan up to 50%. What are these? They are important and I repeat them. It is the lengthening of the loan up to twenty-five years, depending on age, of course, with a limit of eighty years, the reduction in interest rate and public contribution to weaker borrowers. So those who join will have a significant reduction in the loan dose, what the borrower wants. Then the objective value at the first home is high, it is 250 thousand euros and in business is not low, it is 175,000 euros. Throughout the province we know of objective values, such as Kozani Prefecture, all houses join. Let us make it clear - there is also a relevant article - that loans transferred to funds are not affected and can also be incorporated into the law. It is positive that the determination is made at objective value while the payment is commercially paid. Now, of course, we had the legislative improvement that trade is determined in relation to what they are yesterday in the bank's books. And it is good here to allow the borrower to determine the value of trade. It is good, even in later years, to say what documents it can do. The deadline is sufficient for all year round. The possibility of judicial regulation is a positive arrangement if there is no agreement. And here we have a positive improvement with regard to Law 4469, which deals with the extrajudicial mechanism. Temporary protection runs too. It's a good thing. Very importantly - we have not mentioned this in committee - it is Article 12(3) for those borrowers who do not have a mortgage at the first place of the borrower to join. They are given the possibility to the borrower if they ask for a sale of the property within two years to ask the court to give them what they would get from the auction. It is a very favourable provision and in fact it puts the brake on the rest of the borrowers. And the 130,000 threshold is not small, because it concerns every creditor. I will say again that for respondents, I expect banks to accept or propose at a later stage to be able to join the Loan Law, for example with the present. Suffice it to say, they can pay more, instead of 120% to pay 140-150%. The banks want money. They don't want to have auctions. They won't be able to pick up those. We'll see these in the future. I will only repeat, in summary terms, what colleagues from all parties have said - and both Ministers and Mr Drasakis and Mr Flamouraris have mentioned it - that we will also see the 'green' borrowers at a later stage. PPC's example is a pioneer, which moved with 15% and 10% discount, ultimately, to the consistent borrowers. I close by answering all the New Democracy colleagues who said about our motto 'no house...'. Our motto is in force: "No folk house in the hands of a banker." Proceed and it's true. And I cannot fail to point out the pettyness on the part of PASOK that the law of Katseli - which all of Greece calls him Katseli - they call it a little different PASOK law and I don't know how.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u266	It's PASOK's.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u267	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u268	I would also like to point out to the 'green' borrowers and to the'red' borrowers who follow us and see the effort being made, never forget that the loans of the new Republic and of the PASOK - from about 200 million each party - remain unpaid. Strategic malpractices are characteristic, and I hope and believe that the world will not reward these two parties with their vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u269	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Karastasis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, at first I think I should give two answers to colleagues who have made a few points. First of all, I will start with Mr. Treasury. He made a reference to Law 4412/2016 - the well-known law on works, studies, supplies and services - in Article 23, where the SCU tried to create those conditions to support the OTAs, because we know there is a huge number - about 1/3-OTH, which has no technical competence. I therefore believe that through the policy that they have been doing all these years and with the relationship of one to five - five were leaving, one was returning - they created a huge problem in OTA technical services. Unfortunately, however, we are forced - if I am wrong by Mr Giannakides to correct me - to withdraw this article 23, and I think it is a matter that we need to see again. So the law was not bad, because, as we know, two days ago Mr. Mitsotakis and all the technical staff accepted that Law 4412/2016 was a very good law, which if they become government, they would retain it. I will now come to a suggestion made by the special speaker from KINAL, about the relations we have with the Greek banks. I must remind him that in 2011 they had a banker who they supported, and who replaced a Prime Minister who had taken 44%. And immediately thereafter, in 2012, they had the Minister of Foreign Affairs the next banker in our country. So don't try KINAL to create those conditions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u271	Panama papers we never had.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u272	Listen to this. You have had bankers and Prime Ministers and Finance Ministers, with all the tragic results the Greek people have experienced. This is what the entire Greek people know and I think they are still aware of what your tactics have been. Because our rapporteur was very clear about the bill, I would like to make one - two references to this more general bill in which, apart from protecting the first home, I think the government has found it necessary to have a number of changes, improvements and regulations, which relate to a wide range of economic life in the country, always looking at the future and attention directed mainly at the new world, young people. The Government introduces a series of regulations and provisions which will bring about the creation of conditions of transparency and sound competition, the strengthening of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the development of a culture of cooperation and the sharing of ideas between enterprises, which will promote research and technological development of innovation. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a policy for growth in terms and rules rather than the nebula that prevailed to date. We also have an footprint of our policy with the provisions relating to the wider area of Oinofytas, as several colleagues have said. For decades the largest informal industrial concentration has been created, and the region can be a pole of economic development in the country and a model of modern and efficient environmental management, a huge investment involving the private sector, the Government participates and the Region of Central Greece participates. Mr President, the rapporteur, as I said, developed all aspects of the draft law. I would like to highlight a little the difference of understanding that separates us from our predecessors in the governance of this country. Many of the regulations of the bill were in earlier legislations with the same targets. They didn't achieve their goal. On the contrary, in many cases they produced negative results. This, ladies and gentlemen, is our difference and our fellow citizens know it well. You legislated in the light of the dictatorship of the market. We are legislating towards political regulation of the market in the direction of equal opportunities, the protection of youth work, support for innovation, respect for the environment. Let me turn to the amendment on'red' loans. Let me turn to the latest articles in the bill, before we move on to the Greek report on Lamia, and to the amendments that have also been made to the introduction to local bodies. I wouldn't do it if my colleague, Mr. Stavros, didn't make a report. Since we are acquainted with Phthiotis and, in particular, Lamia, everyone will remember the parade of the officials of the New Democracy and PASOK, in the previous years, where they delivered a report, an area that had no current, no staff, no buildings had been received since 1998, there has been no static adequacy. I think these 'households' who have had the report all these years have left it with a 'fessi' of 800,000 euros, according to the information available from the surveys carried out. So PEL is a 50-year-old institution for the people of the region. It has gone downwards for the past twenty years and we have ended up being interrupted. I think that this is why the Prime Minister at the Regional Conference of Central Greece in 2017 has committed himself to the transfer of the Lamia Panhellenic Exhibition to local bodies. With the proposed arrangement, a public-owned development company with shareholders, the Municipality of Lamites, the Region of Central Greece and the Chamber of Commerce is set up and a commitment that we made. So I think that any reference to this matter has been made to the mismanagement of all these years. I now come to the burning issue of days the regulation on'red' housing loans and the protection of first residence. With the amendment tabled by the Government, the objective we have set from the outset is to protect the people's residence after the end of the Katseli - Stathakis Act. At the same time, banks now have the opportunity to exalt their portfolios faster than red loans and to emphasise entrepreneurship support. The government, despite the considerable pressures, did not retreat from the core of the agreement reached with the banks two months ago. With the new institutional framework for the first time, the first residence is protected not only for vulnerable debtors who have taken a housing loan but also for many professionals who have taken a business loan with mortgage the first residence of the debtor. It is estimated that the arrangement will serve from 65% to 70% of housing loans. You will allow me here to make a reference to the rapporteur in New Democracy because, in fact, he is confusing housing loans with all the private debt, that is, he has tried to relate unparalleled things, potatoes with tomatoes, when we know that housing loans are about 18 billion and the loans that are currently regulated are about 8 to 9 billion. So we need to be very careful and not to create impressions when they'switched' all the private debt they had created over these years and are trying to tie it up with private housing loans. For the first time, there is provision for the grant of the instalment of loans, for the beneficiaries to be subject to the relevant provisions and for the entire duration of the arrangement and not for the three years under the Katseli Act. Furthermore, the existence, beyond the principal residence, of real estate or means of transport by the applicant is no longer prevented - in some ways - from submitting the application. The rate of the adjustment is particularly low in order to determine a low monthly instalment. I think that the limits of family income have been formulated in such a way - we need to pay attention here - to reflect reasonable living costs, as determined by the Greek Statistical Office, increased by 70%. Therefore, the regulation on the protection of the first residence was a central priority for the Greek Government, which received a country in which, as of 1 January 2015, any protection of the first residence had ceased to apply. We have managed, since then, and the extension of the Katseli Act and its evolution with the interventions of the Stathakis Act, and today we are closing this loose end, with a regulation that protects the vast majority of borrowers, with additional provision for business loans as I have said. What amazes me is the attitude and criticism of the New Democracy over the past period. People who left their homes unprotected at the same time as they did one recapitalisation after another - without plan and without care for'red' loans - should at least be a little more careful when criticizing. The Greek people know very well who the political leaders are responsible for the explosion of the private debt of the households and businesses and when this was created, as they know, and the fact that the New Democracy and the PASOK had not made any provision to protect the first home, not negligently, but unfortunately by strategic choice. Of course, New Democracy, unlike PASOK, said it would vote for the amendment, which will improve when it becomes government. Ladies and gentlemen, in the twenty-fifth years of the regulation it is likely that the New Democracy will eventually become a government. In the meantime, however, we will already have improved the economy and the functioning of the banking system, so their intervention will not be necessary. After all, you said the same thing about Law 4412/2016, which you just changed your mind and opinion the other day, and you said that you would keep him if you ever become a government. After all, you tend to say that you will do things which, although and when you become a government, will already exist from us, such as the projects that Mr Mitsotakis recently announced, which are either street-driven, or some of them are a month before the auction. In order to respond to the misery that the Anti-Policy of the Memorandums is moving, we must make it clear that which consultations on the framework for the protection of first residence are not due to the fact that we are in a fictitious memorandum, which only New Democracy continues to say, but that we are a member of the Eurozone, and whichever country is a member of the Eurosystem must harmonise its policy on the relationship between borrowers with the banking system and the European Central Bank and the SSM. This is happening in all of the eurozone countries. So, in the light of the wider interests of the country, of the economy and of the particular interests of borrowers and in particular of those who have, in fact, a problem of serving their loans, the government today brings an amendment, which has all those quality elements which I, at least, believe are taking a step forward from what we have had up to now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u273	Mr Giannakides has the floor for two minutes for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u274	I will be much shorter, Mr President. I have to mention: ‘1. The last subparagraph ‘Contracts in question shall be exempt from the provisions of Article 6 of the Treaty. 2527/1997 (A 206) and as a result of the suspension of Article 1 of the Act of Ministerial Council of 33/2006 (A'280).' Article 56 of the draft law, as replaced by Amendment No 2062 and special number 57, is deleted. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. In par. Article 29 of the draft law added the word'sufficient' by number. 6 Legislative shall be replaced by the word ‘required’.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u275	I would ask the above-mentioned legislative improvements to be distributed to the parliamentary groups. Mr Jellonis has the floor from the Democratic Reconciliation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to say to the speaker who came down from Stepa a moment ago that we have never had a candidate from the Panama Papers list, as we have never had a Minister for the Chief of HNP Government Karamanlis. Because it was heard here about what happened and the Greeks owed, we told you to do a committee of inquiry since 2001, to see what was to be done. Did you want it, gentlemen, the coup d'état, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Oh, no. Why? Because you did not want the 2004-2009 catastrophic period of Mr Karamanlis's governance to emerge, which was the main reason why our country was led to a serious economic crisis. We have also heard you say: 'We what are we to do? We have received a difficult economic situation and we have tried to respond." Sadly, the evidence for you is relentless. With Mr Varoufakis' first eight-month policy, at the request of Mr Tsipras, while the country had started to come out of the open, we unfortunately again led to a new, inappropriate memorandum and to a violation of the incomes of small and medium-sized enterprises, pensioners and wage earners. And that seems clear in relation to red housing loans, the loans, that is, they could not pay back all of them. When 2014 was 35.6% of the total of 25 billion non-performing loans in 2015, immediately within a year it went to 41%, there were 28 billion and today it is 44.7%. That's all in four years. I ask you: If there was no PASOK law, No.3869/2010 to protect the first residence, were you capable of protecting the first residence? Four years you haven't done anything. You have now come now to bring a fig sheet law to hide your inability, which leaves seven out of ten borrowers, who cannot serve their loans, uncovered. And you come from the other side and tell us here that 'we are left', as the Minister of Finance said, and that 'you cannot make us a left policy'. Look at you, gentlemen of the government, the reality is being avenged. Every lie is now revealed and all your myths slowly collapse. You are hampering poverty and that is what you say 'left policy'. Swallow with everything that produces and creates the place and destroys it. That is what you call 'fair growth'. You have led with your own responsibility in delinquency, with 20 billion against the Greek people, the banking system, and that is what you call "patriotism". "Adjust" the left-hand complexion, and that is what you call "class" and "resolution". Your leftfulness and social sensitivity have also been reflected in this amendment on first residence, where the great words of the Prime Minister prove once again to be stubborn cheques with no impact, while the citizens are crushed, disappointed, angry and afraid. We have also heard the Minister for Finance say that collective agreements have been restored. Why don't you tell him, when you call him Katseli, that the cut-off and abolition of collective labour contracts and the abolition of the reincarnation also took place by Mrs Katseli, who is now in your ranks? What collective bargaining have you restored, when there are no top two collective rights of workers, free collective bargaining and social dialogue? You apply Law 4172/2013, which expired in 2016, and you came in 2018 by ministerial decision, to set the minimum wage at EUR 650. The state is once again an absolute regulator and the three-year freeze is valid. There are two amendments to the Greek Sugar Industry, 2048 and 2064, which concern workers, as you brought Christmas Eve before you joined the law for the liquidation of the Greek Sugar Industry. We agree with these amendments. We call 'yes, for workers to be restored'. But what about the Greek Sugar Industry? Because we said that growth and SYRIZA are not inconsistent. In 2015, you received two active factories for a major strategic product in northern Greece. What have you been doing these four years? A hole in the water! You shut down these two factories. And you come now and say from the Step of the Parliament that "the PASOK is cooking because it reduced the quota 2006, 2007, 2008." You don't dare say who it was then. The New Democracy, the Karamanlis government, reduced quotas and then led three factories to close down. We disagreed, we reacted. We kept the two factories running. You have ejected the debts to the heights. The first legislative act you have done was to give 30 million and thus increase the debts by 100 million. We are looking for Mr Pitsirla - good for the workers, we agree - to tell us what will happen with the tens of thousands of sugar beet producers. What are they gonna do? We are now entering April. They can no longer grow. And do you know what spoon you're doing? At a time when customs producers are unpaid for 2017, 2018, you owe them 2.5 million more employees 2.5 million, you say to them: "Grow as many as ten thousand acres now, we don't have the political cost, I'm guessing we're going to put you under one factory." Listen to the spoons! If that's possible! You started from self-management, to give them to workers and farmers, you have come to close them, and now you are trying to avoid political costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u277	Finish it, Mr. Jelloney.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u278	And I close, Mr President, by placing it in relation to the first home amendment. Once again it is understood by the Greek citizens that the government deliberately left to end the framework of the law of protection 3869/2010, and now it brings a leaf of figs legislation, as I said, which will in practice protect those citizens who have protected and the failed extrajudicial compromise that is no one. It is clear that this framework will not be applied by the present Government. It was only written for election reasons. Besides, the fact that we are still going to become electronic platforms, such as in the extrajudicial compromise, raises concerns about when they will be done, how they will be implemented. The most important thing, however, is that the Greek citizen, who cannot serve his loans, is in the mood of the bankers. They'll judge whether or not they'll join him. If they don't join him and the citizen goes to the Greek courts, he'll have a 5% penalty. Where did you hear that? Where did you see that? You're really just a government for the few, for the ones they can and have. You really aren't left. You're cynical masters and chair hunters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Apostleus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u280	First of all, Mr Jelloney, what I have to say is that we have found a sugar industry on the back of the closure, we have kept it open and with these 30 million with the act of legislation it has worked all these years. And you can be certain that with this amendment we are dealing with workers' issues, there will also be a set of plans that will actually solve the problem of working. So it must also be those who, above all, will be satisfied from there and you can be sure that we will continue to operate. Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to emphasise the unanimous acceptance of the bill and its most important amendments by the institutions - in essence they were concerned - that were invited to the committee. That doesn't seem to have moved a part of the counterpopulation. And I begin my intervention from Article 11 on the Oinophilus region. The Prime Minister said in July 2017 at the Central Greece's development conference in Lamia: "The informal overconcentration of industrial activities on the Chalkida - Thebes - Oinophitas has caused an environmental disaster without precedent, which we are committed to confronting. On the other hand, we have the possibility of using an existing industrial fabric and the corresponding human potential to give the region an industrial spirit with an emphasis on technology, innovation, competitiveness and high added value." This is what is happening, ladies and gentlemen, with the proposed regulation. They are already in the process of implementing not only by drawing up an integrated strategic intervention plan in the Aesopus basin but, above all, by creating, developing a business park, ensuring - and not forgetting this, because too many are exploiting it - the resources required to implement it from the NSRF 2014-2020. And this strategic plan came as a result of consultation procedures with the Region of Central Greece, with the Municipality of Tanagras, which the government has formed, a government that has done our motto "Decentralisation with self-government". I will focus particularly on some articles, which amend Development Law 4399/2016 in the direction not only of speeding up but also of simplifying procedures for the implementation of private investment strategies. And I start from Article 28 of the aid granted for each investment project. Its arrangements align the general part of Law4399, which refers to the individual aid schemes with the general expropriatory regulation of the European Union. It is important, for example, to decide the ceilings for aid granted for each investment project, as is important, for reasons of force majeure, to extend the initial deadline for the completion of the investment but also to be known what the tax exemptions for each investment are. It is also very important that what comes under Article 35, which enables investors who have been late in implementing their investment, to make known where they are, in order to relaunch the process of placing and implementing these investment projects. Also necessary were the regulations relating to Article 24 relating to the organisation and functioning of the public markets of producers in the Committees on Regional Units and in the People's Markets. I mentioned something, Mr Giannakides, in the committee and I repeat it now. Go ahead and establish the popular producer markets. It's your responsibility. It is, in fact, another form of market organisation that brings the farmer in touch with the consumer. There is no one else to interfere in this process. You realize how important it is for both of us. In my speech to the Standing Committee, I also referred to the need for development law and strategic investment in the agri-food sector, because the resources available under the rural development programme are not sufficient. I am thinking in particular of large greenhouses, which are, indeed, related to renewable energy sources and, of course, of vertically produced and processed livestock products, animal waste treatment plants, integrated aquaculture plants. You also need to see the multi-participating development companies of local government bodies. We have a problem with regard to the implementation of Leader. In the present period, we cannot, because the change you have made to the operating regulation has created a problem. To return the regulation as it was, so that we can walk this programme. I want to turn to two amendments. One is sugar workers and one is paving the way for a definitive solution to the problem of the unit and the other is the protection of the first home. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'll repeat it myself. One hundred and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens, that is to say 70% to 75% of borrowed housing loans with a service problem, are relieved. That's what we promised, that's what we're doing. Of course, I should particularly like to mention the loans from the farmers who have mortgaged their first residence. I stress that banks have a set-up, but we need to see these loans that are related to the clearer, PQH. He told the committee the Bank of Greece's representative said they were coming in. We need to look at it and we need to take care of it, because it is a very serious issue. So that, ladies and gentlemen, is what we are doing, and we believe that the world that has had a problem, with these arrangements that we have brought, is being relieved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u281	Before we continue with the list of speakers, let me make two announcements. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the High School of Oinos Kastoria and the High School of Mesopotamia of Kastoria. We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The second communication relates to criminal proceedings lodged in Parliament. I have the honour, therefore, to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Priminal Responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, 27-3-2019: Criminal proceedings concerning the Deputy Minister of Health, Paulo Polakis. Criminal case law concerning the late Minister of National Defence, Athanasios - Apostolos Tsohatzopoulos. Criminal proceedings concerning the former State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Euripides Stylianides. Criminal case law concerning the Minister of Finance, Eukleidis Tsakalotos. Criminal proceedings concerning the Deputy Minister and State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, George Papandreou and Euripidis Stylianides. Criminal case law relating to the late Minister of IPTODE, George Soufflia. Criminal case law concerning the former Minister of the Interior, Panagiotis Skourletis and former Deputy Minister of the Interior for Civil Protection, Nikolao Toska. Criminal case law concerning the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Happiness of Ahchioglou and the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Anastasio Petropoulos. Finally, criminal case law concerning the current Ministers for Employment and Social Protection, Fani Palli - Petralia, Health, Dimitrios Avramopoulos and Economy and Economics, George Paloscufi. Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, clearly the big question of protecting the first home we have today in the form of an amendment has overshadowed to a large extent - and I think it makes sense because it concerns our fellow citizens who are likely to lose their home - a very serious multi-branded project of the Ministry of Economy and Development. That is what I shall refer to. This is a serious multiplier, whose development dimension is dominant, since in the post-mortem phase of our country, growth is the future and the whole effort focuses there. It is a bill where, as I said, its development dimension is important. It's a bill with a gaze literally in the future. And that was recognised - and they are from a few times - in our committee, in the Committee on Production and Trade, where the bodies were so positive and their comments too. It is a bill that introduces a package of measures, which provides development incentives, which takes steps to combat bureaucracy and in particular to modernise the intellectual property system in Greece, with emphasis on industrial property and strengthening innovation, the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the provisions of the European Directive, the establishment of a National Intellectual Property Council, the updating of an institutional framework governing the granting of compulsory patent licences, the big issue that concerns strengthening the development of business parks by simplifying administrative procedures, which have so far been a brake on development. Article 11 states that the previous speaker has also referred to the holistic approach to the problem of broad, unregulated industrial structure in the Oinophilus region for the first time. We know about Asylum and all that. Here, in other words, laws go in, rules go in, terms go in. And that's very important. Of course, reference is also made to the conduct of technical professional activities, which concerns a number of technical professions, which enables the technical professions and graduates of equal and corresponding schools to be integrated into all the Presidential Decrees of 2013. I would also like to say on the big issue, as we said before, of growth and development law: several provisions of development law 4399/2016 are amended, mainly the reduction from five to three years - which can be made by investors - to take advantage of the whole tax exemption, and the possibility of 1/3 of the overall approved amount of tax exemption to be used before the decision to complete the investment is adopted. In general, we are talking about measures and incentives to attract investments of major importance, increasing the rate of subsidy with tax exemptions. All of these are signals to investors for our country, so that she can stand on her feet after eight very difficult memorial years. I cannot mention Article 35, where there is a definitive regulation of outstanding investment projects in previous development laws. Here to say that they were received in 2015, with the old laws of 2011, six thousand two hundred projects that had not been completed. In fact, in four years by 2015, we had a thousand, seventy-seven investment projects submitted. Under Law No.4399/2016, a thousand five hundred seventy applications were included in the SYRIZA government. There have been five hundred seventy-eight decisions of EUR 1.7 billion. As we understand, therefore, this government's interest in investment and growth is measurable, it is essential. Nor can I refer to Law 4412/2016, which aims to ensure the principle of transparency and to alleviate disparities between economic operators in order to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises. We can say that the institutional framework, although innovative, was not accepted by contracting authorities, had delays in concluding and implementing contracts and all of this. This draft law provides for a number of measures to facilitate contracting authorities in the process of concluding and implementing contracts and to help speed up procedures. Transparency and public interest are therefore strengthened, since there will be no problems in the performance of contracts. Changes cover the entire range of public works and contracts. I now come to the great issue of Greek society, the issue of'red' loans and the related amendment tabled. Our priority, as known, ladies and gentlemen, is the man, is to meet needs, to cover his housing needs and to protect the first people's housing. But with the amendment that we are debating today, there are also medium-sized strata which have been crushed and lifted a great deal of the crisis over the last eight years. So this regulation also covers a large part of them. I would say - let me say - that what should characterise Anti-Population - and the New Democracy and the PASOK - is - the least I can say - modesty, because they left without coverage, in 2015, without protection for the first residence. And if there were no informal - I would say - government agreement with bankers, we would have first home auctions by banks. And we say from banks, because there are individuals, there are other cases. We have after Katselis - Stathaki, which sets limits and, in fact, protects the non-occupationals and must protect their first residence. And we come today with this arrangement. In this arrangement, I would say one thing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, please, Mr President. With this arrangement, we dare and touch the issue of red loans. No other government dared this thing. We had a recapitalisation of the banks, and the main cause was the existence of red loans. So we come today to provide a real solution for the first residence, taking into account the needs of the many, since the regulation covers around 70% of those with housing loans, while ensuring the viability of the banks we want to be able to operate, to have passed stress tests. Their situation is good, but surely red loans were and are an obstacle. We want to develop, be able to provide loans, give new housing loans, meet the housing needs of young people. The very important thing - and I would like to close with that - is that we now have the business loans in this first residence amendment. Many microprofessionals, merchants to survive their business, their business, mortgaged their home. It's been the first time in the arrangement. And that was a part that we negotiated with the institutions so that it could pass through and it is always at the government's will to reward the consistent borrowers and it is good that both the government and the relevant ministers have committed themselves in this direction. So I would say that perhaps some people who want to vote against - I am referring to PASOK or KINAL anyway - may rethink it, because a residence is also a benefit. They must think about society at some point. And let me say that this logic, this policy and tactics lead to isolation from society. But the protection of borrowers is very important and good even now is to think about their position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u283	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to inform the House that the request for a roll-call vote was tabled just now on behalf of the Democratic Assent. It is essentially about the articles of Amendment Nos 2057 and 52. After consulting the Bureau - in other words informing the parliamentary groups - the roll-call vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u284	Why not sooner?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u285	Repeat at 12.30 p.m. The plenary will normally be opened for parliamentary scrutiny at 12.30 p.m. The speaker of SYRIZA Mr Dimitriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of the Ministry of Economy and Development contains and solves a number of issues which are clearly arising from the needs of governance. In other words, it includes a sanction for commercial secrecy and a number of issues relating to the acceleration of the government's work and proposes beneficial legislation to remove various pathogens of the past, but also to support a positive development, a fair development. So there are regulations on BIPs, rules on development law, and a number of amendments that are as important as - of course - as I shall refer to the end - the one on protection of first homes. On the issues of red loans there are multiple issues that have arisen precisely from the crisis. Most of all it is the collapse of the country's financial system and the country's real estate market. Second important question is the bankruptcy of a large number of the population and the impossibility, therefore, of paying particular attention to its debt obligations, and more specifically to its first residence. The need to protect the first home was therefore urgent and even more urgent for a large number of our fellow citizens, what we call 'economicly vulnerable groups'. Therefore, the Katseli law was necessary, except that he has closed his circle, and it is not the legislation that will allow us to move on to the new era. And what's the new era? It's the reinstatement to normality. And this should combine for the banking system the settlement of red loans and its ability to be truly financial. The real estate market must come to normality. Indeed, it is beginning to reshape, and it is important that the debate we are having on the property market and on these regulations should be resumed, precisely because it seems to be gradually restored to normality in this area. The support for borrowers in particular from these vulnerable groups, in other words, who have been most affected by the crisis and are concerned about their first residence, is of greater interest to us in terms of the legislative initiative that we are taking precisely to protect the first home, in addition to rectifying the banking system. So given that the Katseli Act closed down its cycle, plus the need to restart the economy and the active economic population, which has been severely affected by the crisis, the settlement of debts for the first residence of the people, especially families, which is our main concern and our main aim, is a response to the overall problem of loans and red loans, which, in fact, is to settle and should have our interest and then. This more general problem certainly serves in a better way, when we have a significant growth, with wider conditions and an increase in the incomes of the Greeks. So the regulation on the first residence is firstly a universal regulation and lays down rules - for the first time I would say - for a broader housing policy. The Minister's amendment therefore has the following basic features: For the first time in the new framework, the business loans which have a mortgage are included in the borrower's first place. The new framework provides for for the first time the contribution - the subsidy - of the State for the entire duration of the arrangement for up to twenty-five years. Beneficiaries shall regulate their debts to banks and to the Deposit and Loan Fund from a housing loan for which a mortgage has been entered or an addition to their principal residence. The settlement procedure shall be conducted via an electronic platform. In the new context, they will pay 120% of the commercial value of the protected dwelling with a duration of about twenty-five years and interest on the Eurobord of the quarter + 2%. If no consensual arrangement is reached, the debtor shall be entitled to request the settlement of his debts by decision of a court. The objective value of the main residence is that it should not exceed EUR 175,000 if the debts regulated include business loans, and in any case EUR 250,000. The debtor should have other family property of up to 80,000 euros and additional deposits of up to 15 000 euros in order to be able to join the arrangement. The family income limits were shaped in such a way that they correspond to reasonable living costs, including basic household living costs and additional focus costs, as determined by the Greek Statistical Office, increased by 70%. In any case, the amount of outstanding debts should not exceed EUR 130,000 per creditor. It was also noted that loans with mortgages or additions to the principal residence of the debtor constitute a category of loans which, when unhelpful, face additional difficulties in managing them. On the one hand, the extra-judicial mechanism is not available to regulate the housing loans of natural persons in commercial capacity due to organisational difficulties, and on the other hand, Law 3869/2010 lacks the automation necessary for the mass regulation of these problems. The conditions set out in the amendment are as follows: The value of the protected main home cannot exceed EUR 175,000 if the debts, as I have said before, include business loans and EUR 250,000 in any other case. The family income of the applicant for a natural person in the last year for which a tax declaration is available must not exceed EUR 12 000, plus EUR 8 500 for the spouse and EUR 5 000 for each child up to three children. If the total debt exceeds EUR 20,000, the property of the applicant, his spouse and dependent members, in addition to the principal residence of the applicant, as well as the means of transport of the applicant and of his husband, shall have a total value not exceeding EUR 80,000. It is obvious - because time is running out and I also want to talk about development - that our aim is to protect the people's housing, above all. And I think that, with this amendment, this objective is achieved. There are two other important amendments I would like to mention. One concerns workers in the Greek Sugar Industry, and a number of regulations favouring workers' rights. The second amendment concerns an increase in the level of parallel income of public market vendors, which was 40% of the poverty threshold. Now this possibility goes to 100% of the poverty line. Mr President, you will allow me to say a few words about the development law, which is important and shows our willingness to intervene politically, on issues which we feel may not have been sufficiently completed in a proper way and which are necessary to make the most operational, more efficient and ultimately serve the objective, which is a multifaceted development without regional disparities and with fair rules. In this bill we come to intervene in the aid scheme of the development law, investments of a major size, which, in fact, did not attract investors' interest in the first cycle. So we have to make an improvement intervention, and that is what we do without fear and passion. With the changes proposed in Article 30, we are trying to make this scheme more attractive to investors. The total eligible cost therefore falls from EUR 20 million at EUR 15 million, and not two but one job per million of eligible investment costs is now required. Also in terms of the choice by the operator of the investment plan of the tax exemption incentive, aid rates will be provided up to the limits of the regional aid map. The aid ceiling is EUR 7 million, compared with EUR 5 million before. At the same time, the procedure and the conditions for granting the tax exemption are in line with the favourable arrangements we are making, for the possibility of using the incentive to tax exemption in less years, that is, from five to three. We also anticipate small and medium-sized enterprises, because there is a strong interest in investors, forcing us to create a new overall regime, which we dare and do so, and we believe it will meet the needs of the development that exist. In the long term, the change in the development model promoted by the national development strategy is gearing the country towards a knowledge-based economy. We will win the battle of growth, of returning to normality and prosperous homeland. The objective of reconstruction and regional equality puts us in new ideas, new obligations, and we are sure that the people will enable us to respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u287	Mr Kavadas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, private debt is one of the most serious issues facing the Greek society today. In the years of governance SYRIZA this debt was increased and - from 183 billion euros in 2014 - it reached EUR 223 billion today. That's why last week we again became viewers of a malicious theatrical performance. The government threatened - supposedly - the representatives of the institutions, but after the strict signals of the European officials, they are forced to retreat. I stress this, in response to the rhetoric of SYRIZA colleagues on the alleged end of the Memorandum of Surveillance. Ladies and gentlemen, after four years, after incredible repetitions, the government today brings in an amendment, trying to regulate a very small portion of the private due debt. It is trying to regulate the protection of first residence for the most vulnerable borrowers at the nearest five of its term of office. And be careful, the Members of the government are almost celebrating, who eventually bring in a regulation that sets stricter protection limits than they promised. We can now say that this regulation is too little, it comes too late and with great care. The sloppiness with which you are legislating, Minister, seems to be within everything else than the legislative improvement you have just submitted on mortgage business, where you are further restricting the citizens who are unable to pay for their loans and save their homes by reducing the threshold to EUR 100,000 from EUR 130,000. I imagine that this is where the institutions have won, Minister, and you tell us that there is no supervision and that we have come out of the memos. And it is unacceptable that you once again tabled an amendment to the Rules of Procedure and you bring it through direct voting procedures, without any real dialogue. In particular, this lays down more criteria for the eligibility of borrowers, leaving a large number of households and businesses out of regulation. I would remind you that the original draft announced by the government before its naughty retreat concerned much more borrowers. So it is certain that this is no time for celebrations. This difference between the old draft and the amendment you are bringing to the vote today is due to the Government's drastic retreats with regard to the incorporation criteria and to the limit of the objective value of the first residence to be applied to professional loans. The General Secretariat of the Association of Greek Banks yesterday in response to Members' questions said that the new framework leaves 30% to 40% of red housing loans out of protection. In other words, the government's ministers who signed this amendment leave four out of regulation to ten borrowers who are unable to repay their debt to save their home in many cases. A major issue arising under this arrangement is the issue of borrowers who have received a loan in a Swiss franc. The regulation you are proposing states that the foreign currency and euro exchange rate shall be taken into account when setting the ceiling of EUR 130 000 at the time of the application. This will cause an increase in capital by 57% in these loans, leaving 90% of these borrowers out of regulation. Not to mention the hostage of consistent borrowers, in a Swiss franc, who, by reason of the exchange rate, have paid almost double the loan they have received. We'd expect there to be a solution from the government. There have also been relevant government commitments that care will be taken to resolve the issue. However, thousands of borrowers and guarantors are still waiting and at risk of being added to the lists of red loans. One big point, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is that there is no provision in this regulation for consistent borrowers. Once again, the citizens who at all costs remained consistent with their obligations and kept the banking system of the country upright do not see any reward. There should also be a clear distinction between strategic malpractices, from our fellow citizens who, in fact, are unable to meet their obligations. This is in no way dealt with under these rules. Also important is the operation of the electronic platform that will accompany this arrangement. I imagine that you are well prepared for 30 April, a day that - supposedly - will begin to apply for borrowers. You must commit, Minister, that the electronic platform is ready and that there will be no further civil suffering, corresponding to the one we have experienced with the extrajudicial compromise. Replies should also be given on the issues of pending applications and judicial decisions submitted, in accordance with the Katseli Act, but also on what will take place at the transitional stage until the new procedure is started. The New Democracy will vote in favour of this arrangement in principle, as there is a direct need to protect the first residence of the weaker borrowers, especially after the previous arrangement ended last month. In any case, the next government will, of course, make improvements to this arrangement. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has no coherence and is in the spirit of all the latest SYRIZA Government bills: day-to-day services, election moves and corrections of past legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, thousands of borrowers are waiting for today's amendment as a measure to protect first residence. Unfortunately, this is not the case. We are committed that, as a government, we will make improvements in order to eliminate the injustices caused by the rough amendment you have tabled, improvements that will reward those with sacrifices who manage to pay for their loans, but also exclude strategic misappropriations. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u289	Thank you to Mr Cavada and to the consistency in time. Now Mr. Gregos has the floor from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr President. And you of the New Democracy, of course, if and if you become a government, you will do as the loan sharks command you. I have already seen one of your colleagues from SYRIZA applauding you. It's indicative of what's going on. We have heard a moment ago that they were tabled to the House - the President mentioned them - about twenty motions concerning criminal prosecutions against certain members and officials of the government, but also more generally politicians of the so-called 'democratic arch'. We'll see their course. We are, of course, talking about protecting first residence. Of course, it does not concern the Members of the SYRIZA and the New Democracy, because many of them have one and two and three and four and ten and more residences. The electoral bills continue to come in the form of an avalanche, since the elections are not far away and the regime cannot avoid them, as it cannot avoid the heavy crash. Your tactics that reveal your wicked purposes are known. It seems, in fact, and it is intriguing, that you, like the previous ones, have devastated the Greek economy, you who have broken down the class of traders and businessmen, you who have grabbed the labors of life from the simple Greek, you who have broken up the insurance funds and sold public property, you who have reduced the pensions, you who have abolished the EASA, you false left-wing people who have led the world to despair and suicide, you who have faithfully executed every mandate of the loan sharks, you who have voted for memoirs, you are now being cut because the supposed protection of the first home and for the loans of the citizens. Really how many first homes have been lost so far? How many families were destroyed? What hope is there? Do you remember your false slogan? The people remember it and you will soon get the answer. I now come to the amendments. With regard to Amendment No 2053 by supplementing provisions of the recent intellectual property law and of the WIPO, as amended, the government pays out pre-election notes to various social categories, and in this case to the dear voters from the artistic world. It is only for them by all the social groups that intellectual property rights are inappropriate from anyone by way of derogation from any other other provision. In fact, revenues and receivables are not committed and offset against either the tax administration or the insurance funds or banks up to EUR 7,500 for each natural person. This photographic provision once again underlines the so-called 'ethical advantage' of the Left and its intermittent candidates. With the amendment of a general number 2062 concerning the aid of small businesses, the Government has again remembered the small and micro-enterprises which have been closed under its responsibility now in the run-up to the election. It is trying to give tax exemptions to businesses that are still open and have not been closed like most. The aid - in introductory terms - 'investment projects' of small enterprises with an amendment only as an alibi can be taken by entrepreneurs. In all the major and small cities in Greece, wherever we look, the shops, the small shops close one after the other and the trade is waging. And of course you're arresting some grandmothers. As regards the amendment with a general number of 2065 concerning activities in areas without defined land use, legislation, and indeed an amendment that regulates without any consultation on issues of industrial use of land, production permits and conversion of popular purchases from a planetary trader into permanent positions, they smell from far-reaching election benefits to various social groups. For the amendment with a general number of 2048 on the Greek Sugar Industry, the two in the three proposals for amendments to the SYRIZA concern recruitment, transfers and wage upgrades. The present concerns the many Greek Sugar Industry, which has been bankrupt because of party choices and arrangements. Unacceptable and pro-election. We stand by the workers. We had been next door to the industrial workers. We have asked too many questions too many times in the context of parliamentary scrutiny and in our positions in related speeches. As regards the amendment with a general number of 2056 to replace the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of L.4497, it is a malicious, voter’s amendment, without first and finally and without even a report from the General Accounting Office of the State, as it is compulsory, when it refers to economic sizes. Also the expression "equity that exceeds the amount of the poverty threshold" is for a novel and not for a legislature. As far as the amendment under number 2054 is concerned, the pre-election amendment of the Ministry of the Environment could also be the whole bill because of the large number of rheological and photographic provisions it contains. In essence, the changes made concern recruitment to various bodies for good reasons, such as specialised staff in the LIFE programmes, staffing positions to meet the needs of protected areas, which in the latter case, those appointed to the recommended posts, undertake to serve the appointment post of at least 10 years, but also the retroactive legalisation of expenditure relating to accrued remuneration of skilled personnel, whose payment is pending from the entry into force of the law. The burden of the state budget on the left was unknown, since even in special reports from the General Accounting Office of the State, the level of expenditure cannot be calculated precisely, because it depends on the adoption of a joint ministerial decision, as well as on other unstable factors. Amendment No 2055 concerns an extension of the deadlines for submission of statements of assets, proving that the digitisation of electronic declarations not only solved the problems of the organisation but also increased them, since the data submitted goes beyond the system's ability to process and register them, as we had anticipated in the past. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is also an amendment with a general number of 2057. This amendment concerns the so-called protection of the first residence - we have also said so in previous speeches - aspiring to be the follow-up to the Katseli Act which ended and is not extended because creditors do not allow it. I won't go any further, 'cause I don't have time. The amendment, with a general number of 2059, stipulates that credit balances arising from the income tax declarations 2009-2013 of credit institutions, on the part due to a tax withheld, shall be offset as a priority, since they relate to disputes arising before a court. The amendment under general number 2060 - and I shall end, Mr President - concerns the transfer, transfer of ownership of property to the HSE. The amendment provides that for the transfer of ownership from the GOI to ETAD S.A., registration is to be made by ETAD S.A. in its mortgage office. This is an amendment to the implementation of the divestment of public property. It is not time for us to refer to the other amendments. The Golden Dawn, for the reasons it has repeatedly made clear, is voting against every piece of legislation of the moderation government, which it refuses to legalise, let alone the amendments which are Rusphetological and which constitute the swan song, just before leaving power. And you've sat down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u291	Mr Ursouzidis has the floor from SYRIZA. At this point, I would like to inform the House - and you are well aware - that three speakers are still lacking in order to complete the list. Then there will be a second reading and, of course, we will close with the Minister and, of course, the vote will follow, except for the articles on which a roll-call request has been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u292	Deuteronology won't we have, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u293	I say that the list of speakers will be closed, we will move on to secondary dates, we will be closed with the Minister and then we will proceed to the vote. Here, Mr. Ursouzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u294	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill which concerns support for business, support for productive forces in the country, the people who are fighting and who have held our country up in these difficult years since 2010. But there is not enough time to go into the bill and the amendments in detail, and that is why I shall refer to three amendments, which I think are very important. The first concerns the Greek Sugar Industry, a rural activity that has supported many families for many years. Unfortunately, in 2015, we took it. We have found a factory with a debt of 150 million, a very bad management culture and a lot of problems. In four years, five administrations have changed, refusing to sell the two factories in Serbia which were the real profitable factories, namely those that contributed and suspected viability in the company. From this point of view I would like to thank those people who have refused the mandates of Piraeus Bank in order to sell these factories, because if we are talking about today there is a possibility that cultivation will continue in our home country, it is because these two factories can attract an investor so that farmers can continue their farming. I won't say anything more. Farmers know them very well. They know what happened these three years to get here today. The amendment, of course, concerns the workers in the company who must not be found without work at an age of fifty, fifty-five years like so many Greek citizens during the crisis. So they go to positions of the Greek state to meet the needs that exist there. And some of those people with some retirement program are retiring. It was right, it was fair, and I think it had to be done. From this point of view, one cannot be pleased when one is forced to take measures that should be taken under other conditions, so that the plant is viable and continues to function, as we in particular have known in Imathia, which we have the central unit of Plateos. The second amendment concerns the regulations on business parks. The measure is necessary. We have all experienced the uncontrolled and unregulated situation in many industries. In the Committee on Production and Trade, some of the businesses in the Pella and Imathia Prefectures, which are polluting and which may be affected, have been mentioned in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. No, because the incentive that young companies must have to relocate to business parks is an obvious need and is in the context of science, which stipulates that the pollutants produced and polluted for many years in our country should now be controlled by telematics. Thus it is one of the rivers of the Prefectures of Imathia and Pella, "Tafros 66". And because I was provoked yesterday in the Committee on Production and Trade, I brought these photos and I will present them to the House. It's in Pella's Lipochori. You can see the pollution here. Going to Agia Marina in the Prefecture of Imathia and Lykogiannis, the village in which I was born and the river in which we learned to swim. After four years this year is the fifth time that this situation is no longer there, because some have made sure that the carpets of industrialists are not done in order to appoint five people to unwritten votes or I do not know what other interests may be hidden. [[At this point, the Member, George Ursouzidis, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the last few minutes of my brief speech, I will obviously devote them to the amendment on the grant of the repayment of housing and business loans with a mortgage on principal residence. No one is happy, my dear fellow Member, Mr Cavada, nor can anyone celebrate when citizens cannot respond to their loans. I cannot say, however, that I am very sorry that today, for the fight against the civilian population, a government managed to bring this bill to save 70% from public housing. I am not concerned about the dwellings of Dionysus, Katalis, Skopelos, Mykonos or Syros. It is well known who owns them, and in any case they have no particular problem, even in the years of the crisis. These, then, who really need to be protected. I think it is done to a certain extent, because no one claims the legislation is perfect. But the EUR 250,000 for any type of loan and the EUR 170,000 for business loans, which for the first time go in, I think they cover a very large range of first homes. And here because of my capacity as engineer I say that there is no home in the province that has an objective value of more than EUR 200,000 or even EUR 170,000. The other part that one could discuss is that it could indeed be higher the level of the obligation covered by the law to the banks. However, this is something that we will see how it will walk and here we are discussing it again. The interest rate and the prolongation for twenty-five years is very important. That's what anyone free businessman understands. He's got a loan. He understands, that is, what it means to have a 2% interest rate and "run" for twenty-five years instead of blackmailing the banks and asking you for any real estate or mobile property you have in order to dive it out. Finally, I firmly believe that no one has anything to gain from the divestment of a people's home. Everyone will also lose the bankers and citizens, obviously, but above all our homeland will lose, because people who could work with dignity and produce, are suddenly in disrepute and in a situation in which they have nothing to offer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For a minute, Mr President. The next step, which I think is absolutely necessary to legislate, concerns the obligations of the citizens who have been created against the insurance funds and the tax. There is no way that this money of 100 billion will be collected. It is well known that more than half of them will not be collected. That was the logic in the first half of our government, starting with the hundred doses. The state benefited, the citizens benefited. Many of them responded and continued to work, but some failed to respond and lost. It is now an opportunity to "collapse" these obligations all the surcharges and even under conditions could be "driven" and the basic debt. Finally, do not talk much about loans, because your house - the EUR 200 million as well as others - has been'sustained' to the Greek people. These loans, indeed, are not covered by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u295	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty-two students and students and two teachers from the 20th Municipal School of Serres. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Karasmanis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been amazed lately to see the Left Government tabling amendments that are rainy and, indeed, whole bills of law with dozens of articles, which, when tabled at the last minute, cannot be thoroughly studied. Indeed, it is done by the Left, which denounced the previous governments that they were violating Parliament's Rules of Procedure and that it was not democratic and parliamentary to table delayed amendments. I, as Minister - I must say - had tabled only one late amendment, but with three lines, express and understandable. I was reducing the tax rates on agricultural photovoltaics, from 26% to 13%, characterizing income as agricultural. Why? Because the new CAP was beginning and we were in danger of losing Community funds. So I come to the amendment on the protection of first homes. Honestly, I have waited for the left-wing government not to allow the first home to be lost for any Greek, for no family who has proved itself unable to pay, given the bad crisis that the majority of borrowers have, in fact, been unable to respond to the repayment of their housing loans and that the malpractices under the system have been few. The great dream of the middle Greek to have a home, to put, as our people say, a tile over his head and his children's heads, is not protected. At the same time, we must protect trade habits, because otherwise - we must be realistic - there is a risk that the banking system will collapse and therefore the economy of the country will collapse. But I was expecting a fairer adjustment for a small dose depending on the annual family income of each borrower. We will vote on this amendment. Our rapporteur and the parliamentary representative have also been mentioned, because we do not want a home to be lost by the borrower. We want the last borrower to be protected. I come now, ladies and gentlemen, to the amendment with a general number of 2065 and a specialist of 60, which defines the responsibility of the urban partners. Indirectly, but clearly, it concerns the producer group "Athena", which more than twenty-five years ago in my prefecture in Pellas, a group of fruit and vegetable producers under the name "Athena", was set up under a private agreement which was in the form of a founding statute and was intended to deal with the movement of their products. It began to function as a group of farmers - producers within the framework of Community Regulation No 1035/1972 and with that status they were treated by the financial services, as recorded in the relevant court ruling of the Court of Appeal of Thessaloniki. This is why the concentration, movement and disposal of their products were not subject to a corresponding VAT on third-party sales. After all, when the group submitted its statements and sales invoices, it was clearly stated in the document concerned that they were exempted from VAT and thus accepted by the competent DUs. After a period of a few months, with legal guidance, the group was given the legal form of an urban company with the same name, namely a group of fruit producers and horticultural "Athena". I would also stress this - in its new form, the group maintained its statute, unalteredly its dominant articles, such as the non-participation of the farmers - members in profits and losses, which is the main feature of a group of civil society, and that it would publish to its members the clearances rather than the invoices. If "Athena" was not working or not recognised as a producer group, it could not withdraw, which all authorities were aware of. Thus, it continued to function uninterruptedly and in the periodic statements made on the products sold through it in the relevant column, it was stated that VAT was exempted. These statements were received by the competent authorities, considered and recognised by the members of that company as farmers, members of a company in the form of a group of farmers and were therefore exempted from the obligation to collect VAT. In particular, I would point out to each sales invoice to traders that no VAT is charged and that the sale is on behalf of the producers. This group of producers has been operating for several years exemplary. Its members and managers, like the competent authorities, knew and naturally accepted that they were legally exempted from the obligation to collect and recover VAT under the applicable Community regulations. It is empirically incomprehensible and completely unreasonable, after twenty-five years of uninterrupted operation, that the tax authorities ask them to return money as a return to VAT that they have never legally collected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, this is a social problem, please leave me a minute or two. This company was recognised and treated by the tax authorities as it was, i.e. as a group of farmers who were not subject to VAT. Like also the products received by the group of producers ‘Athena’ throughout the period of operation, whether they were exported exempted from VAT in accordance with the exculpatory procedure in force from 1992 until now, or for withdrawal and also exempted from VAT. Therefore, the Greek State has not damaged a single euro. So nothing is legitimate about claiming. All that I mentioned was confirmed by court decision number 766/2017 of the Triomemus Court of Appeal of Thessaloniki, which unanimously exempted the administrator, auditor and accountants of the group on the grounds that for many years this company has been operating and treated by the tax authorities as a group of farmers who are not subject to VAT and that it has not damaged the State nor one euro. This, then, has led to a dramatic dead-end of a thousand two-and-a-half families and has caused a huge problem and a turbulence in local communities. So the amendment which has been tabled and which we are discussing is for me half and half. It makes it unreliable that the officials who were right to say to these farmers will not be charged a single euro. The amendment burdens farmers, the members of the group, with the amount of the share of the company that no one knows how much it will be. Could be 500, it could be 1,000, it could be 1,500. Nobody knows. In order to remove this gross injustice, therefore, I propose adding a proposal to this amendment to the effect that the members of the Athena producer group, recognised in accordance with Regulation No 1035/72 and registered in the books of the companies of the Court of First Instance under number 66/9-3-1993, are not charged with the value of the share. Only in this way is justice restored and people are exempted from this harsh one. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u297	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] We are talking today mainly about the amendment tabled in the context of needs on the one hand and the commitments on the other side of the government, in order to address the issue of overdue households. The viewpoints we see are different and the view that the Government and the New Democracy see it differently. Of course I have to start from 2010 and say that the PASOK government between the institutional changes it made at the time and the reforms to address the causes of the crisis, has taken a number of decisions that had to do in this period with the problems that had arisen from economic derailment. For example, on the problem of tripling the pharmaceutical expenditure from EUR 2,2 billion, which was in 2003, to EUR 5,8 billion in 2009, it proceeded with the institutional change of the prescription system by electronic prescribing and other waste reduction measures. Indeed, in two years' time the system was housed at EUR 2.8 billion, where it remains today, without an attempt has certainly been made to tackle the injustices that have been experienced in this effort. At the same time, the problem with overdue households had arisen. The credit expansion that has been in recent years, and at the same time the inability to serve the loans, due to the reduction of income, made the need for an institutional framework that was not in Greece until then and became L.3869/2010 for the protection of highly indebted households, but not inertial. It provided a way out so that, through the smaller financial possibilities they had, they could cope with and serve their loans and obligations, of course, with absolute protection of their first home, the main home, the home they live in. This, then, in 2015 ended, in the troika and the SYRIZA government, and another institutional framework had to come. What was it supposed to be? Of course, the situation has deteriorated, because with SYRIZA's famous choices at the time we have an increase of 32% of households who cannot serve housing loans, we have a lack of recapitalisation of banks, unnecessarily before the governance of SYRIZA, of course. It is lacking because they have enabled foreigners to take the banks 'birth rather than' and a banking system, which since then cannot stand on its feet, has at the same time a problem that is growing, without the government facing it. We're in the fifth year of SYRIZA government. Therefore, instead of evaluating Law 3869, the law of PASOK for highly indebted households, the application of which I had the honour of starting as the competent State Secretary of State on January 4, 2011, by collecting the month of bankers and association of banks, who through cooperating newspapers, sites and media, then they also fought the war against this law, which SYRIZA of course did not vote for, who was then with the banks. And then! Because there is a myth that SYRIZA before 2015 was against unfair practices and bank abuses. No, of course not. They've been together ever since. He didn't vote for the law. And I'm not surprised by his current attitude. Bank cheeks, and then I can call it a brand, with people. And today comes a bill that, with the propaganda that Maximos had unleashed in the past days on supposedly ruptured and supposedly protected, one expected to see really a law that would respond to a real need. As soon as the law was made public, and in particular with the amendments of today's day, it was confirmed that not only was there not a break, but bankers had written it. Not only did the bankers, but the troika also put its hand in, and so the sum of all these restrictions, have made a legislative framework that will be voted on tonight by SYRIZA and New Democracy grandly, in order to end the validity of the only law that protects the home of the borrower who fell into weakness, by n. 3869. This is voted by the New Democracy with SYRIZA, the end of the real protection of the first and main residence, without giving any way out. And they do so with a law which will have effect for a year, which does not take into account the fact that, even today, a worker will be able to become unemployed and within three months, he will be able to reap his loan and have no disobedience. He's not entitled to go anywhere. That much analgesia now? So much consensus now, New Democracy and that? To see the problems caused by this law, which has a bureaucracy of such and such limitations, seven out of ten, and of course has a number of exceptions. Twenty-one testified by EKPIZO, who you did not accept to come and talk to. This is a consumer union which has worked very hard. We proposed it, but SYRIZA and, of course, the New Democracy did not accept it. You have within the law a shameful provision that you are fined by the borrower, because he has fallen in a state of inability to serve his loan, if - he says - the banks do not accept to regulate it, while at the bank nothing. It's like I told you, written by the bankers. There's no other explanation for having these provisions. It says nothing about the possibility of guarantors being able to join an institutional protection framework. There is no possibility and there is nothing for the large category of borrowers, for which there are judicial decisions, and the government is committed to bringing an arrangement for loans with a Swiss franc. There's nothing. This legislation is therefore coming. We have asked for a roll-call vote which, as has been announced, will take place tomorrow, because we do not agree with the abolition of protection. That's the main issue. We do not agree with the abolition of this protection. And to say it's no coincidence that the New Democracy agrees with SYRIZA. I heard yesterday and today and it was a pragmatism in the Senate that Mitsotakis should be the leader of SYRIZA on various issues - he says - and in plenary the New Democracy should support SYRIZA. It is a continuation of what we have seen the previous period voting together for the extension for twenty years of the Athens International Airport Convention without a competition. And even yesterday, he announced - it says - the New Democracy new works with competitions and so forth, while in the past few days it had voted without a competition for twenty years to still have the International Airport. Who are you laughing at together?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Kegeroglu, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u300	I conclude by mentioning the granting of the privatisation of the ten ports. You voted together again. Is that possible? The place needs a change of policy. There is no need for a change of faces in the government, for Alexis to leave, for Kyriakos to leave Paul Paul to come to the Ministry of Health. We don't need such changes of person. We want change of policy and change of policy with the New Democracy we do not see. It's getting worse. We see what's coming and doing here. So there should be a citizen not an anti-vote or an anti-response. And anti-SYRIZA, of course, and anti-Right is all right. But we should choose policies and we call on him as a Change Movement to choose a policy that will change things and that will make the Change in Strong Player Movement on the day after tomorrow so that there can be a social agenda. We have a great difference between New Democracy and SYRIZA on the social agenda, on the small and medium-sized ones, on the scientists, on the unemployed, on the workers, on the farmers, on whom we are talking, and we leave to them from Kolis to Bobola and Vardinoyannis, all others to share them with each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u301	Good, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u302	It's none of our business. We're not talking about it. We're interested in citizens. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Buras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u304	Mr. Kegeroglu, leave what you're saying. We always have the same view. The same thing has been said by our Chief in the parliamentary group today. Our Parliamentary spokesman supported this morning if you heard it, and we all support it. So let these misleading places upon your desperation find space. Ladies and gentlemen, all Greeks remember - of course you are few, a couple of SYRIZA - the slogans of SYRIZA - what to remember? - with which, of course, you won the election about four and a half years ago. Remember that with an article, with a law, would you abolish the memorials, HISPIA, the basic salary at 751? What should anyone want first, serenity? But because today we are talking about a key issue, what is about the ears of all the Greeks is what you said: 'No house in the hands of a banker'. Do you really remember them? Aren't you embarrassed? Honestly, what are you trying to convince? Aren't you the same? How are you going to tell the citizens you represent today that you are solving a problem? In fact, in a central speech - our rapporteur, Christos Dimas - in the morning of 2015 in the election of the last days of January 2015, Mr Tsipras said for word: 'We have a plan and we are committed to putting an end to this nightmare of the first home auction. No house in the hands of a banker with a SYRIZA government. We have a plan. Today it is a slogan, Monday it will be a law of the state." And there have been how many Seconds and you come today with a lazy plan, a lame proposal, which, of course, for reasons of urgency, as Mr Dendias said, and one could benefit, we will support him - tell the world if what you were saying at that time is true. The reality is, not only was there no plan, but you were either consciously lying to the Greeks or there were dangerous delusions, as the Prime Minister said. I don't know what to choose from each other. But now we are going to the private debt issue, which is important. This has been said by all and, above all, by our rapporteur and the committee and by Mrs Bakoyannis, that the total private debt is EUR 224 billion. Of these 85 billion are Greek debts to banks. Of course, the Bank of Greece - those who were yesterday, I - in committee said that the 8.5 billion euro will go to the regulation. The Bank representative spoke of 11 billion. Whatever we get from these two, we see that even 5% of the total private debt cannot be regulated. So you understand what the deception you are doing today to the Greek people. So it would be very important - to let this go, everyone understands, how few - it would be very advisable, apart from regulation, to bring today with this plan and public debts and, apart from banks, tax and insurance funds. That would be something positive for the world. Ladies and gentlemen, because I see that time is running out, I would like to stress that this issue of regulation, as we have said at the outset, has been known for several years since you took over. Why did you have to wait so long to legislate even after the end, which you imposed, that is, the end of '18? There's no answer. You have nothing to say to that. Nor do I see any provision made for consistent borrowers. In fact, you are evading yesterday and today. We have heard them from both the lips of the Vice-President and Mr Flavouraris: 'Get an amendment'. You told us. You who are the state, which you have all the evidence that you have been talking about for a long time with the banks, should have discussed with the banks, see what elements are and agree with them on the rewarding of consistent borrowers who in the crisis have actually been deprived of their lives, their business, in order to meet their obligations and be consistent. It is fair to say that yesterday you also tabled an amendment for 30 billion euros for the banks. Couldn't any money be channelled through this money to the consistent borrowers? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a very low tolerance, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously the majority of citizens seeking or entering the regulation are not strategic bad-payers, but our fellow citizens who wish, but are unable to fulfil their obligations, and we must provide them with an operational framework that will enable them to repay their debts. So that's the target. The question also remains what will happen in the transitional phase between the old and the new protection frameworks and what will happen with the pending applications of the Katseli Act, which have been requested to be examined by an electronic platform on the basis of the eligibility criteria laid down by the old first residence protection scheme. The question is, of course, when this notorious electronic platform will be ready. The New Democracy, as I said at the beginning - to answer Mr Kegeroglu - will vote for this amendment, despite the fact that we do not think it gives the desired solution to the question of the growth of private debt and needs significant improvements, which we as government tomorrow will try to bring. We will vote on this amendment because no citizen should be denied the possibility of regulating his debts and of course even the few to protect their residence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u305	Finish it, Mr. Bourra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u306	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute, if I may. The reality is, you're too late, and so valuable time is lost. I would just like to remind those who do not know it - because you are constantly accusing us - of the fact that the New Democracy, when it was in power, has always given full support to the first residence until the end that it left and left to you to regulate the matter. You have done nothing and you are now coming to do it electionly and naughtyly and without it being right. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that in general the way in which you legislate is unacceptable. You are bringing whole bills in the form of amendments at the last minute, so that there is no debate on the amendments at all and there is no hearing of bodies at all. This is the definition of the deterioration of Parliament. If there had been an excuse for urgency in the past because of the memorials, today you claim that you have emerged from the memoranda. What's the point? At least tell the truth and admit that we are in the fourth informal memorandum and that is what you are applying and you are still trying to load Greek citizens with weights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u307	The reason for this is that Mrs Megalo-Economist from SYRIZA, who is the last speaker and then, as we said before, we will have the seconds of special speakers and rapporteurs. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be a politician for forty-seven years and I know the banking system. I studied accounting and I know the banking system maybe better than you do. I know loans, loans, etc. I will begin with the role of the banks. I will start from how the banks granted the loans and whether the banks were moral experts when we arrived at this point, because from 1994 to 2006, moral entrants for the loans granted were the banks. I remember that banks were pushing consumers to take and competing with which bank to give most of the loans with a fictitious character. You found the cards down your door without checking if the people to whom the consumer loans were given had the backgrounds to pay them off. They did a fictitious thing to show fictional balances, fictional profits to shareholders, to increase only their shares. These were not controlled by anyone. When I participated in the Red Loan Conference that I spoke to at "King George" in 2017, there was the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Greece Mr.Mitrakos and I told him that we as entrepreneurs are controlled by the Monetary Committee and various others in the loans. The banks from whom were they controlled? They should have had the Securities Committee and above them the Bank of Greece. He said to me: "Sure, Mrs. Big Economics, it was our big mistake." This big mistake, who paid for it? The Greek taxpayer with the recapitalisations. Yes, gentlemen. You New Democracy and PASOK knew that. That's why the banks' shares arrived at these unthinkable heights, which is why the real estate reached those heights, because they were fictitious. It's all gorgeous. You knew what was going on and that these were fake. False hopes, fake dreams you were selling. You knew the stockup. You knew her. Falsely all, as with fake evidence, we entered the European Union. You knew everything. False evidence of Mr. Simitis. That's why we got where we came from. You of the New Democracy and of the PASOK. Mr Bourrai, you have said so much and so is the previous colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u309	I'll tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u310	You'll tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u311	Mrs. Big Economics, don't make any personal reports. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u312	I'll make personal reports because that's what the previous people talked about. The private debt arrived where it arrived, why did you give money to those who did not have, and when the time came to pay, have you seen the table "The cash seller and the credit seller"? When I believed, I took the risk. The banks, when they believed, had to take the risk, but they didn't take it, because they knew they were secured behind it. They knew they'd get recapitalisations because the shareholders didn't play their money, they wouldn't put back money. They would have had the Greek taxpayer, the Greek citizen covering these and covered them with two recapitalisations. Katseli's law did something, but it didn't include businessmen. They were only for natural faces. The others were throwing them in the void. Each businessman put his first residence as collateral and put his children as guarantors. The banks in the finest letters wanted and guarantors, and everyone, apart from their first home, put their mother, his grandfather, his uncle. The fine letters were said to "send a signature, which doesn't matter". But now we're chasing the rest of us, and if there's no borrower's got any fortune, they'll have five behind him. Besides, why did you make the law? Is it because you gave the loans that had no guarantee to the publishers, who admitted that we had 'air loans'? And you're making out the law - I wasn't a politician at the time - and you, gentlemen of PASOK, don't have the big executives or the bank governors. They have no responsibility. You relieved them because you were afraid they'd open their mouths.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u313	And the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u314	Sure. And the ministers. But now they'll talk. That's what's gonna look like in justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u315	But SYRIZA voted for it too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u316	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u317	As for the loans from the parties - do not laugh - they are 200 million of the New Democracy, 300 million of the PASOK. I even read that the New Democracy has not paid a single euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u318	Damn them!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u319	You haven't paid either. Get the settings you've made to see how much you've paid for. Even the four hundred years of slavery we have spent will not come to pay off the loans you have received. And don't yell, don't shake our finger. Your finger to move it elsewhere, gentlemen. For the first time, the loans that have been taken by entrepreneurs are also in place to protect their first residence. Even that's something to salvage what they can. These people were completely misled. Besides, although they have no money, they can go, having their clearing house proving that they have no money, in Evros, in building 16, where there are lawyers who pay them the Greek State, and take them, suspend the payment order and try to salvage what they can. Don't say it all black. Everyone can no longer sit on their couch, it can act. Don't tell them that they'll take everything away from you. Anyone can take luck in their hands. Stop scaring the people. The people can win if they want. And he'll win. I put the programme for the Red Loan Conference in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u320	The list of speakers has been completed and we are continuing with the seconds. I ask the rapporteurs and the special speakers if they agree for a five-minute period. As far as I can see, there's a deal. If we can keep up with the five-minute, it would be a wishful task. Mr. Sifakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u321	Thank you very much, Mr President. The bill, as proved, contains positive provisions for many sectors of the economy. It meets years of requests from many productive sectors, which remind me that as a whole - twenty-six to twenty-six - they were positive to hearing the bodies and thanked the ministers as well. Many amendments incorporate requests from the bodies that did not exist in the original text of the bill. That is why I consider it useful that the Acoustic Opposition, as well as the rest of the Opposition, should not tackle the amendments with the allegedly impressive moves, that 'we will not vote for them because they were many, because they have come last hour' and so on, but to vote in favour of what it thinks is right. The arrangements for the protection of the principal residence relate to a hundred and fifty thousand borrowers and 70% of those with red loans with addition or mortgage of their first residence. So we understand that it is a very useful arrangement, which will relieve the hard too many people waiting for it. It is also of particular importance that, for the first time, business loans, which have been attached to the first residence. Regardless of whether the amount of the amendment was reduced to EUR 100 000, it is very important, especially for small businesses that were added in order to do their job the personal property of their owner or other persons involved, to be able to have the possibility of this beneficial provision. It is also very important that the State participates in subsidising the payment of the instalment, throughout the arrangement, up to twenty-five years. The proposal on the need to reward consistent borrowers has been heard. And the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Drasakis and the committee today and Mr. Flabouraris told the committee that he was in the government's thoughts and has been discussing it since 2016 with the banks. He said he would take a legislative initiative next time in this direction, after consultation and consultation with banks and borrowers. It's something that can and must be done. Of course, what we cannot notice is the impressive piece of shit, I would say, of the New Democracy, which, while not long ago - last month and yet - denounced the government, on the question of protecting the first home, was glad about the alleged failure of the government, the alleged failure of the negotiation, now comes and votes for this regulation. And this at the end of 2014, when he lost the elections in January 2015, left the main home unprotected as of 1 January 2015 and had to be within the Cylon at the beginning of 2015 to resolve this problem, in order to keep the protection of the first place for red-loans borrowers. The large expansion of the problem of red loans that brought problems and the guarantee of the first home, after such a loan had been received, was made on the catastrophic policies between 2010 and 2014 that devastated the income of the employees, wages, pensions, brought the bunkers. Within four years a million jobs were lost, without being created in seventeen years, with 3% to 4% growth rate. You understand that the life of society, the life of the world, has changed, and that has brought enormous problems. As far as development law is concerned, I again wonder why the New Democracy reacts to Law No.4399/2016, when more demands have been made in the law than had been made for many years with Law No.3908/2011. Some six hundred requests have already been approved, which are being made. Let us not forget that six thousand unpaid investment projects have left us with about 5 billion commitments, which we are trying to make, continue development law and have money to help the country's reconstruction with new investments. Finally, I would like to refer to the very important amendment that we are bringing about the change of responsibility of the members of the urban companies, which changed with No 4072/2012. Before this law, the mere members who did not belong to the board of directors or who did not have management responsibility for the civil companies were liable up to the amount of the company offer. Law 4072/2012 changed this and laid down that the mere members, who do not have management responsibility, are responsible for all the obligations of each other and to all. This has caused huge problems, particularly in rural areas, for example, the case mentioned earlier. In my area of Pella and specifically in Skydra, a group of producers that could be a cooperative worked in the form of the urban company. There, therefore, this company created economic issues. The money went in from 1993 to 2002. In 2003, there were large fines which, with the surcharges, interest and additional taxes, have been made for a sum of EUR 4 million each producer of EUR 5 000, 10,000, of EUR 20,000, of EUR 30 000. So you understand that these people were trapped and a solution had to be found. We are also giving a solution today with an amendment of No 4072/2012. And I ask Mr Karasmanis, who does what he does, does not know and makes the unscrupulous and is trying to plunder already: who was a government? Wasn't he a Member himself? Twenty-two years, if I am not wrong, Mr Karasmani, and this programme is twenty-five years old and your people have created it? Why didn't you do anything? Also, since 2012, you haven't been a MP? Weren't you in the government of Samara Venizelou? Why didn't you change Law 4072/2012 that we are now changing? It is not a law of 2015, 2016, 2017. It's a law of 2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u322	Mr. Sifakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u323	So you have a huge responsibility. You afflicted these people. And you come now that we have found a way, at the same time as they are going to the prosecutor - yesterday you know that a hundred farmers were in the prosecutors for criminal liability and that the prosecutor asks for EUR 44 million jointly and throughout - and we have been able to postpone, and we have received a postponement, giving me a piece of paper that says we will legislate immediately and give them a postponement. 174-2019 is the second court. We are talking about a thousand two hundred people who have courts and who ask for 4 million each and have criminal responsibility. And now that we find a way to change the Law 4072/2012 that you could a thousand times change it from 2012 to 2015 that we, you speak and plunder not to pay their corporate responsibility, that is, 30, 50, 100 euros. They laugh when farmers hear them, when so far they owe 4 million each other and all. In fact, you are trying to hide your enormous responsibility through this real populism that I denounce. And farmers understand what's going on. This regulation saves and delivers the thousands of two hundred farmers in our region and, of course, many hundreds and thousands of farmers and others, such as members of urban companies and just members throughout Greece. I would even say that the way you have dealt with it, Mr Karasmanis, the subject and the previous debate imply other things. You may try to make oil for the first. On behalf of the first generations you have spoken and not on behalf of the farmers. The rural world will account for all this in the next few years. In conclusion, the bill introduces useful provisions that help the country's economy and development, which mobilise production forces, at the same time that this is exactly what is needed for the country. And so we call on Parliament's parties to vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u324	Mr. Dimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Karasmani, because he's been mentioned now...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u327	He can't pass like this. It has been mentioned here personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u328	Okay, I understand, but did any of the things you said distort?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u329	We need to put things in place for how this came about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u330	Warm request, Mr Karasmanis, in a minute to expose what you want to say. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, in the twenty-three years I have never made a personal attack on any colleague. I respect the institutional role. I know that it is the wishes of each of my colleagues, but there is a government that does not. From there on, I see, for the first time, the "first time left" stands out for people and put labels on them, distinguishing them politically and, furthermore, people who have been unanimously acquitted by the Court of Appeal to classify them as defendants, primates. From there on, the subject of "Athena", Mr. President, reached a peak in 2015. Let them find a post, a press release referring to this issue before 2015. Even since 2017, farmers have started dragging them into court. Four years, then, these people are afflicted. They have promised them that they will be relieved and that they will not pay a single euro and they will come today and bring an amendment half and a stumbling-up. And he'll pay the value of the cooperative share that no one knows who it is. Will it be five hundred? Is it gonna be a thousand? Two thousand? That's the point. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u332	Good. Mr. Dimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u333	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u334	For a second, no? Good. Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u336	And neither are you a dentist? You don't want to or want to do it later?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u337	I don't wish to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u338	All right, let's clarify it. Mr Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. The Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economy, Drasakis, as usual, is absent when the Golden Dawn speaks. He referred to his position and even mentioned that we were out of the memorials and in order to support it, he said that this is one of the reasons why today's amendment effectively abolishes the Katseli Act, No.3869. Really, if that really is the case, and we have come out of the memorandum, why has one billion has not been disbursed? What exactly happened if we no longer account for the loan sharks? And the fact that it has absolutely no knowledge of it gives me the right to question the information provided by the institutions and by the representative of the Greek banks, but also on the Bank of Greece's side, precisely the move made by the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Economy within the committee. It's something most Members have seen, I imagine. Before the committee began, it went down the road, went to the representative of the Greek banks and begged her to tell him a number - if possible the Minister of Economy did not know, not to have a picture of the percentage of those who would benefit from this amendment - and said to her: "Tell me a percentage, with some discrepancy even upwards." Is that possible? I mean, with what evidence? And after these agencies, the Bank of Greece's representative, like the bank representative, came, why didn't they submit any written evidence at all? What they said in the questions that were asked was simply spoken out of mouth. Where does the 70% rate come from? As a bank or as a bank of Greece, it should have done an investigation into the extent to which this figure emerges. We did not have any such information today during the debate in plenary and also in committees. So there's a lady who represents the banks and says: 'It's about 70%'? Elements, ma'am, evidence! How and where? Is this about the amount of loans, like, 70%? He didn't mention anything I'm saying. Was it about loans that are up to 175,000 and 250,000 euros? These are completely arbitrary. What has been said within the committee by the institutions has not in any way been substantiated. And I call on the State Secretary to prove exactly the opposite of his position. The bankers came, they said what they wanted, and unfortunately some of the Members of the parliament took it and ran, made it a flag. They were both clear. The Bank of Greece's representative referred to percentages of the amounts. He said that 85 billion euros, of this money due, will be set at 10%. He did not speak of borrowers, as opposed to the bank representative who said that 90% of non-performing loans relate to 70% of borrowers. You're playing with numbers. In one case we will agree that it must be protected in every way, especially the mid- and low-income borrower - we are not discussing it - but none of those who have the ability and the ability to pay money and have stopped. But in the other case, they should explain everything that I mentioned. That is to say, in short, that many people owe little and few. But the question that arises and has been raised by some previously is the many ways in which they will be taken. Because 90% of outstanding loans will remain unpaid. What measures will your Government take? We have heard absolutely nothing, as we have heard no one today in the House or in the committees either ask questions about what will happen with those who are rejected or unable to pay. There are too many issues. The amendment you have tabled and you have presented as care for the protection of first residence is not at all such. It is clear that, as I have said before, only those who have incomes and can cope, as I have said, with some sort of regulation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Unfortunately, however, several of them during the course will also declare weakness due to a reduction in their own income. So, what care are we talking about? When someone is unemployed or has no income, what exactly are we talking about? In the seventeen articles of the amendment, there is absolutely no mention, as I said before, of the economically weak or those who are rejected. For them, do you have anything to suggest to protect them, protect their first residence? As for the percentage you have said, for 70%, this does not come from anywhere so that I can accept it. And believe me, I have the good will and will to vote on something that concerns a large part of the Greek people, but none of them have convinced me. Two gentlemen, bankers whose homes and property the Greek people have saved and are invited today, the gentlemen for whom the Greek people have made the recapitalisation, to come and move their hands to those who have fallen into poverty, not by their own fault and to call them "I will decide as a bank who will save his home". If that's possible! We are asking for immediate protection for the first residence for at least two categories of borrowers, and they, as I have said, are the ones who have the possibility of entering this arrangement - that is the one part. And those who cannot be regulated, because there is no fault of their own, no longer have people's incomes, are unemployed, have their shops closed, are you exempting them from the protection of their first home? Do you consider that caring? Are you all right? I'm a freelance professional. What he was collecting 15 and twenty years ago has absolutely nothing to do with what he is collecting today, whether he is a free professional, whether he is a farmer, a farmer, or a scientist. You'll have to adjust all of this. What your government should impose on the banks is the following. We all know very little how a loan is being given by a bank. When someone goes and makes the request for a loan contract, the bank calls him and interviews him. Through this interview, the bank sees whether it meets the conditions if it has income to give it the corresponding loan it asks, whether it is business, whether it is consumer or housing. There is something similar that you should have brought to this amendment today. You should force bankers to interview all borrowers individually, to see which of them with tax information can support and prove, indeed, that they are able to regulate and be accepted. For all the others who will prove that they cannot pay a dose, that's where the welfare welfare state comes in, which you should prove, who you support as leftists.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u340	Good. Finish, Mr. Shahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u341	I shall conclude, Mr President. Absolute first residence protection for those who cannot pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u342	Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr President. I will not repeat issues that we have raised in the debate all day. I would like to focus on three issues where, due to time, we have not been able to present our views. The first concerns the two amendments concerning the workers in the Greek Sugar Industry. We will vote on these amendments because we want to support the rights of workers. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, in no case should this vote be taken as a discharge of the responsibilities of both the SYRIZA Government and the previous PASOK and New Democracy Governments for the sugar industry today. And because some wonder, today that the Greek industry of Zecharis has applied to the Banking Code. That's where you drove her. We are talking about the only Sugar Industry in our country where it is the SYRIZA Government that will put the last padlock on the last factories - that is what I mean by the "last" - in Platy and Orestiad. And because there was a lot of discussion here today, what was the fault of driving into this situation, in this result? On the occasion of the debate on the bill, you have had water today in the name of the market and of healthy competition. I remember Mr Tsakalotou's words today with the two pillars and so on. for the functioning of the market. However, this competition and the functioning of the market operates on the basis of the profits of the monopolies of the European Union that are also active in this sugar sector. This function and competitiveness led to the concentration and concentration of production in this sector and not only of course. It led to the decline in production and the quotas mentioned in the European Union' s debate further exacerbated the problem and finally made sugar production unprofitable. Do you remember or do you not know that you were all supporting and supporting the European Union's common agricultural policy? Were you in favour of or against quotas? Leave it to be that, based on the function of profit, when a business is not profitable, we know that in this system, in capitalism, it closes. He doesn't keep hurting. There was a period when, despite the fall in quotas, farmers did not waste, because they did not even cover the cost of production and did not catch the quota rate. What do I want to say in a few words, to close? Needs, despite the fact that the factories are closing - and today they are closing in both Platis and Orestiad - for sugar consumption of the Greek people cannot be satisfied, because the economy is precisely designed to operate on the basis of profit. They're closing factories because they don't get a profit. The needs, however, remain. Result? The Greek Sugar Industry, since it had no profits, took loans, could not repay them, and the Industry passes to Piraeus Bank. The banking group, of course, does not care to satisfy the people's needs for sugar, but the only thing he cares about is his profits and in this particular case, get back the funds he gave. So all the resolution plans implemented by both previous governments and the SYRIZA were intended to get its money back, the creditor, Piraeus Bank, and secure its interests. These consolidation plans you have served all the governments, the old and new staff, as you say, and that is why you have huge responsibilities. Neither did the customs producers concern you with sugar production in our country. Today there is no application for butter crops or a single acre. There will not be a single acre this year, i.e. a single acre. Customs producers are unpaid. Let me remind you that last year the shipowners were paid with a loan they took from another bank. If I remember correctly, it was a Collaborative of the Serres. What about these issues, Minister? How will you guarantee that these customs producers will not be in trouble? So this is the harsh reality and you all have huge responsibilities. The second point I would like to raise concerns the ministerial amendment for management bodies. We disagree and vote against all the articles that have been incorporated through this amendment, because firstly you seek greater government control with the introduction of the Secretary-General as President of the Commission and, secondly, draws attention to visitors of the parks and the protected areas by ticket, which are essentially moving towards competitivity, while the responsibility for the protection of the national parks has the state. Thirdly, we believe that management bodies need to be abolished and that the minimum powers they have, must go to the state which, of course, has the responsibility of protecting both the national parks and the protected areas and the workers who are currently working in these bodies, that everyone should be recruited - but all of them! - the respective government departments. You, with your regulations and criteria, do not guarantee all the workers who are currently working in these bodies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, we have no objections and we shall vote - and I shall end, Mr President - on the relevant articles of the People's Markets Act and the conditions for professional activity in the construction, maintenance and repair of a number of specialities. Let's not mention them. But I would like to point out the following: our position is that vocational training must be provided exclusively and free of charge from the public education system. The leave to pursue a profession must have as one of the sole conditions the corresponding degrees they receive and, where necessary, the necessary pre-service. Our position is that these permits do not need to be renewed and that the necessary modernisation of technical knowledge during professional careers is done under the responsibility of the Ministry. Therefore, in this case, there is no need for committees of inquiry or for collective bodies to resolve this issue. The problem, however, is that today there are a large number of young people who have studied in private schools, have corresponding courses and cannot work. Also, the lack of a mechanism - i.e. these licensing committees - prevents many specialties in technical professions. That is why we are going to vote on these articles. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. We will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr Giannakides, to conclude the debate and proceed to the vote. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. I shall be very brief that we have had a long process both at committee level and at plenary level. I will try to focus on two - three issues, which, unfortunately, are constantly repeated as political arguments, as a perception. One thing has to do with an attempt to account to SYRIZA for all the tragic events that have occurred in this country, for the launch of public debt, for the launch of unemployment, for the destruction of the production base, an attempt that, in essence, after the political change of January 2015, the power parties, the New Democracy and the PASOK who handled the golden periods of growth, but also the first two fiscal adjustment programmes, have found an excuse for all the sufferings in the first half of 2015. But what they artificially forget in their arguments is that after the summer compromise, the country was led to elections. SYRIZA government took a fresh order and we had a difficult task, that is to say, to get out of the time of the memorials, something that was achieved in August 2018. We have also managed to take the very important debt regulation, a regulation that gives rise to a clear corridor for the economy, at least for the next 10 years. It is extremely important that the political dialogue develops with arguments based on reality, on the real elements and on the real challenges that we have before us. Exiting from the memorials obviously does not imply a return to the pre-crisis period in an automatic way. It means, however, that we have much higher degrees of freedom and to develop our policies and to implement them, which we have shown recently by abolishing the underpaid wage and increasing the minimum wage. From the point of view of the Ministry of Economy and Development, we would say that it is extremely important that the debate on what should be the development strategy that should be followed by the country in the next few years, in order to take advantage of all the positive prospects of the Greek economy, take advantage of the financial tools and programmes available to us and manage to build a memorandum Greece and move forward, not allowing extreme neoliberal forces that flirting with the extreme right, to return us to the dark times of the memorandum. Within this framework, one of the main priorities of the government and the Ministry of Economy is the next 2021-2027 programming period. It is extremely important that this negotiation which has already begun and should be understood that all the political forces must be placed and selected on which side they are, that is, if they are on the side that seek to strengthen cohesion policies or if they are with the forces that seek to build a Europe - fortress, away from the needs of its people. Certainly, this process is very important and the struggle is daily at all levels. In this sense, too, the battle of the European elections is of its own importance and of its very important importance. The amendment on the protection of the first home is of the opinion that it is a fundamental effort and initiative of the government, which is based on the social interest, and is governed by three basic principles: social, fiscal - that is, the resources that the government can make available to poor households - and the situation of banks. It is clear that our position is on the side of borrowers and we are trying to reach the best possible agreement for those in danger of losing their homes. Many of us have shown that we have been with the majority of Greek citizens who have fought a very hard struggle in recent years. We believe that it is extremely important and it should be noted that in relation to the protection of the first home Greece is the only country in Europe where the regulation on the protection of first home also includes business loans, which we should emphasise with particular emphasis. Just as the regulation we have been discussing today is a special regulation that we have announced for some time on the status of first home protection, we consider, as the Ministry of Economy and Development, that a very painful effort has been made throughout the four-year period of the government's central direction to the country's productive reconstruction and to support a development strategy now available to Greece, a product of consultation with local institutions, with local government in the context of the debate which has been opened in 2007 at the regional development conferences held throughout Greece. On the basis of this coherent plan, dozens of financial instruments and programmes have been designed and implemented to strengthen the real economy. It is indicative that, for the next three years, all the funding that can be made available to the economy is EUR 7 billion, a sum that levers private and other resources in excess of EUR 5 billion, with global investments that can reach EUR 12 billion over the next three years. As far as public investment and the Public Investment Programme are concerned, we will have the opportunity to discuss this shortly with the deposit of a very important bill, which is coming to reform the institutional framework for the EIF, which is already dating back to the 1950s. One of our main options, within the framework of the ESDP's operational programme, is small and medium-sized enterprises. Indicatively and very briefly, I should like to say that almost all of the actions under the ESDP have a particularly high private demand and with the establishment of new tourist units, an initial budget of 120 million. We have finally led to an increase of EUR 600 million. In addition to the initial budget, increases have been given for the Digital Alma and Stepa, as well as for the almost all of the actions, which demonstrates that the Greek economy and especially the small and medium-sized enterprises in particular have left behind the stress and difficult periods that had passed in recent years and are trying to take steps forward. I would like to make a very important and very brief reference to the questions of young people and the famous Brain Drain, which is often heard and referred to in Parliament's Chamber. We have not, however, heard about the causes of Brain drain, which is largely the structure of the Greek economy and the lack of businesses that produce knowledge and technology-intensive services. This - let me turn to a small parentheses - demonstrates the disastrous or nonexistent development plan that existed in the past, a growth that had been based on consumption rather than on the production of high quality products with export orientation and exploitation of the country's skilled and highly trained scientific potential. In cooperation with the Ministry of Education we have achieved in the current NSRF the total public expenditure on research and innovation amounting to EUR 1.5 billion, more than twice the previous programming period. The majority of these resources are directed at interventions linked to the'smart skills' strategy, its research and its connection to production. A lot we could say, but what is particularly important and worth keeping is that this government, in spite of the difficulties, despite the pitfalls, despite the difficult rivals it has at all levels, both at European Union and within the country, is determined not only to return to bad practices of the past, but to succeed in building and implementing the development strategy now available to the country, a development strategy that the former government had put forward at Eurogroup level in a text of just eight pages, a development strategy that makes the country a leader in development in the Balkans. We will use all the tools we have at our disposal and all the infrastructure that we have started. We have restarted projects that had been stuck in the past, such as the metro of Thessaloniki. To thank the New Democracy at this point, which in the past few days has also made a detailed presentation of the work of the Government in terms of the infrastructure. Especially for northern Greece, we now consider that we have all those elements that can make Thessaloniki and Macedonia both and eastern Macedonia and Thrace a protagonist in northern Europe. But in order to make progress forward, we believe that one of the main conditions is to strengthen internal social cohesion, to ensure that there are no conflicts within society, which is artificially and unequivocally and often the New Democracy itself is cultivating. It is worth stressing that the majority of the world - particularly the new generation - have other priorities, such as combating unemployment and productive reconstruction. In this direction we will work with the vast majority of Greek society, which will also be reflected in the October 2019 elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u346	In this respect, the debate on the principle of the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development is hereby declared as follows: ‘Introducing Greek legislation with Directive (EU) 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of know-how and business information not disclosed (commercial secrecy) against illegal acquisition, use and disclosure (OJ L 157, 15.6.2016) - Measures to speed up the work of the Ministry of Economy and Development and other provisions’. Their vote will be taken separately. As you know, a request has been made for a roll-call vote on Articles 68 to 84 of the draft law by Members of the Democratic Alliance. The roll-call vote will take place tomorrow, Friday, 29 March 2019 at 12.30 p.m. We are informing that the rapporteurs and the special speakers of the draft law should remain tomorrow after the roll-call vote to vote on the farewell article and the whole draft law. We note that the bill contains seventy articles and seven amendments. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right-hand side of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time and it is essential to make sure that you have voted for the principle, all the articles and amendments. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u347	That concludes the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u348	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u349	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘The harmonisation of Greek legislation by Directive (EU) 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of know-how and business information which has not been disclosed (commercial secrecy) from the illegal acquisition, use and disclosure of Greek legislation (OJ L 157, 15.6.2016) — Measures to speed up the work of the Ministry of Economy and Development and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on Articles 1 to 67 and 85 to 95 and on the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-28-S1-commons.u350	With the consent of the House at 22.28', the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, March 29, 2019 at 12.30', on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) Parliamentary control, topical questions debate; and (b) legislative work, roll-call vote on Articles 68 to 84, vote on the noun article and on the whole draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Completion of Greek legislation by Directive (EU) 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of know-how and business information which have not been disclosed (commercial secrecy) against the illegal acquisition, use and disclosure of (OJ L 157, 15.6.2016) - Measures to speed up the work of the Ministry of Economy and Development and other provisions’.
