ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval 5-6-2019, PLA's minutes of the PLA's PLA's minutes were confirmed by the Bureau on Wednesday, June 5, 2019, with regard to:]] 1) taking a decision on the unanimous proposal of the Conference of Presidents of 4 June 2019 2) the adoption of all the draft laws of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: (a) 'Clarification of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Azerbaijan on the protection of the environment and other provisions'. (b) 'Preparation of the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and fair and equitable distribution of the benefits arising from their use, to the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity and other provisions'. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Transparency and Human Rights: 1) "Following the Criminal Code" and 2) "Following the Code of Criminal Procedure". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 4 June 2019 to discuss and vote for the bills at a single meeting in principle and on the whole. Before I give the floor to the Minister of Justice, I should like to inform my left-wing members of the Commission of the new draft Criminal Code, which are as follows: President Christoforos Argyropoulos, lawyer, former honorary President of the Association of Greek Criminalists. Ms. Ellie Symiidou - Kastanidou, Quaestor of the Law School of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. Mr Stefanos Paulou, Professor of Law Democritus University. Mr. Georgios Dimitriinas, Professor at the Law School of Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. Mr. Ilias Anagnostopoulos, Professor of Law of Athens. Mr. Demosthenis Strigas, President of the Primary, Permanent Greek Representation in Brussels. Mr. S. Madagiozidis, Ice Bay Attorney. P. Kazis, lawyer. H.Janakakis, judge of the Ice Bay. Likewise, in the Committee on Planning and the Code of Criminal Procedure, the members of the Commission - I imagine - are: The President, Mr Theocharis Dalakouras. Mr. Panagiotis Brakoumatsos, Deputy Attorney of the Ice Bay. Mr. Athanasios Zachariadis, Assistant Professor of Law, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. Mr.Ioannis Genidis, Professor of Law, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Hellenic Society of Criminal Law. Mr. Evangelos Chasalis, Prosecutor's Attorney. Mr. Charalambos Sevastidis, President of the Primary. Mr. Aristomeni Zenetis, Assistant Professor of National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Association of Greek Ponicians. Mr. Vassilis Diakopoulos, Lawyer, representative of the Athens Bar Association. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaos, Deputy Prosecutor of Ephetus and Mr Dimitrios Syonides, Assistant Professor of Democritus University of Thessaloniki. We thank them for their presence here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u3	Wait a minute. I'll give you the floor, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u4	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u5	You too, of course. The Minister of Justice, Mr. Kalogerou, asked to precede. We're listening, Mr. Kaloger.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I understand the point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u7	I want a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u8	You want to make a point of order. Mr President, it is in your judgment whether they will be taken before the procedural questions. What I wanted to raise at the start of the debate is an issue which is currently of great concern to both public opinion and political parties. I therefore think that, since procedural issues are to be raised before I clarify a point of order, I think that I am going to do so, because it is a matter of substance. So we will come back after the point of order, indeed. You will simply allow me to comment on the point of order, which I imagine will be raised, because it has already been raised in committee yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, thank you very much for giving me the floor to the fundamental issue of the procedure, which concerns us. I would also like to thank you for your position yesterday in this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, in front of this committee, which has been so diligent and for so long has really tortured two very important texts for human life, the text that organises the protection of legal goods, the degree of protection of it, and the text that organises criminal justice, the most fundamental, that is, texts for people's lives in organised modern societies, I very much regret that they are almost more than we Members, because the government has chosen this unacceptable anti-constitutional procedure to be here today. Mr President, Article 1(2) of the Constitution is violated, and Article 1(3), which stipulates that all powers are derived from the Greek people, as well as any articles still assembled in these most important first two provisions. The government, with the permission of the President of Parliament and of the majority, is also in breach of this, because, once we are on the way to elections, it is really regrettable that such an important effort should come here in an unconstitutional manner. Whatever has been said in the Conference of Presidents by a majority, it cannot support an opposite view. Furthermore, Mr President, things are getting a little worse as we go further. Two months ago, after an accidental debate I had with a senior prosecutor, of those who recently honoured the Conference of Presidents in her view, I won the proposal for some fundamental and important changes that are taking place, not to be delayed. For example, I am not ashamed to say - as the majority is ashamed - that Law 1608 had to change for decades. And I sent you here on that day of Minister, Mr. Janakopoulos, congratulations to you, to Mr. Kontonis and Mr. Paradapopoulos, perhaps. Critical, however, changes, necessary, had to leave this collective effort and come here with a small draft law to vote on them all together and we will do so. There are ten-year-olds-solving provisions and we are in favour, without being ashamed, Mr President, of what alpha and beta will tell us. But the government is ashamed! The government is ashamed to say what this text contains. It does not have the courage of the provisions, which it is responsible for being tabled here, after the wonderful work that has been done, to vote for, as the Constitution lays down. There are hundreds of provisions in which - the phrase is too sharp, I adopt it as I will say - they include'shorts and snakes'. There are provisions which, if the Greek people listen to them, will take a stand against those who took the initiative to vote. We will not even legalise the anti-constitutional procedure with our presence. What would you mind if this effort had been discussed, which when it comes to a meeting, as the President rightly said, we are voting in principle and in total? We do not have a debate here in plenary, we have a Constitution and Rules of Procedure, Rule 76(6) and Rule 111(3) of the Rules of Procedure. Obviously. But shouldn't the National Representation know what he's voting for? In the torment of criticism then, for provisions that the majority have not taken over the fact that they exist inside, what are you going to say? What are you going to say to the sudden protester in Athens about an order of rape? You are the government, which, two months ago, led the President of the Commission for the Protection of Fundamental Rights, Mr Stavropoulos, to resign, accompanied by the reluctance of the President of the European Network of Fundamental Rights to the Prime Minister himself, to whom this principle falls. You are the people who are working for rights in words. But we are not our words, we are our actions. That is why, Mr President, because the National Representation does not know what to vote on, the vote, which requires a debate on the principle and on the whole, does not mean that the National Representation will be ignorant of provisions which establish the protection of legal goods and the degree of protection of them. It is not possible for majority lawyers not to know what they have voted on. Because they don't know!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u11	Don't insult us, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u12	You insult the Greek people and the National Representation! You're... with this effort you're making today! [[Noise - protests]] The words are sharp, but they are worthy of them, to whom they are addressed. Mr. President, I'm closing. We asked for the government and the President of Parliament to respect the Constitution. It didn't happen. What are we looking for now? Because in the effort that has been done for so many years we have been sick, but we are not ashamed of our choices, we call them publicly...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u13	How does it appear to you that we are ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u14	Why didn't you have a conversation, colleague? Because the Standing Committee has all gone through. That's why you're embarrassed. Mr President, the Greek people must also be aware that the procedural organisation of this protection does not fall within the scope of these procedures. We are against, denounce, condemn and retire.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u15	I imagine, Mr Loverdo, that the '...' things are out of place in this Chamber. We have other expressions to oppose and I would ask you to consent to delete them from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u16	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. If the Euro-elections, which were held 12 days ago, had not been carried out, where the popular verdict brought SYRIZA down and the majority of his "towels", then you would have an excuse to bring this bill, since the Greek Parliament and Parliament would still work. With the results, however, which were very bad for your Government and with the fact that in about three weeks or so there will be national elections, we believe that all these actions, which are done on your part, have absolutely no meaning, lack seriousness and justify all those who say that you are serving absolutely specific interests, objectives or anything else. We too denounce this process. We leave and let you alone do whatever you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u19	Mr Emmanuel Syntakis has the floor from the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I am not going to make a particular speech. We were also placed in the committee yesterday, and we consider it appropriate in plenary to take a position on this issue, assuming that the time chosen, to come to debate and vote in the House - in the middle of an election period - the drafts of the new Criminal Code and the new Code of Criminal Procedure, the way that the Government introduces it, such as urgent procedures, together with the fact that they concern very serious legislation, which, in our view, are very serious, and the system of penalties and the awarding of criminal justice to our country, does not seem to us to be in agreement. The government had all the power to bring it to the House earlier. He did not do so and that raises serious questions for us. In our view, it is a moderation on the part of the government to go through as - as serious as legislation - so that the people do not get a lot of trouble over the serious and dangerous changes in these two new codes. The JRC is therefore led to the decision to withdraw from the debate and vote on the new codes. We are not going to engage in such purposes, nor are we going to legalise such procedures, nor, of course, the essence of the codes, which strengthen the criminal arsenal of the bourgeoisie of our country and of the respective government, by shrinking even more democratic rights and popular freedoms. Let the government look elsewhere for regularity and narratives, as the Minister said yesterday, seeking to block the debate and vote of the bill. First of all, in the same way, as it has been used to the parties in the New Democracy and KINAL, which, as it seems, has made them very happy as the process has evolved, in order to turn this issue into a rampant and pointless confrontation to disorientate the people. This is because, in essence, they do not express substantial disagreements with the content of the new Codes, which was also agreed by officials from both the New Democracy and the Change Movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will then be on the list of parliamentary representatives. I think that the Minister and the President of Parliament should be given the lead, and then we should normally get into the process. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u22	I am not surprised by Mr. Loverd's behavior and statements. What each one of us says, and in particular what Members in this Chamber say, is their position, they characterise themselves, they characterise their democratic morality, their quality, their honesty, their dignity. What he said, even invoking the seriousness and the science of the members of the legislator's committee, is a direct attack on the faces and members of the two prefectures who have worked for at least four years, in order to complete these two projects, but also an in-depth effort to reform and amend the criminal trial in the country. Faced with an honest act of political ethics by the Prime Minister of the Government and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, that is to say immediately after the result of the European elections that a political commitment should be made, in relation to the proclamation of the national elections, both the New Democracy and the KINAL, with its monitoring behaviour, indicative of the relationship and identification of these two parties, they have decided to devise a well-founded constitutional argument for denomination, both of which, according to the Constitution, normally exercises its duties and of Parliament, which has not been dissolved. They display a broken-up parliament, delegated to the government. That's their target. They use, as they can, any means to convince them in this regard. The Change Movement, shortly after the issue that was also raised by the law and the Constitution, respecting the pre-selection procedure in the leadership of the Supreme Courts - a representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Venizelos - called on the government at least to show consensus behaviour and to legislate on codes. Mr. Loverdos in the past, like today, what did he invite us to do? To abolish the law on public abuses. What should we do? To do what these political forces have done all these years in the Criminal Codes: fragmentary amendments, in order to achieve concrete political or allegedly criminal arguments, fragmentary legislation, which has led to the situation that the legal world, the judge, the lawyer and, above all, the citizens with this criminal bubble, which has been created over these years by these fragmentary amendments to the Criminal Codes. I am very ashamed, because what we have been talking about yesterday is confirmed in committee. Both the Change Movement and the New Democracy are attempting to create another argument, not to take a stand against these top two legislations, so that the next day they can create any illusory argument, any distortion of criminal provisions, because they have learned so too. This process comes and came today. Why is one of the reasons in relation to the voting time, the public consultation, which was preceded and which was extended at whose request? The Change Movement. In the course of the public consultation representatives of all the parliamentary groups visited the Ministry, present in the members of the legislative committees, in order to make comments. The comments were made. Many of the comments and amendments were incorporated in order to achieve what existed until the day before yesterday, namely a broad consensus in relation to these two codes, which artificially, the next day for both micro-political reasons and with absolute hypocrisy, appear today, allegedly complaining about a fast track process, which hides'scores and snakes'. It is a revelation of their intentions that the statement by Mr Loverdou and the Movement of Change, because we did respect it, we extended public consultation. But it was a pity - and it is a pity - that two such important legislations after all this course, all that lasted to end up where they ended up and all the previous draft penal codes in the Minister's drawer, because no one had the political power and responsibility, as this government and this parliamentary group had to carry out reforms, which no one else dared for reasons of guilt, political guilt. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] An issue has been created which we have seen and which has also been understood by the members of the legislature. It even led, if I have been properly informed, to the President of the Change Movement in statements today. This will begin, we will legislate in the House and the political representatives of the two parties will be placed out of Parliament. This is the measure of their political responsibility, their positions being made out of here, not here. There is therefore a debate on the question of the definition of rape, Article 336. There was one, I think, in the right direction, legislative initiative and correction after public consultation by the Committee on Legal Affairs. I'll be brief. Today we read that rape is a flood. Not applicable. It is inconceivable that these things should be written with such ease. A felony is being punished by imprisonment for 15 years. It's a lie that's a flood. It is punished as a felony when it is committed by violence or a threat of serious and significant danger associated with the life or physical integrity of the victim. In fact, it is no longer only the conduct of intercourse or other ungodly act, but every sexual act and equal treatment of these conducts is punished. Also, felony is fatal rape. Also, a felony is when it is committed by more perpetrators. Also - and we pointed it out yesterday in the debate in the committee - Article 338 provides for the execution of a genetic act against a victim who cannot for any reason - I repeat, for any reason - resist. In other words, what we talked about with Mrs Cavvadia, the victim who is 'freezing'. There was also a provision, paragraph 5 of Article 336, which also provoked this debate, where it tried to penalise any other behaviour with a flood, with the anticipated sentence of three to five years, which, according to the new draft of the Criminal Code, would be exceptional. This article, I repeat, was added after the public consultation. According to this provision, rape is considered to be any threat of an illegal act. Now, the last issue requires an awareness of this change, that is, of criminal escalation. The fact that, in paragraph 5, this penalty framework was provided for three to five years in prison, which will be estimated, appears to be unacceptable to the public by the movements. There is suddenly another paradox for a government and a parliamentary group, which has so much legislated in the field of rights. So many initiatives have been taken. We cannot appear as the Group of the European People's Party, the Government and the Ministry of Justice, which has suddenly decided to protect the rapists and rape. In consultation - and this is what needs to be taken into account, before entering into the substantive debate of the Codes - with the members of the legislative committees and because they are present and because we can do so, with a legislative improvement, paragraph 5 will be corrected in order to ensure that there is a proper balance between criminal law and any other behaviour in relation to the provisions of Article 336. We will come back with it and with other legislative improvements that we have already discussed yesterday by the committees in order to stop this debate. And the Potami in its parliamentary process in recent years also has stood up to the defence of rights and freedoms and to all the bills concerning this sensitive area. That is why I would also like it to be known to the Potamian parliamentarians that what they are concerned about at the moment and that will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u23	The President of Parliament, Mr Nikos Voutsi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into the essence of today's debate or the political debate that has evolved. Obviously, I deplore the fact that the parliament has been operating for two weeks in unconstitutional etc. We all know that, since the Prime Minister says on Monday, he will go to the President of the Republic and recommend that this period of Parliament be closed today and tomorrow are the last plenary sessions. And I take the opportunity that the chosen officials of justice are present, to say a few things, and at the end of the day to mention another matter. So, at the end of this four-year period, and in difficult circumstances, I would like to tell you, for my part, that we have tried to move in full institutional commitment on the sensitive points where the independent powers under the Constitution come in contact with issues described in the Constitution as well. And there were a lot of these moments in these years. It was a lot of times that, as a result of Rule 86, which is clear that it will change in the next House now - we did everything we could do as a proposing parliament. Repeatedly we have dealt with and there has been a correspondence - let me speak - with the prosecutors, with the Ministry, with the interrogators, on a number of very serious issues. There have been committees of inquiry, legislators have emerged from this experience, and there has been an absolute commitment and encouragement and assistance to the judiciary whenever and where requested, to make it clear that the political system is now determined on the very crucial issues - which, in the conscience of our people, are very serious questions - whether it has done for itself a veil of immunity, to leave completely from this time. We fully respect the justice, its officials and its decisions. And we had the opportunity for four years in successive hearings, which the Conference of Presidents had with all the highest and highest courts, to hear and free to make our proposals, our assessments, the small lists on the basis of which from there and beyond the present system of appointment of the members of the Supreme Courts, to give them to the Government. Also, there were in this House whenever it needed to be adopted by a majority of four-fifths of all the independent authorities who, according to the Constitution, were provided for, hearings and very important work in this area, as did the successive ministers of the present government, brought legislation which was passed and which, by common accord, I heard in the hearings with the highest judges - helped with crucial issues, such as speeding up the administration of justice and other matters. That's all I think is important. Even in decisions - legislation which has been rejected - there were few cases, but I would like to mention them, I do not want to forget that - that they were on the line or that they had some unconstitutional provisions, the House has appealed, adjusted. The ministers brought in new formalities, brought in new articles, and at the end there was a harmonisation and with the decisions of the relevant courts on these matters. I felt the obligation to say this before you and before the National Representation, because I really believe that good functioning, good cooperation and, above all, absolute respect for the independence of legislative power and judiciary shields what I believe we have served, namely an institutional commitment to the functioning of democracy. Mr President, in closing and believing that I am interpreting the whole of parliamentarians and forces, at least in democratic terms, I feel obliged to say that, on the occasion of yesterday's official response from the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the very crucial issue that this House opened and the Government at the request of the House in a financial communication, I would like to make the issue of the indemnity claim, in this case Germany, as yesterday's total honour for the end of the World War, and as we all realise that in the 21st century we must not let any country, particularly the countries that have a particular interest in these matters, in this case Germany, as yesterday there has been all the leaders of the countries' honouring the end of the World War and as we all realise that in the 21st century we must not let break the obsolete egg of the snake, because it has been brought to an end by means of a very serious and not abstructuous dialogue, but announctual one that must give rise to it must give rise to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. Mr Kontonis, former Minister for Justice, has requested the floor for a few questions. Mr. Contonis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate, two serious points - one is essentially procedural, and the other may seem the same, but, in my opinion, they are more essential - to the Minister in question. I have already heard the Minister say that the comments made in the consultation have been incorporated into the draft. So, do we have a different draft law than that delivered by the legislature? And what if this happened, was the law-making committee reconstituted by law? I don't want to extend my thinking, Minister. You understand what I'm asking. The second thing I want, Minister, and honourable Members: I appeal to both the Minister of Justice and to all Members present today in the Chamber, not to those who have chosen to be absent, on the question of the time of the entry into force of the Criminal Code. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think it is incomprehensible, through the judicial term, that, in twenty days' time, the new code will apply. Or it should apply from the beginning of the year or from 1 January, as most times. I do not want here to extend the reasoning that goes through my question, but please, Minister and honourable Members, I call not to apply from 1 July, as the new Criminal Code refers to the bill. And you realise why I say this and why I make this appeal to everyone. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Contonis. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u28	On the first point, I would like to inform you that both Preparatory Committees with ministerial decisions published on the basis of a specific authorisation are in operation, up to 15 June, on the Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, during the public consultation period, they were normally operational and were in force. A reformed legislative committee did not come to take account of the results of the public consultation. After the public consultation, therefore, the legislators continued to meet, the comments made by the relevant bodies, by the judicial associations, by the political parties and by the citizens and by the draft submitted last Monday were accompanied by a press release from the Ministry, in which they were submitted, so that it is easy for us all and to all of you, and the changes that have now been made to the submitted two projects, in relation to what was put in the public consultation and which we discussed yesterday. We have noted, in other words, the changes that existed between the texts that existed before the public consultation and then we will do so today. The question of time-limits for entry into force, because I too have been busy - generally, and there is arguments in general - will be discussed in the course of this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u29	For the second, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u30	We'll see it along the way. Right now it's July 1st.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u31	On the way, very nice. Mr. Contonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Minister has said that the question of the entry into force of the code will be dealt with by the end of the debate. That's what I understand, Minister, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u33	Yes, it is quite clear that we have 1 July and that there is exactly the opposite argument to the one you refer to, if the start-up time is postponed either in September or 1 January. So we will discuss these today, discuss them with the Members, and we will end up with them. The intention of the Ministry is the starting date for the present one in the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u34	And I hope that by the end of the debate we will have a shift in the Ministry's view of the time of entry into force. However, on the first point I raised, Minister, I have the impression that the legislatures - in fact in the Legislative Committee of the Code of Criminal Procedure, I do not even see the President of the legislature, established by law, Mr Pantellis - after the delivery of the draft, had completed their work and since time had not been extended at the time of their work, could not be given further. This is my personal approach, and I hope that something has been done here so that legality can be respected. And I say this, Minister, because if the law-making or the law-making makers had been reconstituted, there would have been no problem. Not at all! But with a ministerial decision to extend her life expectancy and, if I remember correctly, from September 2017, that is what I think is causing us a procedural, but a serious problem in the whole case. I repeat that this is not the case, but the time of entry into force of the Criminal Code. And please once again, Minister. I call on the Ministry not to rush and, as a parliament, to vote through the judicial term for changing the code, because you understand what the Association of Prosecutors has said, which is a moderate Union, does not like fireworks and a opposition speech against the government, such as the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, which has told us that we are inclined to become Turkey and Poland for two years now. On all these issues, please, I am making a dramatic appeal to the Code to be in force at least from 1 September, at the beginning of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u35	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u37	The Minister of Justice, Mr. Kaloger, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u38	You can understand, Mr Kontonis, since you have also been in the same position and you have dealt with the issue of the prefectures, there have been no plans of criminal Codes in Parliament, without the procedure being followed in terms of the legal composition, the setting-up of the legislative committees. Article 74 of the Staff Regulations of Officials and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities. 4139/2013: By decision of the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, the Committee is formed. On the basis of this authorisation, ministerial decisions are issued, which will also be tabled, in order to avoid any mistaken impression in this respect. The extensions were already made, from a previous term of office and from you, by acts and continued.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u39	At the time of operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u40	It has, in my opinion, been sufficiently clarified and the specific documents will be submitted, so that we do not create any impressions that we do not need.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u41	We're moving on. Mr. Lappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I feel the parliamentary and political obligation to speak for just a minute, on behalf of all the majority Members, about what Mr Lover's suggestion contained in the defiance, exaggerating and humiliating. Mr. Loverdos, Mr. President, two months ago, he was pulling our fingers here in Parliament, saying: 'Why don't you finally bring the codes? Why does the Legislative Committee not finish its work?' On a daily basis, he raised the matter to the Greek Parliament. And Mr. Loverdos is not just a MP, he's not just a fellow lawyer, he's also a university teacher. When he despises, when he exalts, when he mourns, when he slanders, most of us in favour of it - he understood it! - that we are irrelevant, that we have not read the two codes, that we have no idea what they include, and also that we do not know what they are proposing, I will tell him that there is no greater insult and condemnation to a colleague of the Greek Parliament to address him as ignoring what the draft law contains. That's the first. Secondly, what would Mr Loverdus want, Mr President, to applaud him as a habemus papam? Mr President, if he were here, I would say this to him: if he wants to talk about dialogue, because we are all lawyers, I will tell him now that he hears from his office that legal science is based on a position, which is the basis, the core, the support of legal thought. It is a phrase by Aristotle, which says "always grey may have it anyway". In other words, there is a second version on all matters, perhaps third. That is why, in legal science, dialogue is the abstraction, beauty, it is its core. Of those who are different in harmony. They should prove this here and his party and the New Democracy, who choose with incredible hypocrisy and opportunism what they want to say, as the Minister pointed out, now, at the moment that we are talking about in the channels and allow journalists, with whom they speak, to say that rape has been a flood and that the penalty for life imprisonment is being abolished by the Criminal Code. Such disgrace, such a shame, Mr President! I close, telling him that in the difficult years that were Minister, in 2010-2014, we knew what it meant to be comitology, memoirs, etc. The big problem that emerged in those years was what democracy is and how it is won. Today, entering a memorial era, the political question, the legal, what is our responsibility, which is emerging and the sovereign is: What is justice, particularly criminal justice, and how it is granted. If Mr Loverdos and his party and the New Democracy think that they cannot have a place in the Greek Parliament for such serious, scientific, legal dialogue, I am very sorry and we are all returning to all the defiance and insulting phrases he has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Lappa. Before we move on, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and two teachers attendants from the 4th Daphne Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and two teachers attendants from the 2nd Halandri Municipal School. The House welcomes them. We continue with the rapporteur of SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Paradigopoulos. I would like to inform you that Mr Tsirkas will then speak. During the speech of the first two rapporteurs, speakers are registered. After the end of the speech of the second rapporteur, the list will be closed. Mr. Paradisepoulou, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask you for your tolerance, as far as the issue of time is concerned, because the subject has a great deal of scope. Ladies and gentlemen, having returned to the parliamentary and judiciary culture after the first two positions and having listened, with the respect that belongs to the President of Parliament, we can move on to this issue. It is also customary, of course, for procedural questions to be discussed first and then for the debate on substantive questions. But let me propose a small introduction concerning the importance of today's legislation. I would like to remind you that at the moment we are doing a historic job in voting for a new Criminal Code. From the Greek Revolution of 1821 to the present day, we have only four Criminal Codes that applied. The first was the Reminder of Criminals in 1824. The second was the bavarian inspiration of criminal law in 1835. The Criminal Code still in force today, which was voted after a long time of work and was implemented since the beginning of 1951. Today will only be fourth in modern Greek history Criminal Code, which will be discussed. By staying in this introductory part, too, I would like to say that criminal matter, of course, in the context of modern law, has a distinct position as a whole. In ancient times, in history, it was also a uterus of law in the past. Indicating, then, criminal law goes beyond history and reaching the territories of social anthropology and prehistoric history. I have the impression that Orestia best describes the transition from revenge to law, having historically captured a founding moment for the law in our country. With this, right now, we're dealing with it. However, the reasons for the importance of the Criminal Code in the matter being discussed today are not only historical to you, but they are also essential to democracy and political order, because the Criminal Code concerns the exercise of criminal power, namely national sovereignty. Without the possibility of law enforcement, a state is a non-state. That is why, because it is precisely the state we are talking about, ours, it is democratic, we are dealing with an issue which is of paramount importance. Turning back to the procedural issues which have been raised, I would like to say that today I understand that two perceptions are conflicting. One is consensual that he wishes - and in practice confirms this desire - to proceed with the process of legislating in a way which is consensual, in view of the importance of the matter. And another is conflicting, which even though theoretically or platonicly theorizes consensus, actually here has an unconscious attitude. First of all, I must say that, of course, from the position of my colleague Mr Syntagakis and then we have returned to parliamentary culture, but even though it is a procedural issue - I would like to say how much I do not understand the abstention attitude before critical legislation. I very much regret, although this is not the subject of today's debate and procedure, how problematic it is that the legal order should be tolerated, and even the abstention class should be tolerated, even during the debate on issues covered by Article 86 of the Constitution, which creates a quasi-judicial function, where veto is not allowed. So in the face of us the need to make a statement on the relevant issues, first we were faced with a question raised by the Opposition. Is it right now just before the expected elections to discuss such a serious piece of legislation? I need to remind you of some things here. First of all, voting with an article of the Criminal Code as a whole, as it is currently going to happen, has no features of acceleration or hurry. A criminal code, first of all, is a piece of legislation which is passed in accordance with the procedure of the codes. Therefore, the time devoted to the debate can only be the one who is now devoted. We are not talking, in fact, about the whole. It is one day in the committees and one in the House. So no time is sacrificed for the necessary debate on the Criminal Code. But that's not all. Because of its importance, the Criminal Code is a piece of legislation in which a long-term processing process has been carried out. That's the way it's always been. It was heard during the committee that the Code of Conduct currently in force and implemented from 1-1-1951 began to be reconstructed and revised since 1911. Legislative work lasted for forty years. And the legal work of this draft Criminal Code, which is now being introduced, has been long. We have completed a decade and, as is well known to many, there have been changes in the Presidency in the respective committees, and we have gradually reached the formulation of the plan which is being discussed today. These committees were involved, scientists who ministered to criminal law and criminal law. So we have to do with a project that has heavy scientific characteristics. I mean the draft which is being discussed today and which is a product of this committee of legislation, whose members are also before us today. I wanted to say that the committees which have worked for ten years have worked harmoniously, worked organicly and in collaboration. Of course, there have been variations, but in the variations that each committee has had, which she has dealt with, and despite any reconstructing it, she has not put the previous plan on the shelf in order to start from the outset. They all worked gradually, "pressing" on the scientific work that had been ahead of us and promoting, as far as possible, the work of obtaining a Criminal Code, which will be operational. I dealt with the question 'because in 2015, for example, we had a rotation of the committees', and I tried to explain that this was not due to any substantial objections to the content of the project which was then in 2015, but only to an issue that was partly legal and partly procedural, that it was then considered very useful to the lawyers as a whole, judges and lawyers, to keep the numbering of the articles of the existing legislation today, the Criminal Code, and also to observe the titles with their terminology, where no change was necessary, in order to make use of the the thesaurus of jurisprudence and theory, i.e. considerations built on the old regulation, on the code that is currently in force and whoever is the architect of Nikolaos Horaphas. However, it was only a technical reason for the change and, otherwise, not only were the members of the new committee supported in the previous but also organically, with Professor Kastanidou-Symonidou as a member and with the invitation of the Professor, Ms.Jantakis, cooperated precisely with members of the previous committee, so that this organic continuity would exist. Of course, I heard the point raised by Mr Contonis that this committee had long delivered its work and could not then have been further worked out. I do not agree at all, Mr Contony. First of all, I believe that de lege ferenda or de constitutie ferenda, if you would like, that there should be no legislative work, no opinions or expressions of opinion and, indeed, specific laws in Parliament, with the need to endorse the opinion of a committee of experts and accepting it as a whole or rejecting it, raises a question of democracy, which we could perhaps consider in the future. However, the interpretation of this future, in any case, of a discussion and decision, was that the committees which they took over knew that there was also a consultation procedure before such an important legislation. There is no one among them - and I hope that is before us - who would claim the lack of dialogue in the face of the text, which they have tried and delivered to us. It was therefore absolutely natural and given the work of the Legislative Committee to end only after the dialogue has been exhausted. What does it mean by the fact that the legislation, which we are voting on, is a work of the Legislative Committee? It means he has the final word. In other words, he listens to the dialogue, he also talks with the Minister, who is in a constitution that serves popular sovereignty, an expressor of democracy, listens to the Members of Parliament, listens to the Members and eventually gives a text which will reach its final shape, perhaps with some legal details, in today's debate. So I want to say that we are dealing with a project which I have already heard yesterday as the fruit of SYRIZA's political positions. However, this work cannot be loaded into a particular party. The nature of the draft of the Criminal Code currently being discussed is defined by the rule of law, by security needs and by constitutional procedures, which aim to complete the legislation and not by any political feasibility. I would like to mention at the moment, at least in good time, and to thank the members of the legislators for their work. Maybe it's too time-consuming in view of the time I have to mention one - one of the names. However, their contribution to the formulation of this code was indeed valuable. In the committees that were altered, Professors Androulakis, Mylonopoulos, the amnesty John Mandrauloudakis, who was replaced by Ms. Symonidou-Castanidou. In the processing committees, which also operated under the cover of the legislators and in cooperation with the Ministry for the Charter of Dialogue, the Vice-President of the Board also chaired Mr. Vassilis Markos and, in the latter phase, finally chaired the work, the director and President of the Union of Criminals Mr. Christoforos Argyropoulos. We therefore have a scientific work that we must respect. I have consumed a lot of time with the procedurals. However, I have to say, in substance, that I had not realised before I came here how far it has not been understood, in particular, that what we are voting on is a piece of legislation which is voted on as a whole, that is, we are voting for a new shellfish bearing, a new backbone. The fact that we are voting for a new skeleton on the same general principles, but perhaps with different specific principles, does not mean that there can be no reform in the future as an article. They're probably going to happen. We are not voting for a Constitution, so that what is voted today is inconsistent then. What is characteristic, however, is that it is currently a new system capable of hosting the whole of criminal law in a different way. Do not mention the principles of criminal law. These are all known. Criminal law, which is reproduced in the current draft Criminal Code, always serves the principle of legitimacy, respect for dignity, the principle of guilt, the democratic principle which also communicates and mutually influences with the regulations of criminal law, the principle of equality, the social state and eternity. Composition here: I raised from yesterday the question that we should not use the term 'godly' for a provision which, for the most basic knowledge of the philosophy of law and the history of law, does not have any relevant content in the sense of leniency. And because the change is just legal, I'm glad to hear from the Minister that he can welcome it. The notion of grace is known to us from the aristotle era. It means that law can be adapted, taken into account the specificities of the specific cases and due diligence constitutes a form of administration, a form of justice rather than a circumvention of the law. These are provisions which do not lead to justice. The court has given a penalty in these cases, on the basis of proportionality and the principles of justice, and this regulation allows us to deviate with various beneficial regulations for the sake of the dismantling of crime in general. In other words, these arrangements propose a circumvention of justice for the sake of a feasibility, perhaps, but different. That is why, so far, our legislation in the case of criminal drugs legislation is not talking about leniency measures, it is about favourable measures, and this terminology must be maintained today. In any case, let us show that in Greece we know specifically the Greek language, the Greek history and the Greek philosophy. Turning to the text to say that the new code, of course, has been adapted to progress, namely the conquests concerning the social area, but in particular the rule of law and engineering - so as to say it - security. It does not cease to seek the balance between security and the rule of law, i.e. respect for the rights of the citizen who faces criminal investigation. Indeed, in Article 13 of the Criminal Code, we find in the definitions that the notion of the person concerned is not only about the family, as we know it, but also about the family, as its concept of institutions has now widened. However, I would like to say what is the main point of change, which has already been pointed out. The main point is that, to date, we have had a problem with penalties, which relate to both major penalties and light and very small ones. What was that? Firstly, with regard to serious penalties, our problem was that we had very high penalties and a highly flexible and flexible system of redundancies. This system had to be balanced so that we could have a criminal system that matched the international community and provide confidence, security and rights to Greek citizens. What's the balance? A slightly lower penalty on several occasions and a fixed system of redundancies now. What does it mean to be slightly lower? It means that the cases where life expectancy is predicted - some countries have abolished life, we maintain them - so that we do not get to the phenomenon that our country is the only one that has 10% of prisoners in isovitas and that we are therefore permanently criticised for our judicial and criminal culture. So the number of isobes is reduced, but they are kept for serious crimes. It falls sharply, but not far from the maximum limit of temporary imprisonment from twenty to fifteen years. Moreover, in the field of imprisonment and offences, that is to say, penalties relating to middle-class criminals, we have considerable changes, since we now have three main sentences: imprisonment which, from three years to three years later, will be estimated, the provision of social work and the financial penalty, and the abolition of the establishment of the financial buy-out of the prison is abolished, with a payment of money. Since the state had decided that it should impose a prison sentence, it is right that this should be observed. The alternative to be the socially beneficial work which still cannot put the citizens in an unequal position among themselves, and not to have this damage that the system entailed with conversion and which again gave our country a special position here. It was not a regulation that could be tolerated, accepted by other European regulations. Of course, I will be vindicating the work of the Legislative Committee, which is huge. All four hundred fifty articles of the Criminal Code, in one by one, were paid to vote here in one single provision. We are forced to wrongfully do the work, but I would remind you that, in future, this criminal law will be tested in the future. I would also like to say that I understand the importance of rape, and I hope that the debate that is taking place here will lead to a position which expresses all needs and security and the rule of law. I also think it is very good that the Minister said yesterday that he accepted the legislative proposal that the article on torture should be moved from the position in which it is in the plan, that is to say, between crimes relating to the service of crimes involving civilisation and last betrayal. That's what I'm gonna finish. I mean the following. Criminals disagree whether torture affects human dignity or something, whether dignity is legitimate or not. Let me say that we can give theoretical and technocratic significance to these disagreements and try to see the essence. And the essence is what? The point is that a man who is tortured ceases to be able to have a self-determined view, opinion and will. I imagine most of you have read Pericles Coroves' "Human Guards", where he best describes how the man who is tortured by a spot and then feels not to exist because of the unbearable pain. The man who cannot identify himself cannot, unfortunately, be, although he does not want to be, a cell of democracy, because democracy requires a vote and the vote presupposes self-determination. So torturing the wrongs of democracy suffers. And it affects the roots of our Constitution, because it affects not only democracy, but also the rule of law, because the rule of law also requires the individual responsibility of people, it requires guilt of people. And guilt, too, presupposes self-determination, your ability to choose the first, the alpha or the beta behavior, which abolishes the unbearable pain. This act, this crime that offends the plight of the people and both the rule of law and democracy, we cannot put it between the crimes about the service and not put it in its own place, which is crimes against the people. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u45	We, too, thank the MP of the 1st Thessaloniki, Mr. Nicos Paradropoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the 9th Chalkida Municipal School "Yiannis SKARIMPAS". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The floor has been raised by Vassilios Tsirkas, similarly rapporteur from SYRIZA, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the new codes after many years of work by the Special Preparatory Committees, which involved important and prominent representatives of the legal schools of the country, representatives of judicial associations and representatives of the national legal associations. We are here, in an open parliament, where they are met - as the Minister for Justice and the President of the Parliament said earlier - all constitutional, legal and political requirements, and in this context the government has the obligation and the right to bring for a vote ready and mature bills, let alone the new Criminal Codes, which, in my opinion, constitute a historic step, a small or larger - I do not know - a success of this parliamentary majority, the government, which is moving on to this historic and important step. It is true that in recent years, needs have been created to enrich the ways of investigation, the movement and completion of the criminal procedure in due time, the decongestion of the courts, while at the same time guaranteeing fundamental freedoms and rights. Criminal justice is changing, modernising. However, the same values and principles remain at its core, and these codes and how they were drawn up. Of course, we also have the new Criminal Code. Just two words from me. The previous rapporteur, Mr Paraparapopoulos, said so. The purpose of the new Criminal Code was to rationalise and modernise the system of criminal sanctions, to "renovate" - within introductory terms the word - provisions of the special party, which, over time, have lost their importance and their regulatory scope. Crimes committed on the Internet, cross-border organised crime, newly emerging forms of crimes of asymmetric violence imposed these legislative changes and we are here today, after seventy years, bringing these changes to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, with the aim of improving the criminal system, which, after many and fragmentary arrangements in the previous decades, had significantly lost its cohesion. This intervention is an attempt to modernise and criminalise, criminal justice and the system of penalties in accordance with European standards, which will make a decisive contribution to speeding up the administration of justice, with beneficial consequences for social and economic life, but also to improving living conditions in prisons. The Legislative Committee has worked out and submitted a fully renewed and harmonised draft Code of Criminal Procedure with modern legal requirements. It has emerged from the correlation and exploitation of all previous encoding efforts and all the scientific positions of the past twenty years and, on the one hand, from a scientific development of European developments and positions in the field of law. Considered and exploited proposals and positions from the draft Code of Criminal Procedure 1995 under the chairmanship of the late Professor Manoledakis, much of the proposals and positions from the draft Code of Criminal Procedure 2014 under the chairmanship of Mr Margaritis and, of course, positions from the intermediate committees chaired by the late prosecutor Crustallakis. As a result of all this, it was an attempt to hide the unifying power of the commonly accepted fair and similar arrangements, but also the common conviction of the need to promote new institutions to overcome the timeless strife of the criminal procedural reality. Perhaps - we have this confidence - as the beginning of the creation of a new picture of the criminal system, will strengthen the institutional dimension of the actors in the trial, strengthen their rights, ensure a more rapid trial of cases and ultimately strengthen the confidence of the citizens, the societies and the system of awarding criminal justice. Certainly, reference points to all this scientific and legislative mobility in the area of criminal trial and rights are both the sought acceleration, as I said earlier, of criminal justice, but also the strengthening and broadening of the rights of the parties, particularly the defendant, and the effectiveness of the state mechanism in the field of organised crime. The central arrangements in Article 1 for criminal jurisdiction and Article 2 for the exceptions, where this procedure has been imposed, shall be maintained as it reflects the jurisprudence of the courts and the obligation to comply with the country's international obligations. The rules laid down in Articles 3 to 13 have been reformed in order to make it more fully available to the courts, such as in the case of Article 12, which refers to the compulsory representation of the Advocate at the meetings of the criminal courts, and more precisely to the current legislative situation. Articles 14 to 26 redefined the institutions which entrust the impartiality of judicial persons, i.e. institutions of exclusion, exclusion and abstention of judicial persons and individual amendments reflect the requirement of impartiality of the judicial bodies. In relation to the institution of the exemption, it was decided not to promote the indicative listing of grounds for suspected discrimination. It was considered that these reasons - and I think this is right - have been sufficiently developed in case-law, as well as in theory and in a way that provides the safety of their proper application. The procedure provided for in Articles 16 to 22 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for the exception shall, on the one hand, ensure that the grounds of exclusion can be unfettered and, on the other hand, that they can be examined and judged unresolved. More specific amendments have been made, such as the last subparagraph of Article 23(4), which provided for the disciplinary review of the judicial officer who pleads unjustly abstention, a provision which is abolished as it conflicts with the need to consolidate the institution of abstention that operates and fears. As in the first part, as in the second part of the draft law on the Code of Criminal Procedure, the arrangements made in this respect in relation to criminal prosecution are not radically removed from the rules currently in force. On the basis of the idea that the overall form and evolution of both the preliminary examination and the preliminary investigation - the main interrogation - are interlinked with the procedure model chosen, the members of the committee were taken into account and comparative reports on these proclamation models in the European area. The general provisions on criminal prosecution include, on the one hand, a redrafting of specific regulations promoting and encrypting the minimum legal guarantees of the prosecution procedure and the independence of the prosecutors in its exercise, and, on the other, the incorporation of specific provisions for special prosecutors. Following the conclusion of the consultation on the project, and the completion of the preparation of a number of proposals, which have been sent to the Legislative Committee by scientific judiciary associations and bodies, it shall be explicitly reflected in Articles 34 and 36 all of the proposals sent to the committees concerning the Special Prosecutors of Economic Crime and Corruption and the obligation to comply with the principle of proportionality when taking procedural measures allowing access to any information or element which is useful for carrying out their work. Subsequently, with regard to the abstention of the criminal prosecution in terms of offences, it was added for the purpose of strengthening the rights of the suspect, but also for the purpose of ensuring the effectiveness of the institution itself explicitly in the arrangement that the prosecutor is asking the person to whom the act is attributed to appear before him or by an attorney, since the performance with an attorney promotes an understanding of the conditions of application of the institution and can guarantee the choice of the solution most relevant to the party concerned. Article 59 is recast, which regulates the question of postponement of criminal prosecution by the prosecutor's act to specific crimes. The fifth chapter deals in particular with the submission, management of inclination and the procedural potential of the defendant. In particular, with regard to the right of appeal of the defendant, the draft law re-establishes earlier rules which provided for the opening of a time-limit for bringing an action for service of the Advocate-General's relevant order, since only in this way can the rejection of the order be ensured more fully and the exercise of the rights of the defendant in a fair trial be safeguarded. In the Sixth and Seventh Chapter, the relevant provisions on permission to prosecute and the case remained unchanged. In addition, no serious interpretative or other discrepancies have been observed on their long journey. A significant change in the representation of civil action in the third part of the draft, where there is a differentiated legal framework for the critical material, is that the concept and position of the politically indicted party in the criminal proceedings is redefined and considered most appropriate by the committee to adopt a model of civil action to determine the title of those which are actively legalised by the traditional urban criterion, in order to maintain the legal acquired, but disconnects the civil action from the need to introduce the civil claim to the criminal court. They said earlier on, and the Minister himself, that after the public consultation most of the proposals - comments sent to the Legislative Committee have been accepted and incorporated into the draft we are debating today. I will say some of them: Due to the provision of the plan of the Criminal Code for the execution of the custodial sentence of more than three years, the competence of the one-sided court has been redefined to further include those who are threatened with imprisonment for up to three years with a penalty of money or a public job or a combination of the above. With regard to the principle of moral proof, there is a provision of an obligation for judges to always explain in detail what means and what considerations they have put together their judicial judgment. The right to be informed of the suspect, who is to a very limited extent aware of the criminal provisions of which he is being investigated, and the issues on which he provides explanations, shall be strengthened. There are three important forecasts for the criminal negotiation where specific crimes of increased moral and moral decency are forbidden to be subjected to the institution of criminal negotiation. The Advocate General shall be given the opportunity to consider a case inappropriate to negotiate invoking circumstances of service and the individuality of the defendant. The Advocate General is also allowed to call before him for a hearing and for the sake of his participation in the proceedings, but also for the sake of a more complete picture of the appropriateness of the negotiation. The application of the criminal order has been institutionally strengthened with two additional provisions. The better criminal treatment of those who accept the criminal order by imposing either a penalty payment reduced by at least 2/3 in relation to the penalty provided for in the law, or a prison sentence of up to three months under conditions of suspension, and the provision of a procedure for the award of the complaints and for the overthrowing of this judgment of the criminal order, leaves the initial period of 10 days as inflexible and pressing, and the case is discussed in the joint procedure following the previous summoning of the defendant. They are used in several provisions in relation to subpoenaing or updating modern media and technical capabilities, which is very important. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that the draft as a whole for the Code of Criminal Procedure can enable the citizen and the judge to choose between traditional and more modern models of justice, without any discount on the fundamental rights of the first and the judicial role of the second. The presumption of innocence, the right of silence, the protection of human value, the protection and satisfaction of the victim coexist in harmony with the prompt administration of justice, the exceptional procedures and other modern institutions of restitutional justice. It's a piece of legislation, which is systemic and structured in the principles of fair trial. Some provisions have remained unchanged, some have been strengthened, such as the provisions relating to the role of the prosecutor in the criminal proceedings and preliminary examination, the extension of the scope of the most recent provisions, such as the abstention of prosecution and the negotiation of criminal proceedings, but also the adoption of new mechanisms, such as the criminal compromise, with the expectation that another concept of criminal justice will be developed in the long term. Surely our legal culture and criminal justice were based on democratic values and principles, but the essential element for the proper functioning of our criminal system and the criminal procedure is that these principles and values should be quoted in a legislature that is systemic, where the conceptual ambiguities of the past will be clarified, the basic principles of fair trial will become clear and clear, or yet seen as a complex legal procedure, while introducing new mechanisms for more rapid and fairer for all the administration of justice. I think that all this is achieved by the draft Code of Criminal Procedure that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Circa. We are telling you here that the list of speakers has been closed. Mr. Mavrotas from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the new Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure in Parliament, but unfortunately not as it would be worth the seriousness of these texts, both with responsibility and with the government and with counter-population. The four of the six most parliamentary parties have left the process, considering the House as delegated because the elections will be called on Monday, according to the Prime Minister. The question may also be to us because this bill did not come sooner and come last week, but this will not prevent us from seeing things clearly, in view of the wider and not the party interest. In Potami we consider our institutional role to be a very serious matter, and we will not be demarcated by what others are doing, the largest and of course the politically more experienced. Potami could also take his tail out and let the government vote for the codes by herself, avoiding maliciousness, because the new codes also have points that concern them, such as everything that changes. But with the Potami we did not enter the House to miss the criticals, as it might have been convenient to think only of political costs. We have gone in order to boldly and consistently support our position, without either deteriating or licking or pretending, as some might want. Because we have the privilege of having in our ranks and consulting people, who know very well, such as this, we have absolute confidence in their opinion. So to make it clear that the codes we are voting on today are not the codes of SYRIZA, as some people want to go through for their own reasons. It is a result of a decade's work of a scientific advisory committee, made up of distinguished teachers, fighters, judges, prosecutors, who are currently honoring us with their presence. The applicable codes are children of the '50s, almost seventy years back. And people should have retired. So they were outdated. They needed rationalisation and modernisation, adaptation to modern conditions and to international and European contexts. I have heard many here but also outside saying 'Let us not vote for the codes now, let the new government do it'. In that sense, by kicking the can, we have now come to the point that we have passed numerous legislative committees and that the codes have not been passed. Continuous hunting of ideal conditions eventually leads to immorality and conditions are now mature. In a country where the postponement of decision-making and the launch of the necessary reforms is perhaps the most important obstacle to progress, we believe that we should resist the sirens of populism and take the step towards modernising the particular basic justice legislation. All the proposed changes to the new Criminal Code have been accepted by the legal and judicial world with a positive sign, as has the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which in a number of provisions are introduced, institutions that have been successful for years and in other European countries, such as the institution of the criminal negotiation, the criminal conciliation, the abstention of criminal prosecution and others, aimed at avoiding endless and endless criminal cases, but also at restoring damage and restoring any damage caused to the patient. So, with this modernization, we achieve a more rapid yield of justice, the disarmament of courts and prisons. A positive step is also that many comments and improvements proposed by the bodies in the public consultation have been adopted. These can be summarised as follows: A special provision for the strict punishment of racist crime has been adopted by public consultation. Legislatively improved and coordinated the provisions on suspension of sentences, the home-to-house realisation of sentences and the provision of socially beneficial labour, the conditional dismissal and treatment of minors. The sentence of imprisonment for the bribery of political persons has been laid down and the provisions of international conventions binding on the country have been harmonized. A stricter penalty framework has been established for the running criminal organisations by imprisonment up to 15 years and the relevant provisions have been legally improved, which is also timely. We have explicitly included in Article 336 what we have heard about rape, and other forms of rape, other than forced violence or a threat to life or physical integrity. It's things I'll say next. The provisions to strengthen the protection of minors against sexual exploitation have been supplemented and we have adapted to Greece's international obligations. Crimes such as theft and damage have been predicted to be persecuted in principle in order to serve practical needs, such as arrest on the ground, but with the possibility of retrospective abolition of the criminal prosecution if it submits a statement thereon. I would remind you that the original arrangement provided only for indictment and had received many negative comments. The prosecuting of malicious infidelity and the private sector were envisaged in order to avoid abuses, in particular, by the organs of the administration of large companies and organizations. And this, in response to a strong reaction from the prosecutors, who argued that imprisonment and not the self-determination will also undermine the powers of independent authorities, such as the principle of laundering, which is evidenced by many cases of money laundering, initially invoking infidelity. Care has also been taken to ensure that the civil requirements of the person suffering are not affected in the event of the termination of the offence as a result of a felony conversion into a wound. The criminal offence is widened to include insulting goods of modern economic life, such as credit cards and travel checks, while crimes against transport and telecommunications and other public utilities are being standardised. It has been redefined - and we have heard this before - that the competence of the one-sided court of law has been redefined so that it can now include those who have been injured by imprisonment for up to three years. The defects will now be divided into light and heavy, the first to be tried exclusively by the one-sided court, while the serious misdemeanours have so far been to the overwhelming majority of the felonies. At the same time, more powers will have the one-sided appeal and other important ones, which I do not have the time to develop now. But let's go a little more specifically to see the new Criminal Code. It is very good that the new Criminal Code explicitly recognises in its explanatory statement as its basic principle, the principle of personal autonomy and the principle of subsidiarity of criminal law as a measure of citizens' freedom. This is a firm liberal commitment to the new Criminal Code. According to the explanatory statement, its purpose is, among other things, rationalisation and modernisation, as we have said, of the system of penalties, addressing modern issues - for example crimes on the Internet, cross-border organised crime, unprecedented forms of asymmetric violence - the abolition of outdated or unnecessarily criminal provisions, the adaptation to the international environment and the improvement of the living conditions of detainees. In general, we can say that the new Criminal Code is more persuasive than at the outset, since smaller penalties are provided for in a series of crimes, and many offences are turned into delinquents, but it is still difficult to get suspended. In other words, we may have smaller sentences, but they should actually be served in prison. Some specific issues now. One key positive point in the new Criminal Code is that the perpetrators from eighteen to twenty-five years will be treated under a special regime, escalating the transition from the juvenile regime to the adult, which is also socially acceptable. Co-working. The new Criminal Code provides for law enforcement by the courts as the main penalty, socially beneficial work for a series of offences. That is a good measure, but we should be concerned about its implementation. The necessary infrastructure is needed to be able to take flesh and bone. The imposition of social benefits as a penalty with an obvious objective, and the perpetrator being punished and the social group benefiting from the provision of work, is a very good prediction, but he wants a job to be implemented in practice. Knowledge of things about criminal repression, note that there are no infrastructures in municipalities and state institutions, such as the similar culture and culture for the absorption of hundreds of convicts in public works, issues that need to be addressed so that the relevant positive, positive provisions are not left without content. Another provision which concerns and has been debated, has almost prevailed in the public debate - and let me say that together it has been very misinformation - it has to do with the issue of rape, as provided for in Article 336 of the Criminal Code. In accordance with the applicable code, whoever through physical violence or a threat of significant and immediate danger is compelled to another in intercourse or to another leniency or tolerance, is punished by imprisonment, while if the act was carried out by two or more perpetrators who acted jointly, there is at least 10 years of imprisonment. These are in the applicable code. In accordance with the provisions currently in force, rape is therefore part of the felony in all its forms. With the proposed changes, the main penalties remain the same, but the case is enriched and paragraph 5 is introduced which expressly mentions psychological violence, namely rape achieved not by physical, but by a threat of an illegal act. Although it was to date treated as a felony, if it could be proved, it is thus demolished into a crime, which is punished by imprisonment of at least three to five years, but a real punishment. This also raises concerns, as rape victim undergoes the same physical consequence, whether rape is caused by a threat of violence or psychological threat, and this provision has also created a wave of fast news, that rape has been committed by a felony, in other words in the form of a symbolism. I imagine that the authors of the code, having a rich experience of cases, have tried to balance out psychological violence on the one hand - which has so far been indirectly and clearly defined - and, on the other hand, to be able to implement the penalty in practice, given the difficulty of proving, that is to say to give more degrees of freedom to judges who judge such cases. It can be seen in all of us, or at least in most, that rape is defined more than the absence of consensus and not by the use of force, but in the criminal place the issue is what can be proved, so that we do not end up in excess. In any case, however, symbolism must be for zero tolerance against rape. And if something changes to Rule 336 and especially paragraph 5, as the Minister said, we are very pleased, because we will have contributed with our presence in the House to making this change and not with our absence. As regards the Code of Civil Procedure, the provisions of the new Code enhance the role of prosecutors and effectively make prosecutors protagonists in the criminal proceedings. In particular, they change almost everything in criminal investigations. The D.A.'s gonna have all the responsibilities of the interrogator except for the custody. It will, in other words, investigate everything and make every action. He will also be the protagonist in a number of new institutions aimed at restoring damage to financial crimes and compromise before the courts in order to speed up the administration of justice, which I think we all agree we need. Also, the new Code of Criminal Procedure brings radical changes in the investigation and trial of all criminal cases. Institutions such as criminal conciliation, criminal negotiation or abstention from criminal prosecution are introduced in accordance with the proposed regulations, which tend to restore damage to economic and property crimes and to find a compromise in order to avoid long-term judicial uncertainties. To conclude, therefore, the new Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure are finally being completed after decades of experience. This modernisation should aim at preventing and reducing crime, while at the same time speeding up justice procedures and decongested prisons, but without giving a picture of the impunity of criminals. Both proposed draft laws, which reform the two Codes of Criminal Law, appear to be largely fulfilled. This gigantic effort of at least the last decade should not be sacrificed to the altar of political purposes and a barren election campaign. Of course, even the best legislation, as life has shown us, is judged in practice. Of course, there will inevitably be a transitional period until the system balances again. We will be waiting to hear, Minister, and what has been said previously about the start of July 1st, the pros and the against what Mr Kontonis has said, or other proposals that may be heard today in the Chamber. If, however, we are afraid of the transition period and do not make changes, we are doomed to plant, not only in legal codes, but everywhere. In spite of all the concerns that have been voiced, either in substance or in the process, the balance for us in Potami is good. And that is why we will be voting in favour of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. George Mavrotas, special speaker from the river. We're entering the list of speakers. The first speaker is SYRIZA MEP Mr. Kontonis. Mr. Contonis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is unsatisfactory, I would say, but also extremely problematic, the attitude of the opposition parties, which have chosen in two crucial and basic instruments, such as the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code, not to participate in this debate in this House. They are also unfair to the debate, but they are unfair to their own situation. I have noted from yesterday on television that there is an extensive debate among the current absentees not on the procedure, that is to say, for the reason that they have told us that they are leaving Parliament, but on the individual articles of the legislation. In other words, the debate that had to be held here and the dialogue had to be enriched, even the controversy, in view of the parties who left, did not do so in the Chamber of Parliament, but in the channels and in television broadcasts with flares and crowns. It is something that favours democratic dialogue, that is something that gives rise to parliamentarianism, and I wonder what those wise heads that make such decisions are. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be interesting to look a little back in the past and to remember that in this Chamber those who are blaming the government today had changed the provision of the Penal Code - if I remember correctly, Minister, the provision of infidelity - for 15 days and reintroduced the previous one, since of course the most prosperous criminal law, the more prosperous criminal provision in favour of those accused. And they come today and make this guy the critic? Of course, anyone would like this debate to be extensive in time, and so on, but in no case is this attitude justified by the specific political forces, which I told you at what point they had reached the end of the life of the Samara government. Ladies and gentlemen, the effort to have these legislation, these plans, in front of us for which a large number of different scientists, professors, judges and lawyers have worked. Over ten years the scientific community and advisory committees have been involved, and I would like to say that the plans we have before us are comprehensive and absolutely positive. I shall mention two points. First of all, there is a rationalization of penalties in the Criminal Code. It is unacceptable that was the case - Mr Paradoxopoulos mentioned it, but I would like to stress it - that there should be a life sentence for abusers and life imprisonment for homicide as well. In other words, we are giving the impression that we do not have an evaluative system, but we do all put it in the same bag, in order to possibly satisfy instantaneous public opinion. It is no exaggeration to say that for these penalties our country had received remarks on several occasions from international organisations and it was at last necessary to proceed with this system of restructuring of penalties. The second thing I would like to say is that the process of judiciary is speeding up and it is very good that public prosecutors are finally being given the opportunity not only to file cases when they are manifestly unfounded, but to enter a criminal dispute with the defendant so that it is possible for a criminal offence to be committed by that citizen, who is being prosecuted at the expense of him, to terminate at first instance and not to have the case brought to a standstill. Ladies and gentlemen, I raised two issues at the beginning of the debate and said that the first, the first, the procedural, that is to say the question of the setting-up of the legislative committees is an issue which concerns me in its legal dimension, but I do not think it to be as serious as the second one I mentioned and I would like to clarify it. There is the view, expressed by the Minister - and it has a serious legal basis - that the bills were further processed under Law No 4139/2013 - if I remember correctly - and under the authorised regulation it contains. It is clear from what I have heard from both the Minister and Mr Paradoxopoulos that we have an application of the law here, but in my opinion, when this extension of the legislative committee does not take place at the time of its operation, then there is one issue that needs to be clarified, and most importantly, since it has involved the delivery of the draft - and the one committee and the other - the establishment of a new legislative committee which has checked whether there are conflicting provisions between the two legislations. In my opinion, it would have to be further worked out by reconstituting the legislative committees by law. That's the objection I made. But, here too - and I know that, I have said that this remark - could be decided and it can be decided that this procedure belongs to Parliament's interna corporis, so it does not affect any further. This is something that can be said and based in all respects. But that, ladies and gentlemen, which I would say in a way - I strongly suggest, and I repeat, at the moment, concerns the time of validity of the legislation. I think it is wrong to give weapons to political opponents and political competitors of the government and SYRIZA to invent reasons and cover their own injustices. I believe that we have no reason, during the judicial term, to start the implementation of these two basic instruments. It should start, Minister, on 1 September, whenever we have the start of the judicial year or on 1 January. We have no objections to this soon, as from 1 September, which starts the judicial year. I believe that such a decision, on behalf of you and on behalf of the House, is curtailing all those arguments which have been raised in the last four days against the government. We all know that there is no shadow in this proposal for a law, but there are here claims that are abusive to the government and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, precisely to cover the injustices of the past. One of them has already been mentioned by the infidelity provision. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that today's sitting of this House is of historic importance and despite the objections that have been made about individual articles, which I imagine will be corrected by the process of law in the near future, it is something that must make us proud. I call on all of you to vote in favour of these two basic legislations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Contonis. Evangelos Venizelos, Member of KINAL and former Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting is the last of the Greek Parliament to which I belong, as it is certain that I will not be a Member of the Parliament of the next period. I therefore asked for the floor, although the parliamentary group I still belong to has already said that it is going away, because I think it is my duty to address this Chamber and this House to say a few words of good-bye. However, it is today that the House of Greeks is to discuss and vote on two fundamental legislation, draft laws on the Elimination of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. I therefore have an obligation not so much as a scientific body, as a teacher in constitutional law, and as a student in Ioannis Manoledakis, who has taught us with many others, and especially with Nikos Paradropoulos the importance of criminal liberalism, to put myself in the middle of these matters soon. There is no doubt that these 1950 instruments, which are symptomatic of another very important signature for me, that of the then Minister of Justice, Themistocles Tsatsos, have worked for decades as exemplary instruments, but in particular as regards the Criminal Code, the dogmatic coherence of the legislation has been broken, the phenomenon of inflation of the threatened and imposed sentences has emerged. For several reasons, from all the Bulgarians of all periods, legislative intervention has been carried out in relation to the creation of penalties and the conditional dismissal for practical reasons. And finally we arrived at a phenomenon which is extremely worrying and directly affecting the rule of law and the constitution of the country, we have come to the brutal attack on the principle of proportionality in the very assessment of protected legal goods. There are legal goods protected by very strict penalties, which are threatened, and these are minor in relation to other legal goods protected by different criminal treatment. This is the heart of the problem and it is inconceivable that it should be done in a modern rule of law. The modernisation of the codes is therefore absolutely necessary, because, if anything, there must be harmonisation with the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights and, of course, with the modern concepts of European legal culture. The principle of proportionality and the principle of leniency are pillars of this culture and I am truly proud, because in 2001 as the general rapporteur for the Review of the Constitution I proposed - and it was accepted - that the principle of proportionality should be explicitly introduced into Article 25(1) of the Constitution. Asked, "From the whole 2001 review, which was almost complete, if you had to keep a provision, what would you keep?", I said, "I would say that this provision is the provision of Article 25 of the Constitution". Furthermore, there is a sociology of law and a sociology of justice which tells us that the strictest judge ultimately has nothing to fear, even when it is disproportionate and unnecessarily unnecessarily, while the diligent judge is under the brick of internal control, which is the most extreme form of insulting the so-called internal independence of justice. I agree with the conclusion that this is not a legislative initiative by SYRIZA. This is a delayed act which the government had to do, not only the present, but also the previous one, perhaps many previous ones. And I honor the present members of the prefecture committees, including colleagues and colleagues, who are selected therapists of justice, members of the academic community and my students, which makes me even more proud. In the face of Mr Christoforos Argyropoulos, who, in my opinion, is the incarnation of dignity and quality in the field of the fighting lawyer, but also of legal culture, I would like to welcome and honor all the members of the prefecture committees, in particular by mentioning the dear friend Vassili Marquise, with whom we are sympathetic on many issues. There are individual objections. There are problems. The case-law will work out the new provisions. The improvements will necessarily be made but - to God - without prejudice to the systematic and dogmatic coherence of the new codes. However, the overall step is both positive and necessary. I have followed what Mr Kontonis said and the debate on the difference between the start of the formal validity and the start of the actual validity of the law. In the field of criminal law, according to the concepts which have now been cultivated and prevailed, and to the perceptions of the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, which has accepted that Article 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights expressly guarantees the principle of retroactiveness of the most important criminal law, there can be no circumvention of this principle by means of an artificial distinction between publication and entry into force, that is to say, between the formal validity and effective force of the law. That's what's subject to case law. In the two most recent Strasbourg decisions, which I have been following because so far I am the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in the forty-seven Member States of the Council, and I regret that my departure from Parliament and me, as well as the country, from this capacity of the rapporteur and I hope my successor, will continue in the same line as the support of the secretariat officials - the Scotland v. Italy (no). 2) 2009 of the Grand Department and Ruban v. Ukraine 2016 of the Fifth Department, this principle is reflected. I therefore think that provision should be made, if anything, that the court cannot find itself embarrassed to see the law published, but that it does not actually apply. Because the principle of the economics of the proceedings will not allow it to adopt a decision which will be terminated after legal proceedings. Therefore, this should be explicitly foreseen. In other words, provision should be made for the immediate publication and validity of decisions to be taken only after 1 July to avoid such discrimination, which violates the security of law and of Article 7 of the Constitution and Article 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Besides, if trials are affected, which are probably affected, they will be affected both on 10 June and on 1 July and on 16 September. It's the same trials. This is not how criminal justice is going. Sadly, it is progressing dramatically slowly. So there is no substantial difference, that is, in this debate. But now I come to the next political part of my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the codes should have taken place much earlier, in politically unsuspecting time, under political consensual conditions. The government would then be convinced that it really respects criminal liberalism and the rule of law. Because you will allow me to say that my objections to whether they really respect these rules are too great. We have seen the presumption of innocence systematically violated in this Chamber in recent years by the Prime Minister himself. We have seen the secrecy of the criminal proceedings systematically violated by governmental circles, the independence of justice itself. And covering the positions of the President and the prosecutor of the Ice Bay has, in any case, injured justice, because the government's competence at time is brought about by the consolidation of the positions. Only preparatory actions can be done before, which remind me of the fact that they are provided for by a simple law which has been considered unconstitutional with a practice of the Administrative Plenary Assembly of the Council of State. So the competence of the Ministerial Council is born on 1 July. On 1 July, however, the House is dismantled, and therefore there is no legitimacy, that is to say, there is no link with the popular sovereignty that legalises the Council of Ministers to intervene in the structure of the independence of justice and the separation of powers. The shape is very simple. And I am sure that the President of the Republic has this in mind. I will not speak today in this farewell speech about what happened in the tragic construction of the 'NOVARTIS' case, but the reports by the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Arena, Mr. Ioannis Angelis, cannot be left unanswered. Penalties submitted by a protected witness against protected witnesses shall not be left unanswered. It is a pity that the new Criminal Code does not make Articles 134 and 239, which are crucial for the investigation of this practice more urgent. Ladies and gentlemen, I leave the Greek Parliament after more than six years of constant and uninterrupted service in these headquarters. I was elected MP of Thessaloniki, often first on a cross of preference, in 10 different elections. I served seventeen years the government and the government majority from various ministerial positions to the position of the Deputy Prime Minister and the government partner. I have been a party leader and a member of the opposition for nine years. And I want to thank the Hellenic Republic for honoring me with such high positions. I want to thank all Members of Parliament for all the parliamentary periods, and for this, regardless of party position, for cooperation and for the controversy, which is the essence of democracy. I consider the exercise of the function of the rapporteur-general of the revision from 1995 to 2001 to the top of the parliamentary term. And I am sorry that today's meeting happened to be a trick because of the departure of the Great Repression, but also of other parties. I would really like to address to all Members today, but first of all I should like to address the House. The walls of this Chamber have ears and memory. Parliamentary history is perhaps the most important part of the entire history of the nation, the two centuries of life of the new Greek state. In the parliamentary debates and in the Minutes of the Greek Parliament, anxiety, experience, achievements, defeats and victories of the nation are condensed. It is the corpus of the total acquis of the place. I now have the opportunity to address not only the Chamber but also my political opponents, the outgoing government majority on the basis of the SYRIZA. I hope, first of all, in the next House as opposition, that SYRIZA is fully aware of the importance of national unity, as it has been realizing, even with great delay, the importance of the struggle which has been taking place since 2010 to save the country. I hope she realizes the importance of the rights of the opposition to the functioning of the House and its committees, the importance and value of parliamentary control now that it does not have power, the need to protect and strengthen Parliament's prestige as a symbolic place of democracy. But, of course, this also applies to the party of Officerial Response that claims to understand the government and to the parties of the Hellenic Response claiming to play a role in the institutional structure of the country. These must be taught as much and they must prove that in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, the result of the European elections at a pan-European level was slightly better than expected, in relation to the rise in nationalism and the right-wing, and shows a strengthening of the Centre, especially the Liberals and the Greens. But, on the contrary, the crisis of European liberal democracy, the risk of its transformation into non-liberal, authoritarian democracy, has not been eliminated. This risk arises from the legalisation crisis and the crisis of representation of political and party systems. It always starts as a crisis of parliament and parliamentism. The deportation of the parliament and of the Member leads inevitably to the depreciation of democracy. Modern democracy is either representative or not. I hope and hope that the House next year will respond to the great institutional, national, social and political challenges that are evident: firstly, the Revision of the Constitution, which can serve as a crucial instrument, such as the way in which the President of the Republic is elected, by a simple majority. This has happened because of SYRIZA's unscrupulous arrogance, despite my warnings. The second major task of the next House is to restore the prestige of institutions, justice, independent authorities, public administration, the emergence of a state of functioning, intelligent and effective. However, the major issue is the adoption, with the widest possible political and social consensus, of a national reconstruction plan, of a new social and national contract with a society that perceives the need for reforms and does not deal with them fearably, but friendlyly, because they concern and support the weaker social strata. The country needs large systems that unfortunately do not really have one. I am referring to the banking, insurance and the tax system. This is the only point in discussing competitiveness, covering the investment gap, overcoming stagnation and anaemic growth, avoiding the budgetary gap and ensuring the financial area. This presupposes, above all, safeguarding social cohesion and reconstituting the middle class. I would like to thank all of you personally, the President of Parliament, the members of the Bureau, the staff of this House. I will not, as I said, be a member of the next House. But I am and will always be a fighter and an active citizen and I believe that this is the most important thing to do in a democratic city like ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Venizelo. I invite Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, an Independent MEP, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is it necessary to modernise the codes? Yeah. In time, did it have to happen during this period, twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five days before the elections? My view is that not. I'm starting to make my remarks. From the outset I declare that I am voting against the legislation as a whole. Rape, article 336 of the Criminal Code. A legal definition of rape that is unacceptable is adopted both in line with the country's formal commitments to human rights conventions and in line with the government's political obligations. In essence, the new definition of the draft Criminal Code makes access to justice more difficult for this serious crime, as Amnesty International points out. The main issue is the fact that rape is still defined on the basis of violence and not on the basis of the absence of consensus. In addition, an even more restrictive than the existing threat definition is adopted. From the threat of great and immediate danger, we only go through those cases involving a threat to life or physical integrity, so the threat is defined exclusively as physical and closes any margin of different interpretation. To put here a small parentheses about the bullying that children are suffering from on-line and off-line and the modern crime with the new mixture of culture in Greece. The lack of the term 'conspiracy' is also a equally vulnerable point in the Rape Ordinance. The lack of consensus is an element of the objective nature of the crime, the imprinting of which in the text of the law represents a long-standing demand from feminist organisations. This is where you ignore them. Rape is carried out not only by physical violence, a threat of serious or immediate danger to life or physical integrity, as repeated in both the old and the new provision of Article 336 of the Criminal Code, but in any case when the consent of the victim is missing. The legislator has a duty to review the needs of societies, to judge, in other words, forensically, on the basis of how crime works, as well as the constantly changing needs of society, and to note this. Society today is not the same as society as it was fifty or ten years ago and it will not be the Greek society ten years later and it is a golden opportunity to catch up with some provisions. It is well known that crime over time changes form and this requires the legislator to be vigilant and to legislate solely on the safety and protection of the supreme good. There is no need for legal knowledge or for membership of a nomadic committee - without any insult to your faces, it is true - to assimilate the following simple avenue of society: Penalty against insensitive crimes must be strict. Proposals on the explosives of molotov. In particular, in Article 272 of the Criminal Code on the occupation of molotov, this is being converted into a prison sentence of 3 to 5 years, while so far the possession and manufacture of explosives have been punished by imprisonment. In the old article, he said, first, that anyone who manufactures, supplies or possesses explosives or explosive bombs in order to use them to cause a common risk to foreign things or a danger to a person or to grant them to another by such use is punished by imprisonment. In the new article it states that, first, ‘any person who manufactures, supplys or possesses explosives or explosive bombs from which a risk to human being may be punished by imprisonment of at least 3 years’. It refers to the second paragraph of the new Article that ‘the perpetrator is not punished if, before being examined by the authorities, he willingly handed over to those materials or articles or made it possible to acquire or otherwise prevented the use of them’. In fact, if he delivers the material he carried before he has been checked by the police, he must be released and not be prosecuted for possession, nor even examined whether he is responsible for their construction, nor how they are supplied. The issue of the construction and possession of explosives, i.e. molotovs, which have turned Athens, Thessaloniki and many other cities into a battlefield between police and self-determination anarchists now takes new dimensions. The uncontrolled gang action and the conversion of areas of Athens to forces of public order are the result of the perception of the government's rulers of violence and crime. At the time that policemen say they are in danger - and we see it - their physical integrity on a daily basis and we shall mourn victims, as they say. At the time that various hailers throughout Greece are threatening lives and property by using molotovs the government through the bill, the Ministry of Justice turns into a flood and acquittal if they peacefully hand over their weapons. In view of the fact that, on the basis of the fundamental Article 2 of the Criminal Code on the retroactive effect of the softer law, these provisions will apply to cases in which proceedings have already been instituted or already been laid down. Manslaughter with lukewarm. Life is a supreme good. The most painful crime that can be committed within the organised social system is the removal of human life. Worldwide, when someone with intent kills another, the sentence is life imprisonment. I am vertically opposed to the depreciation of the top legal good, and this is because the new draft law provides for divorces and the temporary detention of at least 10 years, except for life in prison in the crime of fraud by fraud, Article 299 of the Criminal Code. The old regime and the reduction of the penalty must be maintained by recognising the lightening circumstances, as is self-evident. Repeal of Articles 150 and 151, distortion of evidence and abuse of competence. With the new provisions, Articles 150 and 151 of the Criminal Code are repealed. What does Article 150, which penalises anyone with intent to falsify, destroy or conceal documents or other objects that can be used to prove rights or to support the interests of the Greek state or ally in another State? Article 151, which is repealed, punishes by imprisonment persons representing the country in negotiations with foreign governments and causes damage to the interests of the negotiating country. We're removing the article. The aim of this article was to prevent the representatives of Greece from "exploiting" their capacity by harming the interests of the country. This article, which is now repealed, provided that any person who, as a proxy of the Greek State or its allies, carries out such or other government cases of his order in such a way as to cause damage to the order, that is, to the Greek State, is punished by imprisonment, as referred to in the article entitled 'Utilisation of proxy', and is part of the current Criminal Code in the chapter 'Presidency of the country'. The abolition of this article is obviously linked, in my humble view, to the Ambassadors' agreement. In order to degrade the staff member's corruption crime, my colleagues have said it and I do not want to abuse your time. Elimination of articles 198, 199, and 201 of the Criminal Code, namely articles punishing malicious blasphemy, devotion of religions and contempt for the dead. The abolition of Articles 198, 199, and 201 of the Criminal Code, concerning malicious blasphemy, devotion of religions and conceiving the dead, will have a particularly negative effect on the good of religious and social peace in our country. In practical terms, therefore, the above-mentioned changes mean that anyone, without risking to be punished, publicly abusing the god, blaspheming the aunt, publicly devoiding the public and maliciously in any way the Eastern Orthodox official religion of the Greek State and any other recognised religion by the Greek State, will be able to make a mock-up of a dead man, as well as a lot of other offenses, which, until now at least, are considered to be flattering and criminal sanctions. It is an undeniable need to preserve the cultural and intellectual identity of our people and it is absolutely essential to stop the degradation of Greek society from its time-consuming values. The restoration of the spiritual fabric of the Orthodox Church must be stopped, the weakening of Orthodoxy during this critical period of our country, which, at a time when religious fanaticism in the neighbour, only strengthens tragic consequences. For the decriminating of malicious blasphemy we lead to malicious religious self - control. Conversion of sentence from prison to prison, violation of secret telephone communication and oral conversation. Article 370 of the Criminal Code. Article 370 of the Penal Code, briefly, until first paragraph, laid down in paragraph 1, that any person who is unfairly, in any way, intervenes in a device used for communication, such as the telephone, for example, in order to be informed or to capture the so-called, shall be punished by imprisonment for up to 10 years. Now, with the same behavior, the imprisonment threatened is 'a prison'. Furthermore, paragraph 2 of that Article provided that anyone who unfairly monitors by means of technical means or captures by means of an oral conversation between third parties or captures by a non-public body of another is punishable by means of a sentence of up to 10 years. Now, in the same manner, the imprisonment threatened is at least one year's imprisonment. With the proposed provisions, the felony of the illegal recording of telephone conversation is being damaged, a crime for which various of our friends are being controlled here in the government. The Government, through its legislative intervention, attempts to reduce all the penalties provided for in the relevant article today, while deleting a specific provision made by the article on crime, as well as the homicide by negligence. This despair affects the cause of the tragedy in Matty, and it's understandable. Increasing the heaviest penalty by each of these current penalties, which may be committed for negligence on a continuous basis and for many victims, is less than four months if the penalty is greater than two years, is one year if this penalty is in prison for up to 10 years and two years if the penalty is in prison for more than 10 years. If the serial crimes were committed in an act, the court was free to increase gravity in the stirring sentences. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] That's well known. To God, I do not want to go into the fields of others, but we must pay special attention to this part, because with the crimes committed in Matti and Mandra, at least those two that have happened in the last four years, we must be very careful in the way that the Criminal Procedures, but also our judges, will come, after the vote on this law and its strength, to make decisions fair to the public, not only a feeling, but also the human lives saved, because we have not listened to it, but also to find at least the end in the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u55	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-six students and students and four teachers attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Chios. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Liberaki from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not a lawyer. And that will appear in my word and in my wording. Since I cannot therefore speak on the basis of the words of discipline, which I do not serve, I shall speak politically, but not in the sense of the usual, but in the sense of how a simple citizen perceives the changes that are taking place these days, this day, today, with the codes that we are voting on. In the minds of the ordinary citizen, my own, it is never the wrong time for the House to go ahead with rationalising and modernising the system of penalties and harmonising international practices. It is never the wrong time to deal with modern issues that were not in the previous situation, such as Internet crimes, cross-border crimes, etc. It is never a bad time to abolish antiquated criminal provisions. Finally, it is never a bad time to take steps to improve the lives of detainees. From the point of view of the Potami MP, a liberal MEP, who says goodbye, as well as Mr Venizelos the House for other reasons than he, I would like to say that for us in the river the most important thing is that the new codes have been dispersed from the outset. There are smaller penalties, but with more difficult suspension. Because we have understood, ladies and gentlemen, that the very great penalty does not work deterrently for the man who is thinking about committing a crime. The very long sentence can dissuade the mind of the man who is in court, because it may seem asymmetric to him in relation to the crime he committed. Therefore, and while I have been fermented throughout my entire youth in the movements feminist and I understand the extreme language and the forming of demand, the recognition that rape without physical harm is different from rape with physical harm is a logic - I think - discrimination. I would also like to stress that it is important from the point of view of the river that many comments and improvements proposed during the public consultation have been adopted. The severe punishment of racist crime is particularly important to me. I do not want to go any further, because our rapporteur, Mr Mavrotas, has said so in very detail. However, I would like to say, as far as the Code of Criminal Procedure is concerned, that the most important innovation for me is that it introduces the institution of criminal negotiation, transaction, extrajudicial - if you want - a solution that ultimately disproves the time and activity of the courts and ultimately improves the effectiveness of justice. On gender issues which I would certainly like to mention, I would like to say that it is important that for the first time the offence of sexual harassment is standardised. I didn't hear anyone else mention it. Inside the oracle of complaints has gone unnoticed. It's very important. I want to go back to the subject of rape. If the Minister can blow it up a little bit. But it makes sense to have a softer sentence. Talk to people who have received physical violence and talk to people who have received psychological violence. Usually, physically - subjected people also have psychological violence. If you conclude that it's exactly the same thing, I think we're just repeating the mistakes of our youth without being young anymore. But I would also like to stress something else there. Since the case of rape without consensus is not described by the exercise of psychological violence, or because the other is considered a felony, the tendency would be that every time it would be very much needed - a great burden of proof in order to be condemned. Here too, it brings us back to what I see as a ordinary citizen and I am not sure that I am making this right, that the very strict penalty prevents the description of an act from being described as a criminal, because it is considered to be extremely cruel the penalty that arises from there. I therefore prefer a system of rules that allows justice to be served in a whole range of shades, if you like, of crimes with different penalties, rather than just keeping its most extreme, beaten and criminalised side and to fly the ball after who raises it and who characterises it. Let me finish with the issues of Timing, of timing. We talked about it and were troubled by the Conference of Presidents yesterday. It seems that there is an obsession with Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament traditionally to give a terrible importance to why something is being done when it is being done and who is actually benefiting. A small resonance of this argument has been heard and when exactly it will start to apply, whether it will be on 1 July or 1 September and who will benefit in the meantime. Look at something, our job is to take a step back and see the big picture and every moment she has her own winners and losers and her own winners and losers. If these particular losers and certain winners are not present at the moment, there will be others at the next moment. We cannot try to formulate a policy and the future of this country, looking at the ends of our shoes, who will benefit small and narrow now or tomorrow or the other month. I would therefore like to throw this over us in the burden of proof, that something that we are doing today does not benefit anyone who would never benefit and that, if we have a second thought, we prefer not to discuss anything and not to resolve any question, because we are accountable for the benefit, for example, of Mr Koulubourdakis in Colopetinitsa. And that's wrong. From the point of view of a liberal party from the Centre, which has been eclipsed and therefore Parliament's biodiversity policy is falling, but not the political scene I hope, I would like to say that it is very good to concentrate on the steps we need to take for tomorrow, without looking at the immediate, close consequences it has for today and yesterday. Only then do we have a chance to get away from these vicious circles and really talk politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Liberty. Mr. Chironis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position, I cannot fail to mention Mr Loverd's infamous and abusive position. Mr Loverdouard called us '...' because we continue to be in this Parliament. Of course, she agreed to leave the Minutes, but the placement exists and I have to answer politically. Mr President, I was elected by the Greek people and I am here on the mandate of the Greek people and not on the orders of any Loverdus, no Gennamatas and no Mitsotakis. And the only human being, the only citizen in this country, who will tell me to stop being in this Parliament is the President of the Republic. When the President of the Republic instructs me to stop being a Member of Parliament, the next day I will cease being a Member of the European Parliament, at the same time I will cease to be a Member of the European Parliament. Any other person who, in his political view, in his own ideology doubts this Parliament is '...' he is a fascist, because he is no different from George Papadopoulos, who, according to his own will, found that for the good of the country and his ideology Parliament had to stop running and he instructed himself. Who is Mr. Loverdos who will indicate how many days this House has been working? I am going to say the very simple example: if the House were to come to its normal end, if it had to be based on the constitutional order, based on the mandate of the Constitution, we were to dismantle and go normally rather than in early elections, what would happen, that is? One day ago, ten days ago, a month ago, should the House not legislate and should its parliamentary work be stopped? Who's gonna say that? Mr. Loverdos? In America there are the presidents who have lost the mandate, because they lose the elections in November - and there their Constitution is really historic, it is an ancient constitution, it is one of the oldest constitutions - and yet they perform their duties normally until they deliver to their successor and produce political work. I therefore consider this position unacceptable and move to the county. Of course, here we are not talking about the customer arrangements that the House voted on in 2014 and early 2015, last hour before it was dissolved, because these have also been done. We are talking about a huge reform, because one of the biggest problems in the Greek state is the delay in justice. However, I must refer to the matter of rape and I shall refer to the Minister. So it says here, here, the law - and we said that we would have a legal improvement and expect it - that anyone with physical violence, a threat of serious or immediate life-threatening, physical integrity is forced to another in an operation or tolerance of a sexual act is punished by imprisonment. And we're saying we're gonna add psychological violence and a few more. That's not rape. Rape is sexual act without consent. It's over and out. Why am I saying that? 80%, from what I've read, sociology studies, rapes that destroy lives are done without any obvious physical harm or threat of life or threat of physical integrity. The husband, the inadmissible person who rapes his wife, and she undergoes so as not to know anything about children, the unacceptable relative who even the adult teenager is dying of her, without any blackmail, just so that Dad doesn't know it, so that the domestic peace of the soybean is not disturbed, the man who in the name of someone - I don't know whom - love is doing this, but he doesn't want to ruin her relationship, actually maliciously malignant. These thousands of cases how could they be integrated into this article? How could it be documented? Because even psychological violence, from the point of view of the order we have seen the latter, entails a threat. But what's the threat in the end? Here I will read to you what Article 36 of the Barcelona Convention says, which we here in this Parliament voted on this year: "Contracting non-consensual, vaginal, anal or oral infiltration of a sexual character into another person's body by using any body or object, committing other non-consensual sexual acts to the individual, forcing another person to participate in non-consensual acts of sexual character with a third person. Secondly, consensus shall be provided voluntarily as a result of the free will of the individual assessed in the circumstances.’ It is also a legal text, not a pillistic or anything. We therefore say something very simple and I also express the Deputy Minister, Mr Diaras, who also belongs to the Green Economists and we have reached agreement. We do not agree to vote on any other provision that is not of that nature. We do not accept escalation, because rape is a bad crime, not a threat, because it threatens physical integrity or because someone is afraid of physical violence, but because it destroys lives, destroys souls, destroys human dignity. Can't we understand this notorious difference, the simple thing, that if I break my personality, you dispel my dignity, is it far worse than threatening to break my face or skin my hands or cause me bruises that will prove me by a coroner? Do we not realize how heinous this act is when the victim does not consent? So I can't understand it. Consensus is a specific word, it is a definition, and here I mentioned an international text that our country has ratified. So I ask the Minister to see better legislation, to put consensus in place. We will be glad to see this and really see that it will be completed in dialogue. We're waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u59	We solved this, it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u60	Be well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too. Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister of Justice, ladies and gentlemen, this may be my last speech in this parliamentary session. It is, however, of a semantic nature without me seeking it. By focusing on the fact that my minimisity has chosen to be here, at this step of the House, contrary to those who left - and of course fully respect this right - so that I, as a sworn servant of those who trusted me in this Parliament and who have tried to return it in the form of law at this four-year time, continue at the very last moment to defend not only their legitimate and fair demands and their rights in a state full of strife and sufferings, but above all to support their democratic perceptions and their freedoms to the extent that I believe, Mr Minister, are being affected by articles of this legislation today. And since, ladies and gentlemen, I have never chosen abstention in my life as a method of confrontation, I am here to state, of course, my opinion and my position on a flagship - I would say - a piece of legislation, the need to draw up a legal act of nearly seven decades and the scientific study of tens of legal systems in order to investigate and deal with new legal conditions. However, from the quick reading I have managed to do - because a thorough study could not be achieved in the four hundred sixty-nine articles of this legislation - a key point - I begin with that, ladies and gentlemen - which affects the religious core of Greece is the abolition of Articles 198 and 199 of the Criminal Code, as is currently the case, regarding religious exaltation. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, let me tell you that in many ways you have excruciated - those of you who have done so - your atheism does not mean that this legalises you in insulting the religious feelings of an entire people by denouncing the devotion of the divine. You legalize me - symbolically speaking of myself - to devour my religion, to swear my God, Jesus Christ, my Holy Mary, but also to curse the other accepted religions on Greek territory, Muslimism, Buddhism, Hinduism. So devouring God - something that is not illegal - I will anger him, with any consequences that will result. And it will not be illegal if the abolition of these two Articles 198 and 199 of the Code passes. I want to remind you a little, if my memory doesn't cheat on me, it was in 2008, when a post about Muhammad in a newspaper - forgive me, my memory doesn't help - lifted up all Muslims and the muslims. They ripped the marbles from the Constitution and from the center of Athens, became the weapons of these religious minorities and demolished all the shops and buildings of Athens. The damage was many millions. Also, do you imagine the citizens crossing the street, the pavement, inviting the uncles? I cannot understand what society we are going to shape and what standards we are going to impose by abolishing these provisions. But I don't want to believe that such a society you dream of. The argument of freedom of speech and of criticism cannot stand when the Court of Human Rights itself has held that the relevant laws, which are also provided for in other European states, do not violate the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights. Why, then, is that such a thing? I don't understand it on your part, against the popular feeling. And here I stop what I started to say about Articles 198 and 199, which I very much urge you not to abolish. It is certain, and we have all experienced it, that the Greek endures. It endures economic pressure, work insecurity, precarious future expectation, but whoever attempted to hurt the loyal and sacred of the tribe and of the homeland did not respond to the Greek, on the contrary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some more time, please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u63	Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u64	Thank you. So let us understand what the progressiveity of this amendment is. As long as this action is inconsistent with the common sense, yet so much inconsistent with common sense is the proposal to amend articles on crimes relating to sexual freedom. It is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, to categorise the rape introduced by Article 336 of the legislation in question. Is there really light and heavy rape? Is there a rape of will and without the will of the raper? It doesn't fit our minds, it doesn't fit. I think you should listen to the objections made during the consultation, but also after the text has been published. The graduation of rape is incomprehensible. Is there a "little rape" and "very rape"? Oh, no. At this point I say, finally think, when it comes to voting, what changes you will make to contribute to a proper legal framework for the concept of rape. Another point to which I should like to focus - and I shall end with that - is the conversion of offences such as fraud, embezzlement, theft, burglary, delinquency and the introduction of softer treatment for illegal people. Is it possible, really, to say that if someone steals a mobile object, is they punished by imprisonment of up to three years or a financial penalty, and if he enters a house with a break-in and steals objects of particularly high value are punished by a year or a financial penalty? I am referring to Article 372. I would like to believe that the article has been written by mistake. I told you we were up late to do a reading, not a thorough study. If I'm wrong, I'm wrong because of the time pressure. However, if I have not made a mistake and what I am saying is right, I would like to believe that the article has been written in such a way that otherwise our reasoning should lead to other shameful ones. Look at it, because in my opinion it's wrong. Another point imposed on you is the loose treatment of those who bribe but also those who bribe. Is it possible when all of us have become aware of many of these cases, which we are struggling with, to reduce penalties from ten years to three years, and especially when it is a state official? I am referring to Articles 235 and 236. And, of course, the cherries in the cake are the conversion by a felony into a crime of money laundering. Do you really want to take some time off? Is your pursuit the disintegration of the social fabric? No one understands this obsessive speed with which you want to finish it all. However, large-scale decommissioning legislation, such as the Criminal Code, should be shared and the legal world of the country has been spoken out and put in place. Now you will pass yourself a doubtful objectivity and impartiality piece of legislation. So, with this piece of legislation, which causes the common sense of citizens, the whole of the scientific community, the vast majority of the country's political forces, but also the fundamental logic of saying that we must denounce it and vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too. Mrs. Kozobol from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u66	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is a nice day, since seven decades later two emblematic instruments, which are a work of historical importance, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code, are to be voted on. On the fine day the resounding absence, apart from the River, of Antipopulation, is shattering, once again sacrificing legitimacy for the sake of political, micropolitical, I would say, feasibility. They hypocrisyly invoke the institutions that are undermining. The New Democracy speaks of a delegated parliament, which opened for settlements. We also heard similar statements from the parliamentary groups who left the process of voting the codes. These statements are all made up and conceal the truth. They conceal that the House has never closed down to open up and that, in accordance with its Constitution and its Rules of Procedure, the comprehensive reform of the two codes is not an arrangement, that the codes to be voted on are not a product of party inspiration, but a hard work of the legislators, which have been created both by the present Government and by earlier governments. The difference lies in the fact that the final draft that arrived at the hands of the current Minister of Justice did not remain in the drawer, was filed in the House and in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament will be state law tomorrow. The specific behaviour of counter-population has offended the distinguished scientists who have worked for many years, whose work has had due publicity. The final draft was put into consultation and their comments were incorporated into the draft law under discussion and under the vote, an exemplary process, which they despised for communication terminology. In addition, while avoiding taking a stand on key issues dealt with by codes, they disperse false news to terrorise citizens. I think that only one word in this attitude fits:'shuffle'! They'll be judged by history. The drafting and legislating of the new Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure was an undeniable need - it has long been highlighted by a wide range of legal bodies and individuals - primarily concerning society and not just the legal world. Accelerating the administration of justice, renewing and modernising the system of criminal sanctions, as well as material, are the main objectives of the new codes. After seventy years of their validity and given the radical technological, economic and social changes at local and global level, the need for them to be rationalised is obvious. This great effort has been made and carried out by the members of the two legislatures, who, of course, have also incorporated the scientific work of the former, prominent legislators, professors of legal schools, judges and lawyers - some of whom are here today and we thank them very much - and we thank them for their well-known scientific and personal prestiges with a broad and modern look at the criminal and procedural system. The result of their work is in line with the legal and anthropocentric spirit, but also with the directions, suggestions of the European Courts and standards, in particular as regards the balance between excessive penalties and excessive due diligence in their performance. Changes in the Criminal Code are many and essential. I would point out some of them: the abolition of cases as crimes and their treatment as administrative infringements. This avoids unnecessary suffering for citizens, judiciary and judicial services. The reform of the system of penalties, by reducing the risk of excessive rigour - for example, in life sentences or in the upper limit of temporary, in the treatment of minors and elsewhere - by strengthening the criminal penalties threatened by the management of criminal organisations, those who are sexually exploiting minors, the perpetrators of racist crimes, but also by extending the penalty framework to other forms of rape beyond the existing ones. On this point - and because the opposite is spreading - I would like to note that the draft law maintains rape as a felony. Refers explicitly to Article 336(1). By adding paragraph 2 of that Article, which provides that ‘a feminine act is the coexistence and equal treatment of acts’, the scope and the possibility of proving the unlawful act shall be extended. Furthermore, the chapter of the Criminal Code "Crimes against sexual freedom and economic exploitation of sexual life" includes many other criminalisations, i.e. other crimes, which do not have the gravity requirements of paragraph 1 of 336, but include acts that are sexual and are carried out without the consent of the victim. Those acts shall be punished in accordance with the specific circumstances of different provisions, such as paragraph 5, which shall also be added to Article 336 and shall endeavour to cover cases not covered by paragraph 1. Article 343 also penalises anyone who obliges another in an undertaking or tolerance of a sexual act, exploiting work dependency or the need for the other person to work or for the stay of a person in prison or healing establishments. Let me note here that the imprisonment sentence imposed is being carried out. So the truth is that nonconsensual acts in the sexual field are punished. Furthermore, in the new codes, it is very important that the role of social benefits is upgraded - a constant demand for legal and non-world - and it is now a self-evident penalty instead of repression, imprisonment in prisons. It works, thus, as an alternative penalty for depriving freedom and will make a maximum contribution to decongestion of prisons and integration of offenders into society. A single quantitative criterion is established, a damage of over one hundred and twenty thousand for felonies against the property, and the anachronist n.1608/1950 is abolished, while at the same time maintaining the strictness of the framework against those who put hands on the public property. In the Code of Criminal Procedure, I will only say that the institution of criminal conciliation will contribute to the maximum - among others - to speeding up the administration of justice. I do not extend to individual interesting and correct changes. I conclude by saying that the essence of the new codes consists of a large section, a major reform. Citizens, the legal world and the history of the future will remember and record the simple truth. Despite the work that has often been delivered by the legislators, this important reform of the new codes is carried out by the present government with the strong absence of the Members of the New Democracy, the Change Movement and the Communist Party. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Georgios Psychogios from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Legal Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the front of discussing and voting for the draft laws on the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code to harmonise the Greek legal order, which has always been at a very progressive and very advanced level in these matters, but to harmonise it and modernise it even further on the basis of the international and European legal order. Here I would like to comment very quickly on what Mr Loverdos said, which I think is not honouring this Chamber, because we need to respect this sacred space much more and our colleagues and - secondly - to say that the attitude of counter-population serves outrightly toward legality. So, starting with the Code of Criminal Procedure - the individual provisions have been mentioned in detail by our rapporteurs - I would like to dwell on the new institutions of criminal negotiation, the criminal order and the criminal dispute, which are truly pioneering and will help to disarm the courts and, of course, on the system of measures relating to minors, by guaranteeing them special treatment. For the Criminal Code I think that modernising the criminal sanctions system - a consistent request for decades from all sides - and addressing issues affected by technological progress and social and political developments, are very important issues. I would also like to say, among other things, that in cases where property or service felonies are directed against the Greek public, there are now heavier penalties. Thus, combined with the lengthening of the limitation period from the fifteen to twenty years, the protection of public property is guaranteed and Law 1608/1950, which is abolished, so that we do not have these phenomena that we have seen with the cleaners, which have been punished exterminately and irrationally on the basis of this framework. Procedures for confiscation and restoration of financial damage are also provided. The supply of social benefits is being relegated to a main sentence now and not to a condition for the reduction of the sentence. The conversion of the custodial penalty into money is abolished so that we do not have all these phenomena of the withdrawal of the sentences and, ultimately, they are not reliable and, of course, there are no provisions of anachronistic nature, such as the criminality of the strike of civil servants. I would like to continue to mention some of the corrections which have been made and which have to do with all the consultation that has taken place in the previous period. It is very important to mention that there was an interaction. We had our ears open to society, the institutions and the political parties that remain racist crime. It is a very important provision that shows the special indulgence to the legitimate good and constitutes a prestigious occasion for the racist motive, a crime for which we have very recently seen a relevant decision from the Athens Court of Appeal. Also, on the subject of rape, which has been discussed many times, I believe that, with the improvement that the Minister has announced, he is adequately addressed and punished on the basis of the demands made. However, on this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer back to the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice - from 2015 onwards - which brought many bills, which were particularly honoured to us, brought the country to a higher level of culture and politics and which we represent in the international organisations, we saw clearly that our image and our presence were well better. I am referring to the abolition of Type III prisons which the opposition and, above all, the New Democracy wants to bring back by putting the prison back into prison, i.e. excluding all rights once a person is locked up in prison. Because we know very well that all that is lacking when it is imprisoned is its freedom. Type III prisons increase crime because they create time bombs in the penitentiary. Subsequently, we have upgraded infrastructure in many penitentiaries in the country through second- opportunity schools, through rural prisons through female prisons. Other moves by co-legislative ministries had to do with the area of rights and freedoms, whether individual or social, because we know that there is a universality in dealing with human rights. So we tried not to let go and abolish the other. To function uniformly in the logic of the universality of rights. In this sense, therefore, we have brought the bill on the citizenship of the second generation of children who have been or were born in that country and who so far did not have the right to receive Greek citizenship. We then brought the cohabitation pact, which we extended for all couples, without discrimination. We have brought the abolition of the compulsoryity of the sharia which was a stable and consistent issue, which the Council of Europe was working on, from which we were forced to do so. So we have legislation that too. We have brought the ratification of the Istanbul Convention to prevent race and domestic violence. We are one of the last to bring about ratification of such legislation, including the corresponding structures and funding to be implemented in practice. We brought the new system of admission and childbirth that the Greek society has been waiting for for decades. And, of course, Greece today is fighting refugee and immigration on a counter-protected path from the rest of Europe, with respect for international law, human rights and the Geneva Convention. We must continue and fight to influence all other countries too. I have referred, for example, to some of the things we have done in recent years, which, I think, have brought a revolution to the right and the rule of law in relation to what we have seen for decades. I close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that for this SYRIZA parliamentary group, I am proud, because it is made up of people who, at both legal and political level, have a huge route. I'm sure that all together and in the next period will continue to fight for a world in the booby of dreams and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Constantine Dousinas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. We've all seen the portrayal of justice as a woman with a scale and usually closed eyes. In other words, justice as a weighing and a balance. Criminal law is precisely the place in which this concept of balancing and weighing principles and values is central. What are these principles? I'll just say it. With so many colleagues and friends professors of Criminal Law, I am just a professor of the philosophy of law. On the one hand, we have the public asset in security, in the prevention of crime, in the protection of citizens, and on the other hand we have the dignity, the human rights of all participants in the criminal proceedings, but, above all, the defendant, the convicted and punished, the prisoner, etc., with a view, of its reform and its return to society. German philosopher Hegel said at the beginning of the 19th century that punishment is a recognition of the dignity and identity of the criminal. In fact, he said that the convict and the criminal - even the one sentenced to death - must want his sentence, because he makes him a real and full man. Of course, in the two centuries that passed since, the scientists, the Criminal Science, the Criminology, the Penitentiary, have introduced humanity principles into the Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure. So we have reached this balance, what we are trying to assess today, but also under any other legal state law regime, is precisely whether this balance seems to be a success, whether both sides of the balance have been taken into account. In recent years, however, since 1989 - and I, of course, know more about the Anglo-American world - we have a turn and the Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure to greater rigour, greater penalties, stricter conditions for the creation of penalties and, of course, greater stay in prisons and the creation of these special prisons, what was heard before, of Type III prisons and so on. In fact, we have other features, such as that certain minorities tend to be disproportionately represented in the population of prisoners. For example, in America 10% of all new black, African, one time they go to jail. Why did this happen? Why do we have this strictening of all sides of the criminal system? I would say very simply and quickly that there are two reasons. The first is that over the last thirty, forty years with what is probably called too much and wrong, with the entry of neoliberalism, with the withdrawal of the social state, the world, the citizens of Western Europe have received a message that the individual, atomisation, the interests of each of us are in the very heart of the political exercise, the individual desire for an economic machine. The other is either an obstacle to my plans, or it's a tool, which I can use precisely to achieve my plans. In this self-centered direction, the line between legality and illegality has begun to weaken and become a continuum, a continuation, between legal and illegal behaviour. Above all, we see this in the so-called 'White-collar rimes', 'white-collar crimes', 'white-collar crimes', above-mentioned officials and those related to management, banks, where, of course, the penalty is much lower. But we knew this from Hobbs' period. Hobbs had said that if consent to Leviathan, to the state, to the State, is to retreat, then the only way in which social peace can be achieved is the judge, the guardian and the executor. And they are just through the retreat of those sources and resources that create the acceptance and consent of the citizens - a large part of the citizens - to the state that we have this situation. We knew that. In other words, we knew that this so-called 'neoliberalisation', this retreat of social rights and other rights, would lead to an increase in both illegality and crime, and also to the rigour of state responses to this phenomenon. That is where the so-called intimidation policy has been added. From September 11th, and then around the world, throughout the English-speaking world, which I know best, we had - that is exactly what I said before - tightening up, creating peculiar crimes, increasing penalties, increasing the time to create penalties, etc. The fear of crime became a policy tool. And we come here very soon. Here the situation was peculiar to a large extent. The bill of selective colleagues goes ahead towards modernising and rationalising the criminal system. Just to say a word about how to build sentences, in particular prison sentences, and to say a slogan, which we say in England, and this is: imprisonment is the sentence. The way to build the sentence - either as a punishment or as a debilitator - is not a punishment. I think, to a large extent, that this new Criminal Code, which, by mobilising the sentences and how they are to be exercised, is going in the right direction and goes against what I said before about the other legal systems of the West. I want to say two words about rape. I believe that the biggest problem we had with regard to the history of rape was the public debate that took place, which gave the impression - and with some lies that have been heard about the abolition of its malicious property - to many and many people that rape is not a major crime. That was obviously a lie, but this kind of debate I think strengthens a concept that is generally found in society and which makes rape one of the most underestimated crimes at all levels. It's an extremely common, but invisible crime. In Great Britain, research shows that up to 92% of rapes are not reported to the police. Over and above that 92%, of the rest of the 8%, only 8% goes to trial and only 3% have sentences for rape. That is to say, at all levels at which the state is facing this crime, we have a significant downturn. In Greece one out of five women - according to one of the best investigations we have - will have to have sexual relations without consent, they will be raped, and most of them do not mention it anywhere. 80% of rape is not reported and is often considered to be a crime against women's honour and not a crime in public order, and of course the majority of the rapists are not the unknown rapist, who is also the object of fear and terror for women, but someone in their family or environment. These are elements that exist in international literature in full I think they are recorded. I have the honour - and the difficulty - of my partner, Joanna Burkere, to be probably the most famous international researcher on rape issues and her books are translated into Greek and I have learned them in close proximity. I want to end with this: I obviously recognise the problem that has been experienced and the debate that has taken place, but when we speak scientifically and also in a teaching way towards our society, which, to a large extent, devalues the enormous and unacceptable and destructive crime on the part of the victims, we must say very clearly: Sexual act without consensus is rape, perfect and dash. I understand that probably right now, through the peculiarities and the other technical issues that have arisen, it was probably not possible to do so. However, any sexual act without explicit and clear consent is rape. ‘No’ means ‘no’, even if the victim is under the influence of alcohol, if he sleeps, if he is in anesthesia. In all these cases there is rape and the greatest obligation I think of the political and legal system is to make a series of reforms, not only in the last point, which is the criminal trial - as I said, very few cases end up in the criminal trial worldwide and here - but from the first level, in the police, in training police officers to be able to speak with the victims, with those who come to denounce, and at the whole level of the criminal procedure. I would like to conclude by saying that with Mr Venizelos we are colleagues. I am his older and has used my work and the work of “Critical legal studies” repeatedly in the past. Here in this House we have had a lot of contradictions, but I think it is important that I, as a university colleague and until the end of the future, should say good-bye to this Chamber. We have had great differences, but this is an important parliamentary man. To finish, for me personally, as a Member for the first time in my life, and after a very long term term in university bolts and abroad, it was a great experience and must end - because this is probably my last speech in this period and possibly in the next - to thank the Bureau but, above all, the Services of this House. Meeting colleagues from Parliament's Services I met some of the most effective and I think of the most collaborative people in my life. They do not receive the full recognition they deserve and I think it is important to say this again and again: Without the officials and services of the House we could not function and we must thank them again. Finally, to all my colleagues: I was bitterly bitter, as President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we had many problems and many challenges - of course, with the Prespecies Agreement - there were also attacks and convergences, but I think we all tried to do everything we could. However, as our last - possibly - speech in this Parliament, we have to say that the work of democracy does not stop, it will continue. We have served it better or worse, but I think we are all dating - and I hope the Greek people - are wiser than this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u71	We thank Mr Duissina for having been a separate voice in this Chamber, and I believe he will be entirely useful to Parliament. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Spyros Lappas, now has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm starting with a confidence. As a lawyer, from my young years to now, I have used the writings, opinions, scientific pages, the legal pen of all the prefectures and in mind - you know - of the lawyers of a regional court, such as Carditsa, even the Larissa Court, all these top pennies of legal thought looked like in our minds as "the giants of legal culture". I see by my side now and coming down from the Step last day of the House convening today and tomorrow, I will really be very impressed by their presence and not only by their personal presence but also by what they have done to create the whole legal project. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and here I am speaking on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, legal science is classified, according to the Cedrof pyramid, which is the ranking of sciences in the theoretical, humanitarian sciences. And in that sense, it has and must have, both in our country and throughout the world, a completely anthropocentric character, and this must leap the thought of both the researcher and the lawmaker and the parliament that is legislating. And I think that this very element of the anthropocentric of legal thought is captured, absolutely I would say, in the draft of the two codes that we have before us. And that is why we are proud of you, and of the Greek Parliament and, more generally, of the legal community. You see that the House today meets with the absence of the Civilian Opposition Party. Here open a parentheses. Civic Opposition has an absolute political, parliamentary and constitutional role, very important. The parentheses are closed. We're almost just the majority and the river. Nevertheless, I and I insist and insist that we do well and discuss the codes, that is, the proposals, and that requires a courage and remind the friend and Minister of Justice a phrase by the Plutarch: "The beginning of the gar defeats the courage". So that is what I consider to be a courageous decision, a courageous initiative, a courageous political and parliamentary choice. So it's the first of a serious legal and constitutional victory. I heard before Mr Dousina, with whom we worked on several committees with mainly less political and more scientific - legal - such as the Scandal Research Committees that we had huge and serious legal issues. Dear Kostas, it may be our last meeting today at the benches of the Greek Parliament and certainly leaving the House today, which we do not know if we will be here again the next election season, I keep our meeting deep in my soul and the impressions that I have gained from our relationship. But since you are a professor of the Law’s Philosophy, I want again as a preamble to this position to say what you are writing in your books. One man asked me now: "What is this law anyway, why is it so important?" Another question asked me why the importance of it is catalytic and still recommends that we find details. I'll say something in your book. The law, as Mr Dousinas has analysed the substance of the law, that is, human creation - construction is a priori incomplete, and that is why it is envisaged to amend it, to update it sometimes and often to abolish it. So the law is not the same as the law, but it is the necessary tool, perhaps the only tool to find the law. That is what you say, Mr Dousina, and I fully accept it. Also, to fill in something. This morning, before I went to the provisions of the Criminal Code, in the debate I had outside with a chosen colleague - not a legal, selective colleague, scientist - on what the law can do, in this conversation that we remembered a phrase by Martin Luther King in the years of the curse and cholera in the United States in the 50s and 60s, which is the period of racial discrimination, the wild hunter of colors, etc., etc. So Martin Luther King said: "It is true that the law cannot force a man to love me, but it can prevent him from lingering me, and that is too, too, very important." So that's what the law can do. And by closing my introduction - because I come from the law-enforcement body - and seeing here in the first row the honourable Member, Mr. Christoforos Argyropoulos, who is also ministering from the first grade of science and integrity in the criminal hearings, to honour the law-enforcement body beyond the professors of the university and the law-enforcementers, who clearly showed what they can do with the designs, I would say, as Henry Robert says in a book of 'The law-enforcement' that: 'The legal body is as old as the judiciary, as noble and as necessary as justice'. Ladies and gentlemen, in reply to Mr Loverdos earlier on this unprecedented attitude towards the majority Members of the House, impoverishing them and incapable of understanding the provisions of the two Criminal Codes, I think it is a major insult, not only of the individuality of colleagues, especially legal and all colleagues, but also of a serious offense of parliamentary ethos and parliamentary order, and I would point this out. I would point out this because he and his party prefer it, as well as the political opposition party, instead of coming here and developing a dialogue on two flagship issues, such as the recommendation, the setting-up of the two Criminal Codes, which I would say will be the depository of parliamentary and political life and the law, of course, prefer outside the Halls to go every second, every minute, every minute, all radios and televisions and the media and newspapers and report, says the majority, because it is moving towards the vote of the codes, even leaving serious hints, heavy ones and for the members of the committees, saying that they have been subjected to the intentions and humility of the government, i.e. SYRIZA. They say exactly the same as they said a month or two ago about all the judicial officers dealing with cases sent by the House to justice. It is precisely the same argument, the same record, which I denounce and away from us, at least from the SYRIZA Members. After all, I would also say away from the people of legal science, because legal science is arraigned when there is an enduring dialogue. After all, we know the phrase "audi alteram party" or "always for the sake of any other reason" or has made it to pieces that form the basis, the root, the backbone of criminal science internationally and in our country of course. Or if you would like the phrase of Heraklitos "of the various kinds of harmony." We cannot here, from the fertile dialogue, get to a composition, such an important legislative initiative, such as the drafting of the two codes, which do not satisfy a party or a minister's wishes. The citizens and the Greek society must understand that the codes, as they come, satisfy basic, strong social needs and in this sense also concern democracy as a whole. I will not forget, of course, that the way the colleagues of the two other parties are dealing with the media and not with Parliament, in wanting to achieve a dialogue, we are reaching a time when one would say that at the information level we are in a period of monstrous times. Again yesterday - and today - I heard that the SYRIZA codes - say - abolish life imprisonment, etc. I don't want to talk about it. Points and monsters! Incredible things! And, indeed, journalists say that and publish them at the time when they are talking to fellow lawyers of the other parties. So no one understands that political feasibility, the political criterion of overcoming scientific and legal power, will indeed be at a time of monsters. Legal science is also a barrier, it is also a shield, it is both the ideal of the citizen and the MP. If any legal colleague forgets this, I think he is making a big mistake. We know, however, why colleagues are doing so. They remember Harold Lazuel's phrase saying that 'whoever controls the information is sure to check fully'. That's what they do. They're checking the media. But that's not how it works, unfortunately. Before I cross the provisions of the Criminal Code - which will be very brief, because the Minister will be detailed - I made a reference and will repeat it. The Greek society passed through fire and iron after 2009 in austerity programs and restrictive policies. That is where we understood that there were restrictions and democracy, I would say. I said before that the big question then was what democracy is and how it is won. I said before - and I address the members of the committees, our respected teachers - that today, after the memoranda, after the restrictive policies, after these austerity programmes, I think the irreversible question we have to answer citizens, politicians and scientists is: what is justice in these circumstances and how is it being awarded. I would remind you that the leading intellectuals of our time, such as Chomsky, Hambermas, Kastoriadis, Bauman, Bandiu, Mark Ross, had formulated, almost confidently, that when a society is compressing unbearablely and constantly with programmes of restrictive policies, particularly in the field of the economy, it is certain - it is true - that the financial system and its principles are fully imposed on politics and legal science, while they have doubts whether the justice system is being preserved and, in particular, the system of awarding criminal justice. And we must remember, ladies and gentlemen, excellent teachers, what justice is. We remember that justice is perhaps the most critical of all the manifestations of social life, because it is the ultimate objective, the final good as the Latins, the summum bonus, the political and social organization, both in the form of social justice and that of individuality, which is one of the social conditions. Otherwise, the different treatment of individuals will in fact introduce political and social discrimination. That is why all political and social rights without the existence of justice remain empty. This is why it is a common place that justice is a prerequisite, but also an objective, at the same time, to achieve and maintain social cohesion, which is now mainly divided for economic reasons and through austerity programmes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Mr President, I would very briefly remind you of the choice of a Chief of Staff - who wants to appear as an aspiring Prime Minister - to make a terrible statement the other day and I want to address it. Mrs Christodoulou told the committee yesterday. Here's how he justified his party's not coming to the House to discuss the two codes for these reasons I've developed before. Listen to what the Chief of Officership and Prime Minister said: "We will not enter the forehead of a delegated parliament, which...", please be careful! “...open only for arrangements. Make them on their own, without us." This is the sense of responsibility held by the Chief of Officerial Representation and by the Party of Officerial Representation, which politically, legally and constitutionally has an institutional role and an institutional obligation, when such major, innovative, informative legislative initiatives come in, to be present in the House and to give the struggle either to accept or to amend what is not right in their view. A unprecedented statement for Chief of Officership and aspiring Prime Minister and regretting me unbearablely. Is the House today delegated because SYRIZA was defeated in the European elections? Is that an argument that a Chief of Staff can use at legal and political level? How is it decentralized? Should the House be closed before elections were called? Let them answer us. Especially today - it concerns the second part of Mr Mitsotakis' statement - the House meets on the subject of codes and it identifies - it says, in his view, with some sort of arrangement. Is that how Mr Mitsotakis and New Democracy perceived it? Does this serious debate with a huge scientific work by the members of the legislators characterise it as a simple arrangement? I think that this is not the proper respect either for the members of the legislators or for their scientific work, nor for the fact that we have alongside us the 'foot' of legal thought in our country - and we must be proud of it - nor is it politically right to identify the debate and vote for the codes as a simple, credential-type arrangement. I think it's a catastrophic thing. Mr President, I should also like to say something about the code, the criminal law. Criminal law is one of the most vibrant branches of law. Its object is crime, which is a marginal phenomenon of social life, linked to human passions, tensions and insurmountable dilemmas. Criminal law highlights the concept of obedience and the importance of individual freedoms. It preserves the value of man and the principles of the rule of law. It communicates with wonderful concepts that promote culture, recalls the importance of sobriety, instead of market reaction - I proved it before - and aims to bring about suicidal justice in a spirit of democracy. And I add - I read this from texts from our eminent guests to our left - that all this must be done on the basis of the man of the Platonic Championship: 'every man's money'. Mr President, I do not want to get into the rules. I'll tell the Minister. I don't know if you're ready to say it, Minister. I could say the changes it has made since the consultation and it is very important. But I close with an important issue that concerns me very seriously and I would like to look at him in the eye, but Mr Katsikis is not here. It was unthinkable to me that today, in discussing the vote on these two codes - which is a work of liberal perception, a democratic principle - he came to tell us that the abolition of Article 198, on malicious blasphemy, disturbs the democratic community. And it's legal, Mr. Katsikis, and I'd say harder words if he were here toward me. I don't want to say it when it's absent. But I must tell him that blasphemy as a criminal offence does not exist in any legal order of the European Community. And I would say that there are in very few parts of the world, where fundamentalism has imposed on weapons and sovereignty the view that religion is the basis of the state. Such a thing cannot fit into a Greek legal order and constitutional principle, because for us the basis of the constitution is popular sovereignty. It's called the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Colleague, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, don't worry. I'm the last speaker. Yesterday on the issue of the abolition of the malicious blasphemy offence - I address the teachers - in this book of the Greek Union for Human Rights - what I am holding is the old, two - three years I think it is the new one - is described as God does not need a prosecutor. This booklet is all about the Article 198 case of malicious blasphemy. It mentions all the incidents in which Greek justice took decisions that I call them "greys", "blacks" pages of Greek justice, who condemned people for their artistic creations. Not to mention the "Last Piracy" of Kazantzakis, not to mention the "Last Piracy" of Scorse that was banned by the prosecutor by his order, not to mention the other artistic work that I disagree and to tell you - but is an artistic creation - not to tell you about the operation of Golden Dawn in a theater that wanted to abolish and the prosecutor came and made a ban. When? In the twenty-first century in a country in which democracy was born and we gave the lights. We gave everyone the lights and we removed our lights. I only invoke a phrase from this book, because it really is incomprehensible to me by a legal person, of legal thought, to come here, to the Greek Parliament, and to say that this legal code with the proposal he makes, by the Legislative Committee, insults the democratic community because its base - he says - is feeling! He calls that a man of legal science! I told you before what it means to legal science, what it means to legal thought, what it means to legal account and dogma. I shall read from this booklet and close, Mr President. But before I read it to be a conclusion, I would like to say that yesterday he tried to interfere in our legislative function and a metropolitan saying something that will actually be written in the lists of legal and constitutional history. It goes without saying: 'With the abolition of the provisions, social cohesion will break' - that is, if malicious blasphemy is removed, social cohesion will be disrupted - 'when each of us begins to exalt the religion of his fellow citizens, so threaten it' - hear it and hold it! - 'the democratic stability of the country'. Can we talk about an exaggeration? Can we talk about incomprehensible metropolitan arguments that he's ministering to a Metropolis? In the same post yesterday of the newspaper, commenting on this, he mentions of a highly religious university professor who had said of blasphemy that God does not need the public prosecutor's support to confirm his presence and he cannot, of course, be regarded as a legitimate good, since God, according to our religion, is the beginning and end of all the legal goods. I mean, that's not even what the metropolitan should know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Colleague, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, I shall conclude. The most popular we would say today that the one who curses the god, the metropolitan and Mr Katsikis want to go to prison. I answer them this: hell should she go to prison, no! Mr President, I am closing with just one paragraph. Freedom of expression, says the European Court of Human Rights, is inherent in democracy and enjoys special protection even when the reason expressed is affected and provoked. According to the classic wording of the historical judgment of the European Court of Justice ‘Handyside’ against the United Kingdom, freedom of expression includes not only information and ideas that are well accepted and considered neutral or indifferent, but also those which insult, shock and upset the state or a number of population. Pluralism and the general spirit, without which there can be no democratic society.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Lappa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all my fellow Members with whom we worked for four years in Parliament's committees, where we have been given the opportunity not only to function as Members of Parliament but also to continue to deal with legal issues, legal matters and legal matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u79	Mr Paradise has the floor for a brief speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u80	If I may, a short second, Mr President. Previously I went out in the hallway for a while and one of my present students, I will name him why all I love the same, he said, "Teacher, do you realize that we have a Criminal Code of every century?" In 1835 criminal law, 1950 Criminal Code, and today is another. It doesn't count the illusion of crime. It's a rough, incomplete piece of revolution right now. History, in other words, tells us that most likely is that our next Criminal Code will have it in the 22nd century. Most likely that is. This should make us aware of the burden of this legislation. I think that those of us who are in this Chamber and have not left are aware of it. I would like to make a small correction to what I said, one supplement, if you like. Under the pressure of various complaints or, I think, of mistaken criticism that here a piece of legislation is being pushed forward because it reflects the positions of the SYRIZA Government and so on, and I, like many other speakers, said that this piece of legislation is primarily a committee's scientific work and it is not the SYRIZA's work, it is a government's work. I blamed the government. I must say, however, that the government and the party, which has the majority, has had the following important role: it was a guarantee of independence and dialogue during the legislative committee's procedures. I'm not saying that this government alone kept independence. And the previous ones did it, but she did it too. Although power is tending to abuse, it has kept and protected the legislature from any interventions which would be outside the scientific logic and, in any case, the important function which we have here to perform. Of course, I have heard a lot of theoretically interesting issues. I have the temptation to say what is law. I heard what we discussed earlier. I remember Aristotle, who said that 'the law is just what'. In short, Stagiritis said it all. He saw something that is involved in the law, but he does not exhaust it. That defines the way we work. Aristotle, mainly as a complement, was viewed in law as due diligence, but in any case, he showed that he perceived the importance of legislation and the fact that this does not exhaust the law. Apart from the point of order, I just want to say two things to finish. It has been explained here that what is being voted on is a new backbone of Criminal Law, a new one brought a skeleton, which will probably be subject to individual articles - reforms in the future. Legislation always has a liquidity. And I say 'flying skeleton', not foundations, because the foundations are the same, what we have said. It is the rule of law, it is the principle of guilt, the principle of proportionality. The same are the foundations of what we previously had. What really changes here is the setting up of a legal structure on these foundations in such a way that it reflects both modern development and social needs and history as they have evolved. If I insisted - and you like me retrospectively on this - on torture and yesterday on the committee, and today before the House, it was only for this reason, because this matter is being referred back to the House, I would not say, as being inappropriate, but, in any case, it is simple. It's a legal intervention, but it's about the foundations, I'd say, beyond the skeleton bearing. The foundations are all about. The act of torture is an act which affects human self-determination, it does not allow the citizen to be either a cell of democracy or a cell of the rule of law. This important issue I think the Greek people should show today, through the House which represents it, that they realize it and place it where it belongs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Paradoxopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, twenty-two students and students and three teachers attending from the 13th Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Kalogerou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, Mr President of the House, when he asks for it, then many things lose their value. Today and all these days, the constitutional preamble has been called into question. Today's legislature is the best answer. A given is never a question. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would like to say that, in fact, following the due remarks made by Nikos Paradopoulos, it is important that this parliamentary group, this government, this legislative committee, which actually has this presumption in relation to its scientific training, in the way it approaches the issues, in the way it tries to resolve its internal disputes, is ultimately important - and this is institutionally important - that you are the specific members of the legislature, we are the specific government and Parliamentary group that managed to do what was not done in all these decades. So today we have the honour today and I personally have two key codes for our criminal law, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. We know that both the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure entered into force on 1 January 1951 and have now completed seventy years of life. Despite the fact that their core is the Romance spiritual work of individuals, such as Horaphas, Georgepoulou, Buropoulos, the need to replace them with a legislative effort that would yield the younger social needs came about ten years ago. The persons who worked for this purpose were many and almost all the important theorists of the Criminal Law in our country. Among these are special references to the one who worked with particular passion and morality, to the late Professor Ioannis Manoledakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the basis of every attempt to establish a criminal system in a modern democratic society is the view of the Criminal Law as a measure of protection of legal goods, but at the same time as a measure of citizens' freedom, since the criminal rule, describing the criminal act, sets the limit between the banned on social activity and the permitted criminal justice suppression of this activity. Above all, however, the Criminal Code, the criminal rule in a liberal democratic society, does not have the task of establishing a general, abstract, an indefinite ban or a general acquisition of certain conduct. The criminal rule prejudges a specific description of behaviour that the legal order evaluates negatively and threatens this similar penalty. Therefore, a liberal criminal law, as in principle Greek Criminal law, is more based on facilitating the free development of the social and economic life of citizens than on the consolidation of security. In other words, freedom and security are indeed basic social goods, but freedom is ultimately the precondition of any manifestation of our social life. The basic principles respected by this Criminal Code are, among other things, the principle of the rule of law, the principle of legitimacy, the principle of the protection of human value, the principle of guilt, the principle of proportionality, the democratic principle, the principle of personal autonomy, the liberal principle, the principle of equality of the social state and, of course, the principle of subsidiarity. Basic new arrangements that could be streamlined from the proposed text of the new Criminal Code and their relationship with the above values are in the following section: It is settled that the most important law is in any case applicable, even if it is resulting from a specific provision, without the law providing for it to be more comprehensive and more specific. The notion of persons concerned is widened so that the members of the so-called social family are included now, not only the one that comes from marriage. It is commonly abrogated that the existence of a constant torque in the execution of a crime is considered to lead to a reduction and not to an increase in penalty payments. It is recognised that in some cases the judge may impose a reduced penalty on the crime committed by omission. The pitfalls that have so much troubled the citizens without offering the counter-criminal work, and the behaviour involved, will now only be taken into account by the forecasts for the imposition of administrative sanctions. I'm opening a parentheses on this. What do we have to do with what we were unable to do today and yesterday in these debates? From now on, we must explain to the citizens what their next day is in the chambers of the criminal courts, whether they are accused of being politically accused or witnessed. The same is true of the daily life of the judge and of the daily life of the lawyer, but also of the profession of the academic community on the basis of the new data. This is the big bet of this code. The big bet now starts and will be won in the app. It is therefore part of the Criminal Code as an autonomous reason to remove the so-called 'tragic moral dilemma'. The Prefecture Committees, in the four years since they began and with the decision of Nikos Parakalos and then Stavros Kontonis, and in the end with me, have tried to resolve, in my opinion, in a very good scientific way, the issues which had been raised and which had been accumulated in case-law, the theory, taking specific positions. I know that those who are following us and above all the scientific community, but also the judges, may have different opinions. But what is happening today is a successful attempt to bring together all the scientific views, all those that have been ahead of us all the previous years. Improve the description of the execution authority's content in the attempted crime. This should have begun to take place some part of the objective nature of the crime, while abolishing the so-called 'inappropriate attempt' following the observation I made before. The distinction of a direct and simple accomplice is abolished. It is, of course, foreseen that the court should be able to impose a penalty on the responsible, what was previously considered a mere synergy. At the level of criminal sanctions, the main change consists of a balanced overall restructuring of penalties with a reduction in the threats of punishment, either directly or through the conversion of felonies into offences with exceptions and at the same time with predictions of even defective penalties. Furthermore, the provision of social work to avoid the consequences of incarceration as a major penalty is added. The upper limit of the silencing penalty shall be reduced by approaching European standards. The penalty shall be imposed with particular consideration of the financial capacity of the convicted person and his family and shall be paid in instalments. The institution of suspension of execution of the sentence, which is now provided for for for sentences of up to three years, shall be modernised, and the conversion of the sentence into cash shall be abolished. Restriction and modernisation of subsequent penalties are being restricted and modernised. There is significant improvements in the penalty measure and in the light of the light of the circumstances, since other elements that the judge must take into account are added to the fact that he has to take into account in order to impose the final penalty, such as, for example, there is no need for the search for a generally honest life, but for the crisis not to leave to what I say 'a rating approach', but also to make use of an objective size, namely that the perpetrator has not committed any other crimes in the past. The confiscation institution shall also be strengthened, providing that, if the confiscation is not found, confiscation may be imposed on other property of the perpetrator or replaced by a penalty, and that confiscation of the property of a third party, to which the confiscation of the confiscation is transferred with a view to avoiding his confiscation in the hands of the perpetrator. The concept of young adults is increasing at the age of twenty-five. I'm closing up in relation to the General Party. I bet the administration too, bet the state, especially in relation to the provision of social work, is how it will be implemented, how it will be strengthened, how these structures will be served, how local government and other social welfare organizations will function. The Special Party abolishes a series of crimes that do not contain any real injustice, such as malicious blasphemy, or which describe behaviours with low indifference that can be dealt with by other means, such as administrative sanctions. The provisions and full funds, such as military service crimes, are being abolished, on the basis that they do not meet in any modern European code. The criminal offence regarding modern payment instruments is being widened. A clearer description of crimes against transport, telecommunications and other public utilities is being attempted. There are arrangements for common risk crimes, such as forest arson. There are stunning cases with a sentence of at least 10 years of imprisonment when these have led to death or even life imprisonment when they have caused more deaths. It should be stressed separately that, in general, crimes of abstract risk are not involved, but only in terms of potential and specific. Articles on human trafficking and trafficking are consolidated, since freedom is commonly insulted. In relation to economic crime, a structural change has been chosen, the matching of public property with what applies to it in other areas of law and the protection of private property of the public as such. In addition, there are provisions for the provision of felonies even when the private property is affected against acts of infidelity on the basis of the amount of damage or the amount of bribery operations in the private sector. Finally, specific provisions for the formation of felonies were added for the deletion of Law 1608/1950, the famous law on public abuses with a special provision for longer limitation periods. A little attention to all of this. It is easy to say, and it was obviously one of the reasons why there were fears and previous political leaderships of the Ministry of Justice, which we all agreed that the law on public abuses had to be abolished and a new system, a new legal framework to deal with the issues of public property, the distinction between private property and private property, which could hit the pending cases, in fact in a context of criminal populism that could create any political honesty or non-truthful dialogue. This has been overcome by this legislative initiative by this government, and you will not allow and we will not allow anyone to create any destructive term in relation to the new regulations, which are clear and - in my opinion - sufficient to cover these criminal phenomena. In the field of corruption, such as corruption and corruption, the respective acts have approached the levels of penalties in other European countries, and many cases have also been maintained on the basis of whether the act is contrary to the duties or whether it is carried out as a felony. It is pointed out that the crime of money laundering from criminal activity, what is termed 'placing' otherwise, presupposes the existence of a basic crime from which illegal revenue is derived, but may lead to a penalty even if it has been filed. Here it is worth registering in the Minutes, so that it can perform interpretatively to the courts and lawyers in the cases to be judged, the mention that in the new Criminal Code all forms of corruption or broader corruption are dealt with in accordance with the standards and obligations that Greece has undertaken. We have to make it clear that the relevant provisions are structured systematically in the respective chapters of the Special Party. The penalties at stake are escalating according to the merits of the conduct in question, so that they are both proportionate and effective. Thus, the bribery of political persons in Articles 159 and 159A and judges in Article 237 are punished as a felony in both forms, active and passive bribery of a member of staff, as a felony when the bribe violates his duties and as a flood when he is bribed to take legal action. A similar distinction shall also be made for the member of staff who is active in bribery, depending on whether his act relates to legal or illegal action by the staff member. In addition to classical bribery, the new code is automatically punished for trading influence, but also for bribery in the private sector, which is housed in Article 396. In addition, provisions relating to corruption are complemented in the new Code by a wide list of leniency measures, providing strong incentives and protection for those who reveal corruption practices. Joining 1608 has rightly been criticised as systematic and dogmatically unstable and has caused many interpretative problems in court practice. The damage to the property of the public can only come from any illegal service, in which the bribe will take over and, of course, the latter will constitute other self-criminal acts, such as infidelity, fraud, false attestation and forgery, which are punishable as felonies in the new code, if the benefit exceeds EUR 120,000. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, because we have two plans and because I was not at the beginning but on the point of order, I will take some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u83	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u84	The wide-ranging criminalisation of bribery in the private sector, in accordance with Article 396 of the new Criminal Code and Article 237 of the existing Code, renders the clerk's falsely expanded concept in the current Article 263. Indeed, the person who has been financed and punished as an employee against the plasma of law under the existing 263A will be punished as a perpetrator of passive bribery in the private sector, to which he belongs. This last observation can also resolve issues of time-consuming law in pending cases. In other words, acts which cease to be regarded as being bribery for a staff member, in accordance with Article 235 of the Code of Conduct in force, shall not become retroactively outlawed, but fall within the scope of Article 237B of the applicable or Article 396 of the new Criminal Code. The laws on money laundering may, therefore, be applicable where the other conditions of the applicable provisions are met. These are time-consuming observations from the committee which I have read out self-sufficiently in order to be properly and specifically registered in the Minutes of the House. Now I will try to shorten although I wanted to have the opportunity to talk more about specific articles. However, we have to say that it has dealt very much with public opinion over the last few hours, but also before, the issue of the 336 provision on rape, as a social demand, a social debate outside this Chamber, in my opinion, is a wrong debate on the titles we have heard today on the fact that rape is being committed. That's not the case. The provision of provision, the provisions of Article 336, was the proposal of the Legislative Committee, which had a firm legal direction. The presence of the Legislative Committee here today, which I really think is historic and honourable, has allowed the debate to take place even in this Chamber on this particular issue which has been created. Thus, with the agreement of the Legislative Committee and with legislative regulations, legislative improvements, which are purely legislative, the new provision will therefore be as follows: in paragraph 5 "Anyone, except in the case of paragraph 1, shall endeavour for a generation without the consent of the passive person, shall be punished by imprisonment as 10 years". We're done with this. I would ask that we really welcome the fact that the Legislative Committee with its firm opinion was even able at the last minute to hear what was happening in order to give a solution. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Legislative improvements have already been tabled, they are purely technical, beyond the acceptance of the two issues raised by the respected teacher of Law Nicos Paradise regarding change in the title "Special Legislations of Legislation". Where we have 'professional measures', we call it'sensitive measures' and, respectively, where we have'special measures of leniency', we call 'particularly favourable measures'. That is what I wanted to say in relation to the transfer of the torture article. We're done with the legislature. Now we're going to the Code of Criminal Procedure. The big bet, in my opinion, was what we said before, namely the daily life of the citizen, the security that the citizen can have in the criminal proceedings, the qualitative upgrading of the criminal trial, but also the speed - not the roughness - of the citizen really feels the security that he needs in the criminal trial and the feeling that he can be justified in the criminal trial. When? After eight years of an economic necklace. This economic loot almost ruined the citizen's relationship of trust both to justice and to politics. It is an appropriate timeframe, after all these years of implementation of the memorial policies that we know have also worked in the awarding of Criminal Law and in the provisions. We have followed eight years of memorial provisions of criminal law, which, in my opinion, must be reflected in a list of provisions of the right of the Memorandum of Understanding and to leave them behind forever. On this, then, the big bet on a new trial, I think, is extremely important to see the alternative ways, the criminal order, the abstention of criminal prosecution, the criminal conciliation and the criminal negotiation. I think these four institutions are the extremely important ones arising from the new texts of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This new Code of Criminal Procedure strengthens the role of the prosecutor, provides for enrichment of the criminal trial with evidence of the court's role in the examination of witnesses, but also with regard to the procedures for the alternative closure of the trial. The European trend towards enlargement of the abstention institution, as we said before, is being adopted by the criminal prosecution. The institutions to safeguard the impartiality of judicial persons are also strengthened, for example by providing for the exclusion of participation in the composition of the judiciary in the Mauritius of the Public Prosecutor who first contributed to the adoption of the judgment. The Minister of Justice is denied the possibility of ordering a preliminary examination and correct. Provisions for special prosecutors in the Code of Criminal Procedure are incorporated. Simplify the procedure for civil lawsuits. It is exempted from this matching, from this claim for compensation and is inextricably linked now and uniquely to the criminally interesting size of the category support. They shall be clarified, more clearly defined, the rights of the parties, the hearing, information, communication with third parties. The powers of the courts have been restructured, and this is very important. We all remember the debate that had prevailed in relation to the need for a single appeal, in relation to the felony. Because I think there has been criticism here and there has been a debate by all the stakeholders on the issue of the abolition of the monopolies, which will now regulate procedural issues relating, for example, to the ratification of the criminal negotiation, the structure of the entire Code of Criminal Procedure is such that it actually allows these procedures to be implemented. Criminal proceedings will be disintegrated in such a way that the only appeal is no longer necessary. Also, a very important demand for parties and lawyers and society for years has been the question of keeping practices with vocalisation and teleconferencing and videoconferencing in order to provide the state with the necessary legislative support for the further introduction of modern media into the criminal trial. Specific investigative acts have been adapted, legal requirements such as establishing a true and not a formal statement of reasons for their implementation. We have provided facilities for the recovery of the products from criminal activities in the logic of the return of the so-called "hidden" from the acts of economic crime or corruption. The provisions of legal proceedings are being modernised. An increased compensation and more than double for the unjustly detained has also been envisaged and the relevant procedure has been simplified. And I'm making a few more comments on the Code of Criminal Procedure. With regard to the criminal conciliation, it will be Article 301 et seq. of the new Code of Criminal Procedure. There are provisions for felonies to which Articles 216 and 242 may apply to crimes without violence or threats against property and property. This way, until the end of the interrogation, the defendant and the passion will be called to find the so-called conciliation through their lawyers. All procedures to be followed from thereon shall be detailed before the interrogation is completed and the interrogation is completed. On criminal matters, again, in cases of authoritarian prosecuted crimes, with the exception of those threatened with life sentences, we will have the opportunity here for the defendant to agree, to negotiate with the public prosecutor the penalty to be imposed on him. This will now be the only object, the most enforced principal or subsequent penalty. There are too many comments and I understand that the debate is becoming quite technical. I also understand that, throughout this work and all these articles, I could not be equivalent to recording today in this brief time in this process of quality and the size of this top reform. So, in this respect, be on duty with me today. I'm slowly finishing up. Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been shown by the two draft Criminal Codes, it has been chosen to vote in favour of the fact that despite any differences or disagreements on their individual points, the most important thing is that they achieve the aims of modernising our criminal law and its approach again after many decades of derogation from the original standards in Europe. As one will soon find in his report, these texts are primarily fruits of liberal conception in Criminal Law. They manage to combine modern demands to speed up the processes of a world that runs at very high speeds and safeguards citizens' rights towards criminal power. The way they do this is not with inspirations that they have on the inside, looking at a terrible international trend, but using the timeless relationship of our country's criminal theory with familiar spaces and schools thoughts of the European continent. It was therefore chosen, with a view to the strategic objective of introducing modern and at the same time humanitarian and legal legislation, to put them to a vote as codes by the Greek Parliament. SYRIZA as a left-wing party is constantly disgraceing the movements and needs of prisoners and people on the margins of the mechanisms of criminal power, but at the same time - and this is a two-way relationship, which should not be misunderstood and distorted by anyone - the need for a citizen's security is blaming, as it is known that legal guarantees have been put for everyone. Anyone can find themselves against the criminal repression that is sometimes beginning and on the initiative of the state organs who do not do their job well or who are mistaken in the way they do it, perhaps because they are trying to exercise it in adverse conditions. We can all be perpetrators and victims. It is therefore a circumstance to draw this conclusion. SYRIZA, who has spent all this time as a disincentive to institutional perception and reform initiatives, is ultimately the one who takes the burden of making areas of high social interest and depth without accounting for political costs or hiding from problems. And it does this, oriented towards European justice and European standards, constantly demonstrating that the conflicts that have emerged in the European area have been for more justice in the functioning of the institutions and the coexistence of the peoples on our continent. SYRIZA, who is taking every opportunity to devalue justice, is trying to take over those areas that will bring justice out of the stagnation and endless time of all that has been put into practice for so many years. It is this government that, although it is denounced every minute as the government of populists, is trying to give this legislature a powerful blow to the logic of criminal populism. With regard to what the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the SYRIZA Government were accused of with regard to justice matters and how the parliamentary group responded to the demands of justice and the procedural issues arising from the introduction into Parliament of criminal documents, notably, in relation to the involvement of political parties, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group maintained both the parliamentary order and the Constitution. For all that has been heard and all that has been written in relation to this behaviour, the last clear answer at the moment is the specific new Criminal Code and the new Code of Criminal Procedure. It is important to abolish Law 1608/1950. For those who have been spreading over the past few days that SYRIZA is in Parliament, because it deals with issues that have to do with his own governance, I would like to remind you of the explanatory statement of the dragon and so ineffectively Ν.1608/1950, which is a good example of the fact that the right party in Greece over time was dominated by "fake news" and propaganda, since that is where corruption is being fought because of a gold smuggling scandal, which was charged to communists. The answer is, of course, the prestige of the people of the committee, their well-known independence with regard to each party in society, the length of their work, which is over ten years, the consultation from which has become a climate of consensus. There was a climate of consensus until the day before, where the parties of the New Democracy and the Change Movement decided to change their attitude - with certain exceptions, of course, as we saw a leading exception today by Mr Vangelis Venizelos - and to distance themselves, as I said in the morning, from whatever relationship they would like - I mean, at the level of communication, because you know that communication is very important at the time we live - in terms of these codes. That is what has deprived us of a climate of consensus on the technical issues that could deal with these two codes. Therefore, faithful to the deposit of the legislation which provides for the entry into force on 1 July and the fact that it is good to avoid too long periods of time between voting time and the start time, and in order not to disturb trials which can last this whole period, even in four months, were chosen on 1 July. It's the start date of the Summer Sections. For the record, we all understand that our judges are closed. There will also be, in the face of the national elections of 7 July, the necessary time for all those involved in criminal proceedings to take - let me say - their measures. So I think that a safe corridor is being created in relation to how these two codes are implemented and implemented. So Immediately after their statement they found a pretext to abstain from this procedure. The reason is clear and I repeat it. They do not want to accept the political cost of the necessary reforms in the field of their anti-crime policy and could not be opposed. We were trying to think with the members of the Legislative Committee - I conclude with this, and I thank you, Mr President, and also the House for your tolerance in time - how this day would be, how it could be a day for the new Criminal Codes to be voted on. The answer is that this would somehow be the way those who dared to do it would be present, those who did not dare all the years before do all the drafts of Criminal Codes that have been left in ministerial drawers for years. That's what it would have been like. In your presence you have also felt - and I address the members of the legislature - what you lacked in the image of your work. There is this painful process within Parliament, this absolute democratic process, the democratic demand, as you have even heard at the last minute, in order for you to see, listen and even make specific decisions at the last minute. This has been an experience as long as you stand out of it and are discussing the so-called will of the legislator or you see some mistakes that you do not understand how they have arisen in the legislature. That's what it's like, and that's how it's solved. But that is what has been done today. It is the one that has finally allowed us to move on with this reform. So it could not be the question that I asked it to be different. The Left always writes history because it has no selfishness and has no special purpose in writing history, so it writes it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm also making the legislative improvements to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty-eight students and apprentices and six educational sessions, from the 6th Cardits Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And now we're going to have a little interruption until the services respond to the end of the documentaries they have to prepare.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I will give the floor to the Minister to give some further clarification on the legislative improvements, because he hadn't been able to do so before. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Legislative improvements were tabled both in the draft of the Criminal Code and in the Code of Criminal Procedure. As I said during the last placement, they are purely legal in relation to orthographic errors, lyrics, parties, etc. in addition to the two substantive improvements. One concerned the fifth paragraph of Article 336 in relation to rape. The other two concerned the transfer of the provision of the article of torture. These two legislative improvements bring together - both to be recorded in the Minutes - related amendments to both the rapporteur's reports, in the explanatory memorandum to the two codes. I'm saying it's in the Minutes. Secondly, for reasons of history and also for it to remain in the Minutes, I would like, along with all the thanks I have mentioned since the morning, to thank the partner and friend Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Georgios Charlis, without whom we could not have completed this very great effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u88	We thank the Minister for his clarification of the legislative improvements. The debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is closed: "Structuring the Criminal Code". Does this House accept the bill at first instance? SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u89	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u90	The New Democracy, the Democratic Alliance, the Golden Dawn and the Communist Party of Greece are absent. The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u91	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u92	The draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, therefore, was unanimously accepted. Will this House be able to accept Rule 1 as amended? SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u93	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u94	The New Democracy, the Democratic Alliance, the Golden Dawn and the Communist Party of Greece are absent. The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u95	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u96	The first paragraph, as amended, was therefore accepted. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted? SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u97	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u98	The New Democracy, the Democratic Alliance, the Golden Dawn and the Communist Party of Greece are absent. The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u99	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u100	The latent article was unanimously accepted. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Definition of the Criminal Code" was accepted at the outset and on the articles unanimously. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole? SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u102	The New Democracy, the Democratic Alliance, the Golden Dawn and the Communist Party of Greece are absent. The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u104	The draft law was also accepted in the whole unanimously. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Strengthening the Criminal Code" was unanimously accepted, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u105	The debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is adjourned: "Following the Code of Criminal Procedure". Does this House accept the bill at first instance? SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u107	The New Democracy, the Democratic Alliance, the Golden Dawn and the Communist Party of Greece are absent. The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u109	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Following the Code of Criminal Procedure" was accepted in principle unanimously. Will this House be able to accept Rule 1 as amended? SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u111	The New Democracy, the Democratic Alliance, the Golden Dawn and the Communist Party of Greece are absent. The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u112	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u113	The first paragraph, as amended, was therefore accepted. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted? SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u115	The New Democracy, the Democratic Alliance, the Golden Dawn and the Communist Party of Greece are absent. The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u117	The latent article was unanimously accepted. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Following the Code of Criminal Procedure" was accepted in principle and in the articles unanimously. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole? SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u119	The New Democracy, the Democratic Alliance, the Golden Dawn and the Communist Party of Greece are absent. The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u121	The bill was also accepted in the whole unanimously. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Following the Code of Criminal Procedure’ was unanimously accepted, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u123	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-06-S1-commons.u124	With the consent of the House at 15.17' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, June 7, 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, legislative work: only debate and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Standardization of the individual contracts for the V and V1 Projects of 06-09-2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation "Stavros S. Niarchos" and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of infrastructure in the field of health."
