ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS First, let me tell the House on Monday 11 November 2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 182/5-11-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Employment of Retired Seamen at the Academy of Merchant Navy". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 176/5-11-2019 of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The delay in the announcement of the results of the introduction and entry into the higher education of the candidates with serious illness." B. PERSONS Second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1775-11-2019 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The problems in the facilities of the National Sport Centre (ESC) Larissa." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Following sections of the General School (GEL) in the Regional Unit of Kilkis." 3. The question by No 179/5-11-2019 that was raised by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelli, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The serious deficiencies and the situation in the Special Schools complex in Aigaleo." 4. The question by number 164/1-11-2019 of the Member of the Eleas of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The single rules for the treatment of borrowers. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 916/25-9-2019 by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Registrations and transfer of students to the 1st PES Sparta". Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the debate on the topical and urgent questions of today's issue. The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing: ‘We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Friday 8 November 2019 that it is impossible to present them: Mr Christos Stakoura, Minister for Economic Affairs, addressed by No. It is a matter for the European Parliament and the Council to take account of the situation in the former Yugoslavia and the situation in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the situation in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The topical and urgent questions to be discussed are as follows: No. No. Question No 173/5-11-2019 by Mrs Larive and others, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina. No. No. Question No 537/6-9-2019 - pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure - will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis. No. No. 171/5-11-2019 topical question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection Mr. Georgios Koumoutsakos. No. No. Question No 1107/4-10-2019 - pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure - will be answered by the Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Apostolos Vessiropoulos. No. No. 172/25/11-2019 topical question will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection Mr. Eleftherios Economou. No. No. Question No 175/11-2019 and Question No 175/11-2019 Question No 792/20-9-2019 — pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure — will be answered by the Secretary of State for Health Mr Vassiliou Kontozamanis. The numbers. 168/4-11-2019 and 174/5-11-2019 topical questions will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Gerasmos Thomas. No. No. 183/5-11-2019 topical question will be answered by the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister, Mr Stylianos Petsa." In addition, the question asked by the Member of the Ilias of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance on the subject: ‘The uniform rules for the treatment of borrowers will be incorporated after consultation in the topical and urgent question sheet of Monday 11 November 2019.’. So we begin the debate with the fourth No 173/5-11-2019 topical question of the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Lack of transport connection between the Municipality of Agios Anargyros and the fixed track networks". The question will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Konstantinos Ah. Karamanlis. Mr. Criton Arsenis has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you know, they've got cold! I see you a little summer. They've got cold out now. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much. It's not too cold in this House. Minister, thank you very much for being here and coming in person to answer the question of a very important issue. The Municipality of Athon Anargyro - Kamaterou has a very incomplete transport connection. In fact, it is not only that residents do not have access to the metropolitan centre of Athens, but do not have the inhabitants of the rest of Attica access to the Metropolitan Park Tritsis, a very important lung of life, despite its problems particularly in the summer. The problem is that with a relatively recent decision on 13 September, the last connection to the subway bus at Attica was suspended. There is a suburban that operates on very thin routes. He does work, but really for a few people who can take advantage of him because of the sparse routes. At the same time, the necessary connection between the area and metro has not been announced. I know that after the timely question was tabled, a decision was made by the OSCE to extend the line to the Attica subway. But I also want your own personal commitment that this decision will apply, that it will reach the Senate, which is the border of the city. And I want a commitment of your own on what is going to happen with the subway in this particular area. It is a very specific area with metropolitan infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u4	Dear Mr Colleague, I think we will all agree that all of us who are in public affairs are the best service to the passenger. Unfortunately, the problem is found in the fact that we as a government have been called upon to serve this principle at the very first moment, but we have been faced with enormous problems that we have found in the field of public transport. And here, if you're kind enough, you'll allow me before I go to this particular subject to make a very brief reference to what we've received. Because I think it is good to know what we have received, but to say what we are going to do and how we can fix things. We have therefore received urban transport where ticket prices have been increased, the bus fleet has been drastically reduced and the quality of the services provided has been downgraded. And let me give you some numbers. OSCE - which is the parent company - had in 2014 revenues from tickets of EUR 250 million without the State subsidy of another 100. OSCE in 2018 had 156 million tickets and the state subsidy, i.e. the money paid by all Greek taxpayers, was launched at EUR 197 million. I think that only these figures prove the complete slap in urban transport. So this is the situation we have received. Having always thought, then, that we are talking about the daily lives of thousands of citizens, who should always be treated with respect, OSCE, dear fellow Member, had no choice but to proceed to a restructuring plan for the network. In other words, he took into account all the functional elements of the lines, namely routes, routes, vehicles, passenger traffic, and made a necessary redesign, which - I agree with you - has created a number of problems, which we are here to fix. I will present to you, in the Minutes, a detailed table on which you will see the situation we have received and explain why we are restructuring the routes. Because 3% of the buses had a frequency of up to 10 minutes and the rationalisation that the OSCE is trying to make, we take it to 8% to 20%. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Your tolerance - if I may - Mr President. As you quite rightly pointed out - to go to the specific question - the C10 line was indeed examined - which was renamed 720 - and turned into a power line from the 'Netherlands Patisian' power station. However, I would like to inform you that since 14 October, the OSCE services have been monitoring the operation of this line, as well as the others that took place in the redesign, and has recorded - which has never been done - all the views and suggestions of the municipalities and the passenger. The result was - after finding the need for the passenger public - to modify this line and extend to the Attica station. It will end up at a subway station and a power station. This design was selected after dialogue with the Municipality of Agios Anargyra and is due to be implemented within the next period of time. I would therefore like to inform you that, in parallel to this, the OSCE is studying the extent to which it is also possible - what you are saying - to extend line 720 to the Seychelles. I'm not ready to answer that. I do not want to say anything that does not apply. I think it is understandable that the government's aim is to rationalise urban transport, but always on the basis of better service to the public. In my dentistry, if you will, I shall refer to the question you have asked about the subway.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Minister. I am pleased that you are verifying the texts which have come and our hands on the extension of the line to the Attica metro. It's very important. I would also like your commitment to Germany, because in fact the inhabitants of the region have the right to equal access to public infrastructure and to the metro infrastructure. Another central issue here is how thin these routes are. It is so sparse that a resident of the center of Athens or any other central city of Athens would ignore them, because he has become accustomed to normal routes. When you have half-hour routes and every forty-five minutes, for too many people who have become accustomed to a dense interconnection network this means no route, that there is no route. It is therefore necessary for the more than fifty thousand inhabitants of Saints Anargyra and Kamateros to give the same right to every citizen, every citizen of Attica and Athens. It takes a network that has frequent responses so that man can use it with dignity and with confidence that he will go to work while he needs it. So I also want you to look at this, to concentrate the route, to interconnect with Gerobon and I expect you to listen to your dentistry, I hope, your commitment to the metro in Saints Anargyros, which is necessary not only for the inhabitants of St. Anargyra, but also for Athens and Attica, as there we have metropolitan infrastructure, such as the Tritsis Park. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u7	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u8	We are fully aware, Mr Arsenis, that there is a problem with routes in many areas and, as I have said in my prototype, that is why redesign has been made, which makes sense to create turmoil. I told you what the frequency of the routes is. On most routes today passengers are waiting for up to 20 minutes. This is unacceptable and we fully understand that. But we have - listen - an old fleet, an extremely polluting fleet. The average age of the buses in Athens and Thessaloniki is very high, it is very high. So - and it will take place immediately - we must launch a competition, because the previous government tender, which was a genome, was not annulled by us, but by the Independent Refugee Authority. So the competent body, the OSH, must set up a new tender so that we can get new buses. We received eight hundred and fifty buses and trolleybuses on the streets, today we have a thousand percent, when we normally need more than a thousand five hundred. And we must finally get electricity and we will do this on the surface of the European Investment Bank in the new vehicles that we will receive. With regard to the metro, as I have said, I would like to make a point and say that I am sure you understand that things on the metro are placed in a longer-term dimension. As far as the metro is concerned, I would mention that the competent body of "ATIO MERO" has included in the project planning and extension of Line 2 in Illion, from the existing station of Anthuboli, with three new stations. This will achieve the approach in the Kamaterou area, with the station on Agios Nikolaos street. That is why, at this stage, the 'ATTIC MEETRO' has informed us that preliminary studies have been completed - we are, unfortunately, at a very early stage - and topographic, geological and geotechnical studies should be carried out in the next step so as to assign the project's pre-study. In other words, with this, I would like to make it clear that we are at an initial stage and also here to note that, apart from the extension of Line 2 to the Cameroon, the "ATTY METRO" also looks at the western expansion of Line 4, a line that has more maturity and which is being auctioned. I hope that this situation will be cleared up very soon. We also need to make provision for setting up the station in the Queen’s Park. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] But what we have to understand once is that we must not say things that have nothing to do with reality. And the reality, Mr Arseni, is that the metro projects are very difficult, time-consuming and expensive. I will tell you that a kilometre of metro costs more than EUR 100 million and must be done with very serious studies. And this is not only the case in Greece, but in the entire civilized world that has a subway. So it's planning to be extended, but at this stage I can't commit myself as the Minister of Infrastructure how long it will take, because we don't even have a premeditation stage yet. I will avoid the maliciousness that beats the political life of the country to come out and announce things that have nothing to do with reality. So there is planning, but at this stage no one can tell us what the exact timetable will be because, as I have explained, we are not even at the stage of premeditation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Now we will discuss the third question with number 537/6-9-2019 question of the circle of petitions - questions by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charalamboumou Mamoulakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "The planning of the government for the two ongoing competitions on the North Axis of Crete (BOAK)". The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis. Here, Mr Mamulaki, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm going straight to this question. You know the multi-faceted work, this great historical work, I would characterize, outstanding as a living artery in the country, after the completion of the Egnatia, Attica, Olympia, Ionian Road. The Minoan Road or, in any case, the North Road Crete - we learn from the press that it may be called Minoan Road - is a serious, truly, country-wide infrastructure, openness, possibly as an artery the largest remaining unfinished one. You know that the architecture of the previous government was governed by two main axes, the concession contract for the road Chania - Hersonissos and the Hersonissos - Neapolis with a private and public partnership, through PPP, and of course as a typical public project for the rest of the eastern part of the island. You also know that there is a ministerial decision from the prior administration of the Ministry of Infrastructure to determine the preferred functional design of the North Road Axis of Crete for the Chania - Neapolitan part. So I go into the essential part of the question that has four sections: First, do you intend to cancel the ongoing international competition for the concession contract of the BOAK side Chania - Hersonissos? Secondly, do you intend to cancel the ongoing international competition for the public-private sector of the BOAK Hersonissos - Naples? Thirdly, do you intend to proceed to the proclamation of the Naples-Saint Nikolaos project as a typical public project? Fourthly, what is the overall planning of the new government for the BOAK and what timetables - this is critical enough for everyone in Crete - are you looking forward to the completion of this long work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u11	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr President, I am amazed to see that SYRIZA has continued to support, you will allow me to say, a virtual picture that as a government has tried to create. Last week we had a question about the substituting of the nine and a half kilometer for Patras. Today we have the BOAK. In fact, in your question again, because you were not satisfied with my answer, the government, both the Prime Minister and I, in the programming statements, have mentioned it again, but also through parliamentary scrutiny on 9 August. But, if you insist, here is the temple of democracy, let's put things in a row. What, then, is the legacy of SYRIZA in the infamous and long - suffering work of BOAK? If we received something from your government is, in essence, a contest of interest. I repeat, a competition of interest for which there is no study maturity - we have some proletons - and no indicative content of the project. And not only did we not find, as I said before, maturity of studies, but we also have additional difficulties in the auctioning of this project as a single project. Why? Here is the decision of the previous leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which had done absolutely nothing for three and a half years. You planned a project providing for three completely different methods of tendering, as a public project, as a PPP and as a concession contract. So this has never been done in Greece or in the European Union. And not only that, in our view, is a 'yes', but I think there is a political courage, if you like, to abandon a new government for this work. In other words, we are talking about studying the maturity of the project - and that is not what we are saying, but about the entire technical world - and about the complete absence of a strategic study. Because for four and a half years no studies have been carried out capable of leading to environmental impact studies. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So you were four and a half years government and let me say that there was no improvement on the subject of the BOAK. You handed us a pencil on the map of Crete, which you call approval of engraving. So there's no drawing for BOAK, and you tell us BOAK's gonna pass this way. And you will allow me, if you will, and a little advice. It is good not to open this issue of the BOAK every three minutes, when we know what your past and your work are. Do not make, if you will, the mistakes made by other colleagues who in the previous question about the subordination of Patras said by a step of the House that they are tabling - listen! - an official document of the 'JASPERS', i.e. the technical advisers of the European Union, and presented in the SYRIZA Achaia press release. I mean, I'm sorry to say this, but sometimes we need to get serious. Because, you know, the writings stay. I understand we're all here in politics to play an impression game...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u14	I'm closing, Mr. President. So I will tell you that soon, by the end of the year, a government step will come down to Crete and not just to tell you how we will make the road, which we have said in the election, but we will also tell you what you have never told us, that is, where we will find funding. In my dentistry I will come back with the New Democracy's proposal on this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I was very interested to hear the Minister's position on his point of view as an immature situation on the northwestern axis in relation to the studies. I want to talk to evidence. We know that technical pre-studies have been completed - two numbers - the hydraulic study, the geological study and, of course, the environmental impact study. The competitions of the landmark and geotechnical research consultant are also under way. One of the two studies is cost-benefit, which is very critical for the overall formulation and monitoring of the project, the new road safety study and the study of archaeological documentation of course by the Ministry of Culture. And I will put a question clearly, Minister. You mentioned this phrase many times today - a new phrase -'molybdenum on the map of Crete'. Three months ago, four months ago, during the government's programming statements, you mentioned "a concept and a sketch". Is the engraving that will remain the same? The question is clear. There's a specific engraving and I'm talking in my capacity as a political engineer. Will you follow her? Because if you follow her, obviously neither sketch nor ideas are. It is clear on the table too. That is a reasonable question, and of course I also expect the answers to the Minister's second language about what he intends to do with the ongoing competitions. I understand from the context that he intends to cancel them. When we don't know. The days, weeks, months pass and, as he knows, he has already - in the eyes of leaks - announced in the previous period that he will come down to Crete to announce it. We have arrived in November and now I hear at the end of the year. In any case, there is a structural uncertainty and you realise that this question and the issue are of concern to everyone. I accept the criticism of the past. Although you must admit that during the last two years, 2017-2019, serious steps have been taken to develop the project and the result and outcome of this effort have been the two international competitions in progress. In addition, wonder is what happened in the previous forty years on the island. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u17	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, unfortunately I see that you continue to be exposed and, unfortunately, I will repeat and tell you what is the legacy we have received. Complete absence of a strategic study showing where the BOAK has to go through. So there's no carving. Nor are you telling us how to build or tell us what the geometric characteristics are. Full design clipboard. In 2018, the government argued that Kastelli - Kissamos - Chania cannot enter the BOAK. In 2018! Three years when you were government! And you've been giving up on us for three months? Three years later. You are now adding it to the supposed engraving you are doing, but you do not mention it in the financial models you proposed in 2018. Three sections from Chania to Agios Nikolaos with different methods of calling. You didn't answer me, where has this been done in Europe? Recent announcement a while ago, before you leave, to prepare a study. What studying maturity are you talking about? Let political fairy tales finally end. We had said opposition what we would do. Things are simple. The work should be done in two phases. It should have two main sections, but they should be examined by specific technical and economic studies. It is obvious that immediately the highway Chania - Agios Nikolaos will take place in the first phase. In second phase, Kissamos - Chania and Agios Nikolaos - Sitia with specific funding. And we have proposed a financial instrument called'sharing payments', which is a new type of concessions. In conclusion, however, I would like to make a regression because you have referred to - and you have rightly done so - the other roads. Can we tell the truth to the Cretan people once? Why hasn't the road been forty years? Do you know why? Because this work does not have easy funding. Because in this work the concession contract, which you as a concession contract propose to do, means tolls, as in the whole world. I'm going to go down to Crete and I'm going to reveal what you really meant, because you said you had a concession contract, but you said we wouldn't put tolls. This work has not been done for so many years because there has been no funding. So, before we say air words, the government, each government must say how it will be financed. We are at a phase of economic studies and very soon we will tell you exactly where the project will be financed, because, if we do not tell you where the project will be financed, we will simply have a controversy, we will say air words, we will talk about studies, we will talk about engraving, but eventually we will not talk about the major project and about the most serious thing, how will this project be financed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u20	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u21	Mr Colleague, there is no other way to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make some announcements to this House. MEP Ioannina Ms Maria - Alexandra Kefala requests a short-day absence abroad from 11 November 2019 to 15 November 2019 due to her participation in the European ‘ERASMUS’ programme for young Members in Brussels. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u22	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member, Mr Ioannis Paschalides, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad from 11 November 2019 until 15 November 2019 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u23	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the second with number 183/5-11-2019 topical question of the first cycle of MP B2 West Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas Kafantaris, to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, on the subject: "Development of ERT SA Radio Park. in the Municipality of Ilio’. The Deputy Minister will answer the Prime Minister, Mr. Stylianos Petsas. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u24	Good morning, Mr. President. Minister, the Radio Park in the Municipality of Ilios, "ERT S.A." is a serious historical site - and I will refer to it below - but, at the same time, it is a large, free space, around thirty-three thousand eighty-seven square meters, which is very important for the highly environmentally degraded western Athens. The use and enhancement of the history of this site are claimed by the inhabitants of western Athens and especially in the area of the Municipality of Ilio, as well as by the time and continuous demand of all municipal authorities since the 1990s and with particular, of course, interest from today's municipal authority. I should like to make a historical reference to this area and why this question is being asked. In 1938 a final agreement was signed between the Greek State and TELEFUNKEN, the known German company for the installation of the radio station and the transmission through the transmission of the centre in Liosia at that time. In 1941 the Germans occupy the facilities. In 1944 Greek technicians save the facilities. Here to note that TELEFUNKEN built three such transmitters and is the only transmitter, who still exists worldwide and is located in one of the buildings in this park. Finally, following successive changes of the Radio Emissions Agency, after EPP, etc. with L.4173/2013 we have the "ERT S.A." which is also the owner, owner of the area. I would like to mention that, with FEK B-991 of 1999, there is a decision by the Ministry of Culture which has historically preserved the facilities of the ERT and has been defined as a protection zone, the environment at the level of the plot, as a preserved industrial monument. So we come to today's decision to join the Programme for Public Development Studies, as there is an announcement by the former Minister for Digital Policy on July 2, 2018, for a direct announcement of the project. There is the approval of the Archaeological Council on November 5, 2018, where the site of the first transmitter, which I mentioned before, is a preserved monument of technology culture. There are competitions, three projects of the maturity of the project, signature of a contract of maturation studies, delivery of their maturation and integration studies in the main project in May 2019, a budget issue for the renovation of buildings and an environment of Radio Park around 1.4 million for inclusion in the Public Investment Programme in June 2019. Minister, it's a shame. These processes have gone ahead, the maturation studies have been delivered and have been paid and there is this particular design. We must immediately proceed to the procedures for the completion of the project and that is why I tabled this question. After the development studies have been delivered, as I have said, and the design, are you prepared to go ahead with the promotion of this historic area? Do you plan to continue the initial planning and financing of the project as a whole from the Public Investment Programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President, and I would also like to thank the honourable Member for giving me the opportunity to address an issue which, of course, is of interest to the West Athens, which has enormous potential for development. The facilities of ERT in Illion, where the first broadcasts of public radio were launched in 1938, have, as you said, been classified as a preserved industrial monument since 1999. With a view to the corporate development and control of ERT processes, the project "Aid for Cultural Infrastructure in Attica" was prepared to deposit in the AT041 call of the Attica, Priority Axis (06). Unfortunately, however, there was not proper coordination to provide for an adequate allocation of funding for the project and therefore no funding application was made. Finally, the project was submitted to the Public Investment Programme of the then Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information. After completion of the relevant permits and under the responsibility of ERT, the overall dossier and the tender documents of the project "Refurbishment Park of Radio Spectrum ERT" and "Creation of Multispace Culture and Recreation" were created. The proposal for the promotion of a cultural radio-broadcasting centre with the restoration of existing buildings and the configuration of the environment was budgeted to 1,8 to 2 million euros, and an indicative activity that could be developed was identified, since the maturation studies would indicate the relevant climatic programme. These activities concerned educational programmes and visits, a radio-broadcasting school for special population groups, for example students, a workshop of contemporary audiovisual media, exhibition space and digital representations, concerts and happynings in the environment, emblematic events in cooperation with the Tritsis Park, for example, a marathon of radio producers. In this context, the approval decision, under number 685, was issued by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, the project's approval decision under a budget of 74,4 thousand euros, was approved by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development. Following the approval of the repair and maintenance dossier of buildings and the establishment of ERT in Illion by the Local Council of Attica Monuments in November 2018 and the decision approving the work by the Office of Modern Monuments and Technical Works of Attica, the Department of Protection of New Monuments and Movable Cultural Goods by the Ministry on 17 January 2019. ERT received and controlled the delivery services of the three maturation studies, as well as the incorporation of the results of the environmental renewal study into the overall project and of the budget already prepared by the Directorate for Structural and Electromechanical Projects, which amounted to 1,4 million euros for the renovation and maintenance of buildings and the renewal of the environment. As regards the next phase of the project financing process, ERT must submit it to the ESRB managing authority or to a nationally funded programme in order to ensure the necessary funding. In view of the fact that this heading is only relevant to the fields described in the proposal, it is the responsibility of the new administration of the ERT to review the operational plan of the park, taking into account the estimated costs of its management, maintenance and operation, which will be borne by the ERT budget. The ERT must assess the appropriate integration of the project into a national or co-financed programme and consider partnerships with institutional bodies in the context of mutually beneficial synergies for the exploitation and exploitation of the site. As you know, ERT has independence in the exercise of its powers and in decision-making, so, as I have said since the first day of my taking office, I will let her do her job and will be judged by the result. The government's view is that the project can provide renovation and development prospects in the region. In this context, from the communication I have with my administration, ERT looks at the individual details combined with synergies that can be developed so that the project can function rewardably not only for itself, but also bring benefits to local society and the economy. So the answer to your timely question is first positive and we expect more specialization in the next few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u27	Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u28	I am pleased with the statement made by the Minister, who expresses the Government's willingness to go ahead with the emergence of this important historic site in the Radio Park in Illion, because historical memory must be maintained, especially during the times we are going through. In addition to the history of this place, where Greek patriots fought to save him in 1944, technicians at that time in radio speech in this area, there is the other important factor I mentioned before, i.e. the environmental issue, because it is a large, free space. We believe, therefore, that with the expression of will on the part of the government and since you are the political leader - I think - of the ERT as the State Secretary for State Affairs, your opinion on the promotion must be heard and we believe that this will be done, because you said it yourself - I had noted it - that all the studies and all the planning were carried out by the ERT Corporate Development and Control Department and, of course, by the then Ministry of Digital Governance and the Ministry of Economy. But I would like to say two or three things. Since the development studies - which I will mention now - have been completed, paid and we are at the final stage, let us not delay the continuation of these work, the design and promotion of the space on the ERT side. I believe that you, too, will help to move this forward since everything has been launched. Of the three maturation studies, the first includes green planning, functionality of the area with plantings, lighting and design of the park being formed. Also, here there is an amphitheatre oriented towards the center of the park, there are walkers' streets, placement of a rooftop alternators, and all of this will help to make exhibitions, bazaars and cultural events both from residents and operators, as well as from the Municipality of Ilio and, of course, from ERT. The second maturation study seeks to create a virtual museum. It is important that the virtual museum will provide free access to the public, its guard and projection of its material. New technology and multimedia will play a dominant role in ERT's digital archive approach. In general, we must say that we do not have a radio-broadcasting museum in Greece. The third maturation study is the operational plan covering all the actions to be undertaken in order to implement this structure and shall clearly specify important issues, aspects of the environment, how to implement and operate individual actions, necessary consortia, cooperation and synergies. I consider your answer to be important, Minister. I am not only expecting myself as a Member of the Western Section of Athens or are not only expecting the inhabitants of 2nd Athens. The municipalities are waiting for it, everyone expects it. You need to take these initiatives as you have expressed this desire to quickly shape the space, to show it. As you said, this is important for the region, because it will be in contact with the neighbouring Tritsis park, a large metropolitan park, and we expect the government to go ahead with the appointment of the new entity immediately - I am given the opportunity to say it - so that these two areas can function and be brought together, in addition to the history of the Radio Park, will be a breath for western Athens, for the surrounding municipalities, a breath for the environmentally downgraded Athens for decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u29	Minister, without knowing the subject - I am from Arcadia and I do not know - you will allow me to say that all things which do not have a recompense and cannot often fund the facilities, such as the Tritsis Park, are at the end. That is why, in my view, there must be actions which have a reciprocity with what we are creating. Thank you and apologies for the intervention. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, this is the government's positive will, to move on. All I would like to say is that twenty years after the designation of this region as a preserved industrial monument, it is time to make use of this space, not only to degrade it from its operational presence in relation to the operators of the region, the inhabitants, but also its history. It is time to give it to those who need it, as I said before, its importance for the ERT and its importance for the local society with the synergies that are needed. I look forward to ERT's suggestion on this issue and you can be sure that we will proceed very soon, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u31	Thank you. The second question will be discussed under No 172/11-2019 in the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Systemic repression against citizens who oppose mining in Epirus". The timely question by my colleague will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is a very important issue and I would expect the Minister to be here himself. It is about the flagrant violation of human rights. Things that we met in the crackdown on the Skouria movement where hundreds of people were persecuted to be acquitted after the courts, by para-state methods, now we see them starting in Epirus on the mining issue. On 28 October, on the anniversary of the Kalpakis battle and the representation of the battle - which, I am sure, was also financed this year by a mining company - the entry of people expelled from the room was banned and a journalist was not allowed to do his job. The others were citizens of Ioannina and Epirus. In particular, when a citizen was found at the event, he went a police officer with politics and asked her out, on the grounds that they had seen her the day before taking part in a protest. During the coverage of the demonstrations by the citizens against mining, the police attempted to extract material from a journalist-photographer, and in particular a police officer from the ICCU, the Crime Prevention and Suppression Team and demanded to see the photos of the incident from the journalist- photographer, grabbing it from the arm. During the attendance of a group of citizens to the event, the OPEC was banned from entering the field of the event. We are not talking about some violent citizens, but we are talking about 'Brussels', which you know what it is. They are women who dress traditionally and dance for the traditional dances of Epirus, that is, they were the least violent way of reacting. They simply expressed the "psycho" of the place and the reaction to mining. The question is clear: Is there a plan from the NSA and EASA to suppress the mining movement? Is there a plan for recording citizens participating in the demonstrations against mining?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u33	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Sunday 27-10-2019, during the events of the 1940 national anniversary, the Municipality of Pogonios held celebrations in Kalipaki. The Ioannina Police Department has taken all necessary steps to ensure order, prevent and prevent unlawful acts and criminal offences. In the context of the measures taken, there was a peaceful deterrent to approaching the scene of a few people holding banners. These people wanted to show their opposition to hydrocarbons extracts, thereby disrupting holidays. It should be noted here that the relevant departments of the Ioannina Police Directorate have not been denounced or reported by any of the incidents described in your question or other problems encountered at the place and time of the events mentioned above. In any case, however, once specific reports or complaints have been made about incidents taking place during the events in Kalipaki by the Hellenic Police Headquarters will be ordered to carry out an administrative investigation to verify their validity and to account for any disciplinary responsibilities. Each citizen's protest is perfectly understandable and constitutionally protected. The detailed plan for recording the protesters' mining from the police and the National Intelligence Service know that they have nothing to do with reality. Anniversary events, such as the representation of the Battle of Kalpaki, are not the right time and place to manifest each other's positions. Such events contribute to maintaining national memory and are being organized to honor the national anniversaries and the struggles of those who spilled their blood and gave us a homeland free. Anyone who wants to protest has all the rest of the time to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u35	Thank you. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u36	I'm speechless from what you just read. Do you want to tell us that national events are events where citizens are forbidden to protest, even when these events concern the protest and the 'no' and the opposition of citizens to a foreign invasion at that time? You want to say that there are times when we forbid citizens' protests. Can any other moments be complained, not those specifics we choose as a state of national importance? It's from another time. That's why. It's like living back decades. Citizens' complaints were not made to the police, because no SAD has ever been effective in violating the police's duty. Complaints weren't made at the police, because it's obvious there's a plan. How else could the cop know that this lady was the last day in the protest? Politically, the girl had gone without a banner on her own. How else can you explain the blockage of a journalist's work? He didn't go with a banner. He went to record the event. And when there was an incident, it was his obligation to record it. What is clear is that there is a repressive plan, which includes a record of citizens participating in protests and exclusion from each event. It's not the first time that it's been blocked. It's just impressive that even in the reenactment of the Kalpakis battle, a very important day for the place, even that's where it happened. I want to draw your attention. Merra25 will keep a close eye on what is happening, on human rights and police action, and in particular on mining. The experience of police action and the NSA in Skouria is very black. It's a black piece of police history. We will not allow, with all the power we have, to continue and to be repeated in the field of mining. We will consider you politically responsible - I mean the Ministry's leadership - for everything that is noted by violating citizens' human rights. It's a right to protest. It's a right to defend this place. We're also talking about Zagori, the national parks, the Geopark, the National Park. There you try to make mining, destroying tourism, water sources and habitats that are internationally recognized. It makes sense for citizens to worry and protest. The absurdity is to suppress these protests.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u37	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u38	Without my intention, Mr Papoutsis, to do a history lesson, I would like to remind you of two things about the Kalpiaki battle. In the war of the '40s, the 8th Division and in particular its headquarters were based in Kalpiki. The Greek soldiers remained in their seats, fighting hard. For example, I remind them of their heroic struggle in Grambala. They intercepted all the Italian attacks and removed the enemy. So the 8th Division, with the fight and the sacrifices of her fighters in Kalpaki, was recorded in history as the first to defeat the Axis Forces. On such a day of memory and high symbolism, a group of citizens wanted to protest about mining. Police had as their mission the preservation of the climate and the anniversary spirit of the event, as well as ensuring that the municipality's events were conducted smoothly under the name "Kalpiaki" and that is what they did. Impressive of the negative approach that is distinguished from the content of your question today, Mr Arsenis. You consider that the Greek police are pushing towards authoritarianism and indulgence. I want to assure you, from both the police and the ministry, that the police operate within the framework of democracy and legitimacy. If anything irregular that escapes this framework happens, there are procedures and filters so that it can be checked. In this case with the events in Kalpaki it is typical that so far there have been no complaints in the spirit of the question and everything has evolved smoothly. The police are still at the forefront. I invite you to trust the Greek Police, who every day seeks from an end to the country, for the orderliness, security and social peace of citizens, as well as for national security as a whole. The Greek Police are distinguished both to its members and to its leadership by a inspired democratic conscience, socialism and rationality, having as its mission the protection and service of the citizen and not the oppression and manipulation of him by violent methods of repression and intimidation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the third under No 175/11-2019 topical question of the second question of the Corfu MP of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “The EKAB Corfu is in operation.” Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your presence today. Today we come to raise an issue that is very important for Corfu, Mr Minister, which concerns the EKAV which comes to serve the island of Corfu, the island of Paxos and the adjacent islands. It is clear and is well known all the problems and the - if you like - a malfunction that exists in the EKAV of Corfu. The island of Corfu, Mr. Minister, is an island with a hundred thousand inhabitants, which, during the summer months and especially during the tourist months, is tripling its population. It is an island that has a hundred and six villages and a very large road network, consisting of at least a thousand kilometres. Five hundred kilometres is a national and prefecture network and over five hundred kilometres is an inter-universal network which brings the residential areas to communication. For these geographical reasons concerning the island, the incorrect functioning of the EKAB has been established, which has occasionally been called upon to have an EKAB sector in northern Corfu and in southern Corfu. A second point which has been asked is that there should also be an increase in the mechanics and human resources, and we should also see the question of helicoways on both the adjacent islands and the helico-port that has been planned to be on the roof of the hospital in Corfu. All of this to offer better health and feel safer for the Corks. For this reason, Mr President, I should like you to answer what the Ministry of Health's intentions are to ensure that the failures and malfunctions of the EKAV Corfu, which have repeatedly cost human lives - and it proves to be effective at any time. Secondly, do you intend to provide the EAW with the necessary, necessary human resources and the necessary equipment, given that the situation is now out of control?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u41	The State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, will answer. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Biagi, first of all, I would like to say that we are seeking a permanent solution to the problems and are not sufficient for their day-to-day management. We must - and this is what we have done - record failures and malfunctions, recognise problems and provide solutions. I can assure you that we have a full picture of the situation and the issues and we are working on the best possible solutions. I must tell you that these solutions must be permanent and not on a daily basis. Since the island of Corfu is one of the top tourist destinations certainly our attention should be greater when planning solutions. And these solutions are designed in the context of the new operational planning of the EAW, which includes everything you say. In the area of EKAV Corfu, human resources are specific and the operational needs of the sector are indeed covered by two ambulances. There are immobilized ambulances and our goal is to repair and buy new ambulances not only for Corfu but also for the entire territory. The above ambulances are well aware that they attempt and meet the needs of the prefecture as there is care to be provided with ambulances from the Hospital of Ioannina. In your question you also referred to the telephone centre in Corfu. Let me say that no negative impact has been observed in the functioning of the sector. In any case, these solutions think that they rationalise the management of the incidents and numerically enhance the potential on the island. As regards staffing with required equipment and personnel of the EKA in Corfu, our aim is, as I have said, to strengthen the EKA with permanent staff of ambulance rescuers and crews and strengthen the fleet of ambulances with modern ambulances that meet the needs. Of course, the purpose is also to examine all possible solutions within the framework of the new operational planning of the EAW concerning both the aerospace on the island and any type of crossings. I should like to inform you that all the procedures required for the recruitment of fifty regular staff of ambulances and thirty-seven regular staff of ambulance crew have already been launched by the Ministry of Health. At the same time, the recruitment planning process for 2020 is under way, in cooperation with the administration of the EAW. Additional needs will be met through the recruitment of ancillary staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Comrade, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u44	Minister, with all due respect for your reply, I think that this is a general answer and it is about all the targeting you have to increase or improve what the EAW gives at a pan-Hellenic level. My question is specific, and it is about whether your political leadership today accepts or does not accept the need to create another EKAV that will help both northern Corfu and southern Corfu. It is something that the Corfiots expect today to hear from you. You're misinformed. Do you, Minister, bear in mind that, at this moment, every day, we have two ambulances on duty? When you order to leave with a patient from the hospital in Corfu for a tertiary hospital - most of the time for Ioannina - you stay with an ambulance on the island. Are you aware, Minister, that the ambulance that makes the stay for a tertiary hospital starts from Corfu, enters the ferry, and when it arrives in Igoumenitsa, is the patient transferred from one ambulance to another? Are you aware, Minister, until you bring up to date this proposal that has to do with upgrading the EKAV to a pan-Hellenic level, as you said before, about the needs of Corfu today? Do you know the necessity today in Corfu for the permanent operation of a man trained with a machine to provide his services on the island of Corfu? Do you know the day-to-day problem? As far as the telephone centre is concerned, I will simply give you examples that are available to you. We are ready at all times to prove to your Ministry, Minister, that even the call centre has reached the point where we can transfer it to Ioannina. He doesn't even know the geography and anthropogeography of the island. It reached the point from the Ottomans asking for an approach from the port ship to a farther port than the one that was closest to the problem. We reached the point of man after being transferred from the Ottoon - two months ago - to transport by private ambulance and to demolition at the end. These are things that we cannot put into the view of a more general EKT policy. It is precisely the problems, and I mention them as such. I would really like you to refer to the problems that we have mentioned and that we are ready to prove to you at any time. They're not questions that I put. I'm very well-qualified and your intentions for your design tomorrow. They are problems and questions posed by the Corfiot local society. Local society does not feel safe, Minister. In view of the fact that Corfu Hospital is a secondary hospital, as it is necessary to transport almost daily to higher hospitals and given the situation in the aerospace, Corfu does not feel safe. It does not feel safe one hundred and ten thousand inhabitants today and five hundred thousand people in the summer months. In the end, it must be possible for this citizen who is fighting there to provide security, to be able to attempt, to live with his family. Such reasonable and such responses, I am sorry, but they do not help in that direction. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u45	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I have told you that we have recorded the problems, we know them and we have never denied the situation we have received and the problems that exist. I also told you that there is a specific service plan under way in a pan-Hellenic range and not just for the island of Corfu. I do not think that an isolated incident, such as the incident you refer to about the call centre, may be a reason not to transfer the operation of the centre so that it becomes more efficient to manage the incidents in the area. I don't think that's a reason not to transfer the call centre. I would like to remind you that recently, because we consider that the EAW really is an operational tool of the National Health System, we have legislated the merger of the National Emergency Aid Centre with the National Health Operations Centre in order to modernise the services provided and to coordinate actions and actions. In this context, I have told you that there is a specific plan, which is being prepared and we will soon be presenting it. And, of course, we are also considering everything you said about stations, about a system of aerospace and the modernisation of the fleet and the recruitment of permanent staff, so that there are solutions and there is no concern among the people of Corfu. I also told you that we also recognize the specificity of the island because it is a tourist destination.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the Vatheos Alydos Municipal School. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having participated in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, seventeen students and students and two educational attendants from the 57th Athens Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The second question under number 792/20-9-2019 of the circle of petitions - questions by the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'The conclusion of contracts for workers through the ESDP and OAED in public hospitals', will now be discussed. The State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, will answer. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u48	Minister, you have undertaken a very difficult ministry. Many problems have deteriorated over the past four years and, in addition, your ministry is in an explosive situation. On the other hand, it is burdened with the financial management of the migration-refugee, particularly in the Aegean islands, the remote areas and now in the inland. It is well known that subsistence in the area of public health creates suffocating conditions in the functioning of existing structures. In particular, in public hospitals, the lack of staff has created, among other things, long waiting lists for surgery, malfunctions for on-call and failure of the hundred and fifty beds of intensive treatment units, especially at a time when more cases are expected due to the influenza virus. In the past, you have said that over the past few years, some eight thousand workers have left the NS and only seven thousand have been recruited. The principle of one-intake to leave public hospitals was therefore not respected. This situation is expected to deteriorate further due to the impending termination of employment contracts for workers employed in public hospitals. In particular, in November 2019, the term of four hundred and ninety-five assistant doctors employed through the ESRB expired, while in December 2019 the term of other five hundred, creating a ninety-five ninety-five positions of doctors of different specialities, is expired. In addition, in February 2020, eight hundred thirty injured persons recruited through OADs, while the existing gaps in wounded persons already amount to more than 50% of the intended organic positions. Autumn 2020 ends the contracts of still one thousand seven hundred staff serving through OAED in hospitals. In addition, they are at risk of being removed directly from the hospitals by a thousand additional doctors whose contracts expired on 31 December 2018 and whose employment has continued with an extension. Their payroll from January 2019 until today was deemed illegal by a decision of the Court of Auditors, thereby jeopardising the staffing of mainly regional hospitals, to which they are mainly employed. So we would like to ask you: How do you intend to fill in the gaps that are created in public hospitals since the end of the contracts of subsidiary doctors and workers employed through the NSRP or OAED programmes? Is it the purpose of your Ministry to renew their term and with what funds will it be financed? How do you intend to deal with the serious problem caused by employment and the payroll of subsidiary doctors by extension following a decision of the Court of Auditors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u49	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, you have often referred to your question in a number of contracts, and that is what I should like to say that it clearly demonstrates the situation in the National Health System, because the solutions that have been given to staffing the human resources system have been temporary rather than permanent. We have stressed many times that we are looking for permanent solutions. Fortunately with these tools we can and can cover our immediate needs, but we are still working - and we are working in this direction - on the establishment of the critical areas of the National Health System with permanent staff so that there can be permanent solutions. As far as the accusations you referred to are concerned, the first thing is that pensioning a large number of doctors is a big issue, because we all know that the National Health System has now collected pensions, has spent thirty-five years since its establishment and in recent years a large number of doctors have been on the way out because of retirement. And, of course, what you said, namely that more doctors left the system and fewer entered, without respecting the ratio of 1 to 1. In this direction is the government's commitment, so that there will be more recruitment of medical staff and, of course, in our immediate planning, the activation of a specific article that provides for the opening of the process of filling a vacancy for doctors six months before retirement, so that at the time of retirement the next doctor can undertake a direct service so that no gaps can be created. As far as OAED contracts are concerned, you know that a few days ago the OAED administration made a decision to extend the contracts of the four thousand workers to structures of the health system. We are therefore pleased to have this staff available for an additional time, so that we can have the opportunity and time to better plan our needs and fill out the vacant posts. Now, as far as subsidiary staff is concerned, there are several categories. The one you mentioned is the NSRF, the Public Investment Programme. It's over at the end of the month and they're less than three hundred now these doctors. We have proceeded with procedures to ensure that the positions taken by these subsidiary doctors are again declared as normal subsidiary staff, so that there is no gap in meeting the needs of the hospitals in which they are serving. In addition, we have requested appropriations to cover the posts, to call again the posts of ancillary staff now ending in 2019, by the end of the year and by the end of 2020. This is indeed a large number of ancillary staff always, and I think that the procedures will be completed in a reasonable time and the gaps that exist will be adequately covered. Finally, with regard to the problem you referred to in relation to the Court of Auditors' decision, that is, of course, because there is a certain degree of provision in contract law. I am referring to a specific presidential decree, which provides for the three-month distance to be between the conclusion of staff contracts. We are in the process of resolving the issue, in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, so that there are no problems for workers working in the National Health System for this type of contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u51	Thank you. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u52	Minister, I have listened very carefully. As is well known, in order not to collapse the system, the previous government has followed the interim solution of the subsidiary and has tried to find several solutions and to extend their stay. Obviously the recruitment of auxiliary staff is a temporary solution. However, as is customary in our country, the exception has become a rule and the rule has become an exception. For us, the Change Movement must stop because of tolerance or weakness the state of covering empty organic positions for doctors, nurses and paramedical staff with subsidiary staff. It's got to end the middle-bird solutions. The solution for us must be clear and permanent. That is why we are proposing that the staff, all the healthcare units, be directly accounted for by permanent staff recruitment. In particular, physicians bishops should be recruited, renewing the already elderly staff of the ERC. Only in this way will we be able to keep Greek doctors in our country. Nor can any planning of permanent recruitment be successful if the recruitment system is not changed, the evaluation system. If the selection procedures are not shortened and you don't find formula to complete quickly, the solution to cover empty organic positions with ASs will be perpetuated and the problem of staffing the ESS will lead to a stagnation of hospitals. So the question arises: Have you reached the number of recruitments to be done? Is there any associated programming? Will you change the choice procedure for doctors so that the same delays were not observed as was the case in the past? Because what happens is that the recruitment of medical and paramedical staff is announced every year, but without being implemented in time. You are bombarding mass media by means of recruitment notices, to reassure citizens, but in substance nothing is done, the shortcomings remain. Yesterday's examples are characteristic. HORL is at risk of being closed at the hospital of Paidon Pentelis, but also at the hospital of Limnos is in emergency. Another point I would like to make is that the question of the staffing of the ESS also concerns a number of officials who have left in four years and who have been engaged in different tasks. Are they coming back? Do you know how many people they are? Finally, I would like to raise one last point, so that I do not eat you the time, what the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association has recently said about the change of legal persons under public law to private legal persons. How do you think to deal with it? I would like to hear your opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u53	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, in my protology and in other questions that I think you and your colleagues have made, we have clearly stressed that we are seeking permanent solutions to the health system rather than temporary ones. Indeed - I said it myself - the recruitment process for ancillary staff is a temporary solution and does not solve the problems of the health system. Let me say that, because you referred to the speed with which recruitment must take place, it is not important to announce only a number of recruitments, so that we can create impressions and say that yes, so many doctors, so many nurses, so many other staff will be hired. It is important that this procedure should take place quickly, because we have seen recruitments that take over a year and two years in order to get the jobs paid. And after that period, unfortunately, there are no doctors who will pay these posts. They've left abroad. Of course, there must be doctors so that they can go to cover these positions. All this requires a design. Since you have referred to the coverage of empty organic positions, I can tell you that of course we have captured needs at ground level and are planning recruitment planning in the coming years. In this context, we also need to see the hospital agencies, because there are new specialities in medicine, new technologies. We need these new specialties, the new specialties to incorporate them into modern hospital organograms. At the moment you know that there is a credit for about two and a half thousand staff, a thousand three hundred nurses and other staff, and the rest of the medicine, which is under way, and we are in the process of calling about nine hundred and forty doctors. We have been delayed in this area because we are preparing the process with the help of technology and IT so that within a short period these posts are paid and doctors can be directly available to the health system. As far as the different tasks are concerned, we are, of course, opposed to employing staff in different tasks. They must all be employed in accordance with the description of the positions laid down. We have also made a record of the current situation and we will soon be able to give you specific figures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u55	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 on the "Prime Responsibility of Ministers", as is true, the 7-11-2019: Criminal case against former Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras and former Deputy Minister for Civil Protection Mr Nikolaos Toskas. We continue with the first 1107/4-10-2019 question of the circle of petitions - questions by the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros - Christou Aylonitis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Restoration of the image of Achilles Palace in Corfu". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos, will answer. Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we had a very interesting debate when the case was being discussed about the transfer of the coastal front. We met and you were very kind, and I plead with you. However, I would just like the same approach to this topical question. I'll remind you why I'm saying it. On 4-10-2019 I asked you a question about Achilles' image. I did not receive a written reply and was therefore made to a timely question. In the meantime, the whole matter was shaken on a pan-Hellenic scale with the help of the media. The issue has been globalised and I have given too many interviews to a foreign media, because - you know - Achilles has a European dimension as a museum. Then - and very well he did - Mr. Biagis asked you a timely question. You answered and I watched it. In your answer to Mr Biagi's timely question, you referred to the fact that Mr Gikas, your congressman, and Mr Aylonite, visited you in the intervening period. I'm not saying it because you took the lollipop out of my mouth. To God, how much I care. What I am interested in, however, is that they have not responded to all these moves with your services. And I would explain: I had informed you by the question that by 31-10-2019 the technical notes had to be submitted to introduce the whole repair work into a programme managed by the Ionian Islands Management Authority. The previous regulator, Mr Galatica, had put this in place. The last day, 31-10, you submitted it. That is to say, the administration of the EBRD submitted. And that's it. In the intervening period, I conducted an autopsy in the area of Achilles. I'm telling you, the image is hopeless. I've brought you photos that one might say I've intercepted. The entire floor of the third museum on visiting Greece is under collapse. He's been booked. I demanded to enter as a member of Corfu. I'll give you pictures. Please take care of them. Of course you will respond as you will, and in fact the issue of the restoration of Achilles will be raised in the time-consuming process of financing this programme, tendering and compromise. Until then there will be no upper floor of Achilles. Look out, I use words and expressions to their absoluteness. Of course, I would ask, from now on, that the central government, whichever central government, should give a little more serious consideration to the region. Previously, Mr. Biagis, my colleague from Corfu, spoke to you about the EMCDDA. I do not want to refer to the EKRD, which is a very correct question, but the general answer I do not think can meet the needs of a society - and I am ending it - which it requires.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Colleague, you've reached four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u58	So please tell me why, while I asked you the question, instead of quitting the administration of the EBRD, you resigned the Director - look out! - of Achilles, an employee, and the manager, and you did not give up the administration of the EBRD.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u59	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Colleague, all that you described before was done in the last quarter? In the last three months, everything you described to us has happened, because I think you have been a government for four and a half years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u61	Answer my question, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u62	He wasn't my colleague back then...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Kegeroglu, please very much. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u64	A week ago, as you said, Mr. Colleague, I answered Achilles for a question by Congressman Corfu, Mr. Biagi. It is given the sensitivity of all of us in protecting and highlighting emblematic monuments, such as Achilles. Much more, when they are intrinsically linked to the picture of the country's total tourism product and in the case of Corfu. Achilles, as a museum, as you know, has been described as a new monument and has been protected by the Ministry of Culture. The first work on the complete restoration and promotion of the buildings of the palace complex of Achilles began in 2014, with the co-financing of the Operational Programme NRW 2007-2013, in order to address the problem of stagnation of the bearer building. The registered act shall consist of six sub-projects. The first-stage project was completed in 2016 and the upper floor of the door building was given at the entrance level and it reopened as an entrance-sales store, with the necessary building finishes and the necessary electrical and mechanical facilities on its premises. In the medium term and until the second phase of the project, which will join the NSRF, it was reasonable that specific work should only be done with urgency. In this direction work was carried out in 2018 to repair and clean the enlightenment (i.e. pyramid) above the area of the central staircase, and replaced the perimeter to the Munich garden, which showed intense signs of rust and perforations in some parts. With the cooperation and guidance of the Ministry of Culture, it was decided to restore the insulation of selected rooms, which had a hydroinsulation problem, as well as the collector metal pipe on the roof of the building, work currently being carried out. Also, the Department of Conservation of Ancient and New Monuments of the Ministry of Culture will undertake to partially remove the damage to certain parts of the roof wall paintings, whose full restoration will be through the NRP. As far as your question is concerned, to incorporate the restoration work into the NRP, there is already progress and development, for which I will be briefing you in my second language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u65	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u66	I will not be late now, Mr President. I told you and stressed once again that the Achilles of Corfu, from which the EBRD receives three million per year, is in a desperate situation. And you're telling me there's been some minor repairs at the perimeter, at the entrance, etc. I tell you features in my question that it has become the upper floor ruin in effect and I will bring you photos. In my opinion, I am a lawyer, a question of the building's stagnation. And you tell me what the previous government did. I'll tell you what. In 2011 they expected the then utilization of tourist properties 14.400,000 euros to make use of them for the repair of the building. These problems have been from 2011 forward. By 2016 an amount of 1 million was absorbed, Minister. And in the last few years, Mr Galatsatos - I repeat - took the programme from the managing authority of Athens and brought it to Corfu, and now, 12,200,000 euros are waiting for the EBRD to make use of it. The EBRD for me is a legal person governed by public law, it is not an object - be careful - of party confrontation about who did most of the things. The point is to become the Achilles. Achilles won't happen. It will not wait for Achilles - I say it with all seriousness - when the process of joining the programme - I told you before - tender - compromise, etc. It's yesterday our obligation to build Achilles. Yesterday! And that is where the big question arises, in my view, that you are not changing the administration. Mr. Terzakis and Mr. Polyzos were appointed in October 2018 by the government of SYRIZA. I'll take it. Why don't you change it? The administration of the ERCD by an act of law you changed it. Why don't you change the administration, which is about to collapse hundreds of buildings in Greece? But what matters is only the collection. The EBRD works and, in general, the ICT as a collection fund to serve our budgetary debt. That's the whole case. In this sense, Minister, I would ask you to look at the situation, because you obviously think my word is opposition, while my word is based on my unrelenting interest as a citizen of Corfu in restoring this disgraceful image that tarnishes the tourist product and the image of Corfu not only pan-Herzegovina, but also internationally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u67	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u68	Mr Colleague, you said that maintenance work had to be done not today, but yesterday. And last night it was you and you didn't do anything at all. In my reply to Mr. Biagi, I presented the financial data relating to the operation of the museum. According to this, the museum’s revenues for 2018 amounted to EUR 2,983,477, the costs of EUR 1,482,863, corresponding to a final financial result of EUR 1,500,614. My position is quite clearly that part of the revenue should be made available for the maintenance and promotion of the museum and the environment. Clearly and there should be the reciprocity of this form. Now, with regard to the second-phase projects for the restoration and promotion of the buildings of the palace complex of Achilles, a financing proposal has already been submitted to the relevant invitation of the operational programme ‘IONIA NISIA’, with a total budget of EUR 12,2 million. I should also like to inform you that on 17 October a meeting took place between representatives of the Ministry of Culture, EBRD step by step and the head of the NSRF department of the Ministry of Tourism. There was a comprehensive review and analysis of the proposal, no problems or shortcomings were identified and the relevant dossier for the project was submitted. We are now awaiting the accession decision, so that progress can be made in the implementation of the project. The project is linked to several sub-projects, such as the completion of the remaining contractual item of sub-project 5 and the implementation of the contract (project 4), entitled ‘Restoration and promotion of the Achilles complex in Corfu’. The sub-project 'New exhibition in the palace of Achilles in Corfu' has been added to the natural object of the proposal. The sub-project of this operation will include architectural, static and electromechanical interventions in the building of the complex (patient, baron, baron, bariums, shuttle) and environmental planning work. Mr Colleague, as you may see, we have moved immediately, the financing proposal has been submitted and the accession decision is expected to be put forward in order to proceed with the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u69	We continue with the fourth with No 171/5-11-2019 topical question of the first cycle of the Piraeus II piraeus by Mera25, Mr. Fotinis Bakadamas to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Human images at the Reception and Identification Centre (KYT) Leros". The Deputy Minister for Civil Protection will answer Mr. Georgios Koumoutsakos. Here, Mrs. Bakadima, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, first of all, thank you for being here today, to answer my question about the images we have all seen at Leros' Cyt. As you may have seen - I imagine you are watching it more closely, as should all of us, if we do not already - in Lero they have taken about two and a half thousand refugees into the psychiatric courtyard, where, at the moment, there are two hundred patients, fifteen more serious cases, even with the prosecutor's orders, and the rest of the lighter form. As the doctors who have visited the Cyts, which has been operating since 2016, since most buildings have been abandoned, many children have been found to have flea stings, some being infected, suffering from abdominal algae, diarrhea, asthma, mothers who have been lurking not having vitamins and milk to feed their children. Also, these painful people coexist with the psychiatric inmates, making up a health "bomb" that can explode at any time. Moreover, as it winters, we believe that the weather is not suitable for these people to stay in the tents and courtyard of the psychiatry. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need another half-minute. Also, in addition to the difficulties - because Leros is not the only example of a CYT where conditions are miserable - and all the conditions prevailing in camps, where we have stacked the people who come to our door asking for help, too often they have to deal with the holidays and barbecues that set Greek fellow citizens out of the places that we have stacked the refugees, as if they are bakery, luggage, people who don't want them. They are Greeks who want to exercise their right to free consumption of pork, as your party MP Mr Kyranakis said a few days ago in the Committee on Public Administration. Obviously, the consumption of pork is not legally prohibited in our country, but our conscience should be forbidden when it is made out of places where people who do not have to eat and wait from us, from state welfare, so that they can have food to feed their children. To keep my back, I'm closing with the two questions I'd like to ask you, Minister. The first is: What initiatives will be taken to address the matter immediately? And, secondly, where have all these refugees who have been transported inland from Lero to other islands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u71	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Bakadima, a serious question you decided to turn it into graphics. But let's actually go to her, and I'll answer her graphics later on. It is true that the number of citizens of third countries who arrived on the island of Leros and who are led for registration and identification at the Reception Centre of Leros is increasing. It is increasing because over the past few months - for a period of six months, I would say - an outbreak of immigration and refugee arrival has begun, for reasons, and sources that are outside its borders. Today, indeed, the number of people in Leros's Reception and Identification Centre exceeds the potential of the centre. However, it exceeded them on 7 July 2019 when the new government was elected. Then, for eight hundred sixty predicted places, there were about a thousand two hundred people in Lero, that is 50% more than it was possible. And this continued due to the truly increased flows. We have lived in the last six months, starting at about the end of May until now, a small crisis, a micrography of the crisis in 2015. Thus, the already overcrowded structures have suffered an additional pressure. You have referred specifically to the issue of public health. When we talk about this, I would like us to be extremely careful and I recommend that you as a party also be careful. Because you should have mentioned that there is already a step by the National Public Health Agency, EGE, which provides primary support and medical care services. As far as the general policy is concerned, as you know, there is the decision of the Ministerial Council and before the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that is, the government's decision to immediately decongested reception and identification centres on the islands, to increase their capacity and to make full use of existing hospitality structures in the mainland. You asked me where the people who left Lero were moved because there have been three transports in September, October and November. At first, there were two hundred and thirty - two people, eight in October and sixty - seven in November, as the services inform me. They are mainly vulnerable groups of third country citizens with the removal of geographical restrictions. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] They've been to Grevena, Koutsocheros, Nea Kavala, Oinophitas, Thermopylae. In other words, there is a great dispersion, according to the government's decision to never exceed the movement of asylum seekers from the islands, 1% of the region's population. That's government policy. Also, to finish with the graphic part of your question, I agree with Mrs Bakoyannis's position. That's my place. This is the position of Deputy Minister of Civil Protection. And because the graphics have to end only once: neither with socks, with beers, nor with cuts, is immigration policy being pursued.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u73	My colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. I agree with you in the last point that foreign policy is not done either with sockets or with beer and very clearly with policy on such a serious issue, such as refugee. Because you told me that we have not seen the evidence, as far as I can see, at a joint press conference by bodies such as "Doctors without Borders", "International Amnesty" and others, after their visit on October 30, a few days ago, on the island, they certified that the pharmacy of the CYT is empty and the breast-feeding mothers have no access to vitamins and iron. If it is wrong for some of the findings made by doctors who visited the CYPD, please correct me. You will allow me to table some clarifications. A few days ago we saw reports from government officials that for those who have a refugee profile the asylum procedure will be facilitated. So, if you can tell me very briefly what the refugee profile includes, how you understand it. Also, if you can, I would like you to tell me what is going to happen with those who do not fulfil it, in accordance with the criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u75	Mr Colleague, what you're saying is off the question of your question. I say it with all due respect to everyone. If the Minister can answer you. However, your question with what you say in your dentistry has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u76	I imagine the first point for the doctors who visited Lero is on the subject, Mr President. Then let me ask the Minister if he can tell us - perhaps he cannot answer now, he may not have the necessary information - how many of these refugees who have moved inland from Leros to meet the evidence and have started a asylum procedure. You will allow me to conclude with a very brief comment, which we believe you will agree on several points. We should care not to stack refugees into inappropriate structures, not to lose a thousand two hundred children, not to leave people without medicine, nor to let them live in tents. I will close with two lyrics of Tassos Levadite, although this may also be considered out of the question. Leivaditis says: "The door opens at night, the lamp I hold high, to see the sad ones come, to find company." Our people have kept the door open so far. We, as parliamentarians, must also keep the lamps high, so that we can grapple the way to those who are looking for refuge in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u77	Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, in no case do we want to interfere with Members' questions. However, because there is, at least so far, a great deal of response to questions, Members should also speak - all - on this issue and not on matters outside. You could ask another question and they'll answer you. I say this, so that the procedure can proceed in the right way. May the Minister answer you whatever he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u78	Let the Minister answer me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u79	The Minister can answer you. Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u80	I am starting with the lyrics of Levaditis and I want to tell you that this government, the whole of Greek society, the entire political forces of the country and the international community, are very well aware and have paid tribute to the Greeks and Greeks, the inhabitants of the islands, who since 2015 have really opened their arms to accept them. That was the situation of 2015. Since then, the same people who have welcomed and offered support, support and understanding five years ago, the same people, because they are prolonging, today do not have the same behavior. This means that it is urgent to resolve the issue. That's how the government handles it. Especially as regards immigration, one cannot ignore the fact that there is a dimension of the security of citizens and the need to ensure the critical social and national sense of security. It cannot be ignored as a basic management dimension of the migration-refugee. A democratic state must protect itself and its cohesion, while defending human rights. This combination of respect for the need for a strong sense of security in society and respect for human rights. It's this combination that makes the right immigration policies. As far as Lero is concerned, I listen very carefully to the conclusions you have given me. If there is room for improvement, which is always there, they will be sought. But I do not want to see a false and distorting picture of the absence of the state from Lero, when I told you that his services already exist, it is planned to carry out these tasks on the island. We're under emergencies. That's the reality. It is good to have suggestions and labels so that the work can be done better, but it is a great mistake, political and social, that the presence, care and notion of the state, which is present and which is even strongly present, is degraded. As I told you, there is always room for improvement. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I now live in what you told me about a refugee or immigration profile. Inland transport is carried to those who are either vulnerable groups or families or children. The leader of your party, about a month ago, when he asked the President of the Government, Mr Mitsotakis, said that there is no distinction between refugees and immigrants, ignoring that the UN is basing its entire immigration policy on the distinction between refugees and immigrants. Yeah, well, there's a refugee profile and there's a migration profile. The refugee profile is people who come from countries or political conditions that really make them refugees. And there are others who leave their countries, who are generally safe, to seek, as they think, a better economic luck, but who are illegally coming to the country. So we will treat them as illegally incoming. The speeding up of asylum procedures, which was adopted last week, is precisely what this objective is. It defends the rights of those who have the right to international protection, in order not to wait endlessly, which is right, but also to protect the state against those who have been illegally - proven - who have entered our country. Because, as I have said, both elements must exist in a policy, and respect for human rights and the need to protect the security of society and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u81	As you have seen, my colleague, and the Minister has exceeded the Rules of Procedure and answered out of the question. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th Coropio Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the fifth under No 174/11-2019 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Delay in implementing high-voltage sub-strategic cables and removal of high-voltage gates in western Athens". The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Gerasimis Thomas, will answer. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. I welcome you, Mr. Undersecretary. This is a very important issue. We would also like the Minister's answers, but what we particularly want is for you to give us concrete answers. Because last week, your Deputy State Secretary for the issue of the errands avoided answering. He said he knows nothing and, here, the decision was taken on this matter by the Council of State by canceling the project. So, it was a very well-known issue. This issue for high-voltage pillars concerns the health of citizens. If you haven't visited it, I invite you to visit. Go to the square of the Municipality of Agia Varvaras, see these huge pillars on the houses of the citizens. Go to Saint Anargyros, see the pillars in the heart of the school court when the UN has documented the correlation between the existence of the high voltage pillars and the child leukemia. There are many health problems that citizens experience, such as cancer, and there is a multi-annual struggle for the municipalities to leave these pillars. At some point, the state came and said, yes, we'll kick them out, with the decision on the 2006-2010 planning. He said that the High Voltage Center would be held in olive grove, and once this has been done, it will proceed with the substituting of the cables. It is still a matter of time, at the same time as the health of citizens is affected every day. At the same time, the project promoter is IPTO, which you have announced will privatize. A private IPTO will never do this work, because it is international experience like this. So we invite you to commit to the timetable for the implementation of the project and to commit that before any destructive, for us, a privatisation plan for IPTO, this project will have been carried out. Because, as I told you, we're talking about child leukemia and we're talking about pillars that are currently in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u83	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, it is true that this issue has been afflicting the local society of western Athens for many years and has been the subject of discussion in the House in the past. The Ministry of Environment and Energy is aware of the problem and we are watching it very closely. The problem has started many decades ago, when the development of the ESM was done without a specific placement framework. There are today problems in urban areas arising from this installation of UNEMP projects. The areas you mentioned are such cases that receive transport lines of 150 kW which go through these areas. It is the IPTO who is the only person responsible for planning the network and has anticipated the studies and actions to address the problem. It has been planned for many years, as you said, to build a new Ultra High Voltage Centre in Ruff, in the same place as the existing Ruff substation. The High Voltage Center will be of a closed type, as you mentioned. That's gonna solve the problem all the time. It will bring about the dismantling of the old station, the dismantling of the air transport lines, the diversion of the transport line connecting the Ruff sub-station to the Schematari and the construction of three new underground cable lines that will connect the Ruff High Voltage Centre to the Koumoundouros High Voltage Centre. These two projects are therefore directly linked. This has been the case in the past, it will also be the case today. I would like to say that this project has been provided for in the 10-year programme for the development of EMCDDA, for the period 2018-2027, with a view to completion in the first half of 2025. The IPTO, who is responsible for this project and who has it in his programme and is a leading body for this project, is conducting the contacts so that the construction processes can be directly licensed for the timely implementation of the project. I shall return to the issue of licensing and procedures in my dentistry. But this project is in the ten-year programme and this is independent of the ownership status of the IPTO manager.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u85	Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u86	Minister, your answer is not satisfactory. You cannot tell us that we will leave this issue to the bells. If there's so much trouble with the FMR, let's go ahead with the downgrade immediately, now and let's make the FMD Ruff next. It is not possible at the moment in western Athens, which has all the burden of the Trinity, the transported pollution from the Trinity, which has so many degradation problems - at the moment the decision has been made where a church of Lamia takes its ownership of the entire Polikilos Mount and two hundred thirty blocks of building blocks in Petroupoli and Peristeri - and where in this setting people struggle daily with environmental degradation and deterioration of their quality of life, we also have high voltage cables in 2019 on their homes. In fact, if you see the pillars, they're above their houses. It's the pillar and underneath is the house. I'm not talking about cables, I'm talking about the pole. It's got to end this thing once. And from what I understand from the timetable you are presenting, you leave it for after the privatisation of IPTO. This means that you are now letting the private investor redesign the program and send it back to the bells, as the public has so far done. The date of implementation of the project has been gradually extended over time. You must make a political decision and this work must be done immediately, with the Ruff FMD or without the Ruff FMD. Technical solutions exist. But if you want to go ahead with the FTR, you need to look at the issue of the Presidential Decree on olive groves, because the problems there are town planning, and that is why it is not going any further either. So it's in your hands. I fear, however, that this government is not so interested in western Athens. These areas are very poor. You're interested in other areas. I would remind you, however, that the President of the New Democracy and Prime Minister have been elected there, so you have a double responsibility and you are double-exposed if you do not take political initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much. Look, it is not true that we are not interested in these areas. Last week, in another question, Minister Hatzidakis offered to visit the area with you. I'm offering myself, since you said it was important to see them in person. We're an expedited ministry with surveillance. We do not have the competence of this project, but we are interested in it, and we are ready to do everything we can. One of the problems that arises is the urban forecasts, urban permits, which fall within the municipalities. There needs to be co-operation with the municipalities, to get urban permits out and to go ahead with this project. It has nothing to do with IPTO's property regime. There is already private capital in IPTO. IPTO is a regulated entity. It's regulated by RAE. His investment work is imposed by the regulator. It is financed by those who use the network, like us, consumers. So the property regime has nothing to do with the implementation of this or other projects, as we have to say later on about other important projects that are being done for Attica, Crete, the Cyclades. The property regime has nothing to do with it. There is currently a consultation between the Municipality of Aigaleo, the Municipality of Athens, PPC and IPTOE. A solution must be found to the licensing, construction and procedural issues. We're watching them very closely. I think there will be communications from the relevant bodies soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u89	Thank you. We continue with the first with No 168/4-11-2019 topical question of the second question of the Hercules MP of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Reexamine the decision to set up a conversion station in Damasta Heraklion". Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister since 2010 from the PASOK Government and despite the crisis, or if you wish, on the occasion of the crisis, we have been working on and started implementing an energy planning, which concerned large energy sectors, such as the exploitation of hydrocarbons, the penetration of renewable energy sources and, of course, the energy proficiency of the country and the islands. Inside this design was Crete with the small and large interconnection. The small interconnection following the conflicting views of the Ministry's political leadership, with Lafazan, Skourletis, Stathakis, has been delayed over three years. And while now it should work, it just starts. And we need to see if she has any problems as it is said. The great interconnection which was planned to form part of the Israel - Cyprus - Crete - Attica - Europe, unfortunately by decision of the previous government, was excluded from the projects of common interest of the European Union, the well-known PCI. And it was decided, for practical reasons - because there was no serious scientific or other explanation - to be made from the money of the Greek taxpayer, either from the PPC or from the NSRF. This pipeline rests in Korakia Heraklion. And from Korakia Heraklion we will have the possibility of connecting the electricity grid in Crete with a current that, after being converted, can be at the disposal of consumers. The conversion station instead of being in Korakia, as planned at the beginning - and, of course, at a point where the energy centre and its location are provided for - the previous government is called, in a political direction by Mr Stathakis, putting the conversion station in Damasa. And, of course, this makes it impossible to withdraw the production units from the Linoperms, since the Linoperms will now be after the production station at such a distance that they cannot be relocated. The question, then, is: After the decision of the regional council that is negative in the installation of the station in question - positive to the project, but negative to it - after the decision of the municipality that is negative to the installation of the station, after the documented view that the position is in Korakia - the spatial plan of Crete says about Korakia, all the rules say about Korakia - without any logic, and today's leadership of the Ministry is following Mr Stathakis' stooped-up, the agreements he had made, reacting to the integration into the projects of common interest of the great interconnection and insisting on Damasta, why? Will you review the decision in accordance with the request of all Crete and local society, or will you insist on a political direction of the previous SYRIZA government? And you will explain to us the reasons why you will follow this undocumented view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u91	Your question is interesting. I see many MPs from the Change Movement. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Kegeroglou, as a member of the Heraklion Prefecture you will be very well aware that it is very important to implement this project quickly, and the main criterion we have is the need for the rapid implementation of this Attica - Crete project. This is the main axis in the interests of the electricity supply of Crete. Acceleration of procedures is a matter of national importance not only for the supply of Crete but also for economic reasons. The sooner the project becomes, the less the YMOs will be, and only as far as Crete is concerned will the Greek consumer be charged with an average of EUR 300 million per annum. The need, of course, for rapid implementation does not mean an impact on safety and environmental protection in areas where it will be developed and we will ensure that. In relation to the question you raised about the position of the conversion station a few days ago, Minister Hatzidakis met the Mayor of Maleviziou. There it was pointed out that the implementation of the project would bring significant and multifaceted benefits from the closure of the PPC plant in Linoperama. The obsolete and polluting power plant will be replaced by an underground cable leading to a conversion station outside Damasa. The implementing entity has committed not only that this station will not be visible from any part of Damasa but also for the payment of compensatory benefits to the local residents. The choice of the Damast was not arbitrary. In the context of the project’s environmental impact assessment for the installation of the conversion plant, a thorough investigation of potential positions was carried out and the investigation resulted in six possible positions, assessed on a transparent basis, the impact on the natural environment, the effects on the anthropogenic environment, archaeological sites, population, land uses and technical criteria. This assessment, based on these transparent criteria, showed that the position of Damasa is the most appropriate one. The environmental conditions to be laid down for the project, it goes without saying, will constitute the safeguard clause for the protection of the environment. For the funding and the comments you have made, I shall refer to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u93	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President, and I ask for a little more time because of the importance of this matter and, of course, if you have any objections, you can put it in this House. In the present composition, I do not think there will be any opposition! But it is a very serious matter, and I would expect Mr Thomas, who seems to be well-bred in the fortresses and services of the European Union, to be in favour of complying with European rules, the institutional framework and all that we are struggling for citizens many times as a conquest of the European Union. Mr Thomas, you are inconsistent with what you have been telling us from the European positions in which you have served. You're completely reverent. And why are you completely inconsistent? Have you taken into consideration, or have you said a word about Crete's special spatial planning, which is the law of the state? Tell us. Did you say a word about the decision of the Regional Council which is the competent body and which tells you 'no in Damasa'? You said there's no visibility. Have you been to Damasta and had no visibility? And what they wrote you, did you say? You should be aware that many times in the position of the Minister and the State Secretary may be exposed, if you say so, and without research, what is written to you even by the services. I've been in this position and I've always checked on what's been written to me. Apart from the fact that there is absolute proximity, it is absolutely absolute that the monument of the fallen, and not only the fallen, but also those executed by the Germans, is admirable. Do you know it's a classic martyr village? Do you know he's on the network of the country's martyr villages and towns? A sensitivity isn't there to hear the scream of agony? And can you tell me what position Korakia had since six? Can you tell me? Because if it were fifth, for example, or fourthly, we should discuss the criteria, by which anyone classed it. Our information and the complaint is straight. Mr Stathakis, in a political direction he chose the position of Damast and did nothing but adopt it. So all the institutions are against, the Committee on the Environment, the Regional Council, the municipality, the specific spatial planning that is an institutional framework. The European Union's rules require respect for the general view of society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm not talking about individual protests. Don't make the mistake of telling us that there's Ruvikon and there's no single moves. We're talking about a global reaction to society. And, of course, some crabs have gone to talk - and I hope they are not from the Ministry - about the money that people will get and thus retreat. Watch this. It's not simple. The position of Korakia is absolutely the most appropriate and economically. Don't inflate the bills for earthmoving and all the other things they say, because destruction in the next one is absolute. They didn't choose the place of Korakia you know why? Why wasn't it first? Because we need some more approvals. Because it is adjacent to the sea, it is adjacent, that is, to other ministries, that it needs more bureaucracy. Oh, no! You know very well that the energy centre has been established there and that is where it must be done. And tell us if the transfer from the Linopera had anything to do with the big wire. None. The operation of the polluter unit is related to the small interconnection, which was delayed by the previous government, Lafazanis, Skourletis, Stathakis. We need to tell them in detail why they were following conflicting policies. So it delayed three years the little electrical interconnection that we had designed and started. Of course it sounds like he's having problems with the Peloponnese on the connection to Megalopolis. This is another issue and you need to see it. This relates to the energy adequacy of the visible horizon and the non-function of the units not with the large interconnection. Alas, if it were with the great, which will work much later, and if by then, we hope from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Colleague, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u96	I would like to conclude, Mr President, but I am asking for the Megalopolis from what you have heard, so I need some time. I want clean European responses, and prove that you have not broken up with the moment you came here and got involved in the systems. Prove that you have not ruined and that you respect the European institutional framework. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u97	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u98	Thank you. I cannot say that I have gone all over Greece, but between me and the Minister, and particularly the Minister, I think we have a visual picture, precisely, of what is happening in Crete. If we take both of them together, the Minister knows very well where he is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u99	Don't take a walk and Mr. Kegeroglou, because you and Mr. Hatzidakis won't be going to the Ministry any minute if you start walking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u100	So the Minister has a very clear knowledge of the problem. I, where I need to, go, as I go to western Macedonia, just to see and discuss locally, something that happened, and I'll go where I need to. I think the criteria I have developed in my first speech were clear, they were clear, they were thorough and there are the environmental conditions that will be laid down for the project, and it will be the environmental protection insurance policy, further to the assessment that has been carried out. I think I have nothing more to say. We will not be dissatisfied with new criteria or new ways of changing an assessment, which has been made in a transparent manner and arbitrary, changing, just because there has been a change of government. I mentioned the consequences. There are assurances about the underground cable, about the closure, about what will be there, what it will look and what it will not look and I think it is the safest way to do this work. You referred to your first question and to the financing of the project, which has been guaranteed. As you know about the first project, the small cable will normally go through the interface and will work next year. The new project has been auctioned, the tender for the cable contract on 5 August has been closed and the contract will normally have been made on 2 December. As far as the conversion stations are concerned, the competition was closed last week. The contract will become early next year and will proceed. It is necessary to interconnect the large cable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u101	No, it's illegal! Crete will react legitimately!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Kegeroglu, please. Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u103	It is necessary to move forward in order to provide energy supply for Crete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. The minutes of Wednesday 11 September 2019, Wednesday 18 September 2019, Thursday 19 September 2019, Friday 20 September 2019, Monday 23 September 2019, Thursday 26 September 2019, Friday 27 September 2019, Monday 30 September 2019 and Tuesday 1 October 2019, have been distributed and the House is asked if it validates them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u105	The minutes of Wednesday 11 September 2019, Wednesday 18 September 2019, Thursday 19 September 2019, Friday 20 September 2019, Monday 23 September 2019, Thursday 26 September 2019, Friday 27 September 2019, Monday 30 September 2019 and Tuesday 1 October 2019 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-08-S1-commons.u106	With the consent of the House at 12.21 p.m. the sitting on Monday 11 November 2019 at 18: 00, on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
