ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval 10-12-2019, the minutes of the Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs, 10-12-2019 of 10-12-2019 concerning the vote on the whole draft law were ratified by the Bureau: "Urgent arrangements for the competence of the Ministries of Health, Home Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs and other provisions"]] First, allow me to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 12 December 2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Evangelos Liakou to the Minister of State, Mr Gerapititi, on the subject: "A topical question about developments in Elefsina Shipyards". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 301/9-12-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "An answer to this question remains the question as to whether and when the loans voted on by the Labour Residence Organisation (OEC) will be implemented by capital funds with interest subsidy". 3. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis with reference to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Piraeus Bank opens its door to further redundancies for bank employees'. 4. The 314/10-12-2019 topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Releases to Piraeus Bank". 5. The 307/10-12-2019 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The release of forest land in the Heidari camps and the concession of buildings and public areas to the local authorities (OTA)". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 298/9-12-2019, a topical question by Congressman Carditsa of New Democracy Mrs.Asina Skondras to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Serious malfunction due to the secondment of the services of the Greek Farmers' Office of Thessaly". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 303-9-12-2019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Secure operation of the branch of the Centre for the Training and Restoration of Blinds in Thessaloniki (formerly School of Blinds) following the recent fire at its premises". 3. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis with reference to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘Is there finally a securitisation and sale of dues from the Centre for the Collection of Insurance Debts?’. 4. The 304/9-12-2019 topical question by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Announcement of a document 2016 on the employment of retired NAT at the Academies of Commercial Navy (AEN)". 5. The Question No 300/9-12-2019 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseys Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Accommodation for youth employment, extension of programme No. 11/2018". 6. The 306/9-12-2019 topical question by MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Haritsis, Minister for the Interior, on the subject: “Philovoimos”. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 315/10-12-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The representation of Greece in the Committee of Regions of the European Union (EU).(')'. 8. The 319/10-12-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Only LEADs, Parents, LEADs, families with children with disabilities more than four years of age and children of third families stay out of social dividends". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 1819/8-11-2019 by MP Argolidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Giannis Gioulas to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The transport and distribution of irrigation water from Anavalou networks to the Municipality of Ermionida, Prefecture of Argolida". Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to this House the following: The Minister for Finance submitted a draft law on 10-12-2019: ‘Support scheme for securitisations of credit institutions’. Mr Georgios Kamine also seeks permission from abroad for 16-12-2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Finally, MP Mr Alexiadis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 8-1-2020 to 10-1-2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Unique discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Accommodation of the exercise of the electoral right of voters outside the Greek territory and modification of the electoral procedure". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 3 December 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u5	The House therefore agreed. Before we move on to the rapporteurs, I would like to inform you that under Rule 72(1)(c) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure relating to roll-call voting, it will take place at the end of the roll-call vote on the principle, the individual articles, from 1 to 24, for which the intended majority of Article 51(4) of the Constitution - the two-thirds, i.e. the nominated article and the entire bill is required. This proposal for a roll-call vote is not what you may have used to, which is tabled with the signature of Members, but it is foreseen on a proposal from the President of this House, if he considers it necessary. And, obviously, the validity of a bill of such historic nature, I would say, and of institutional importance, must be ensured by establishing the two-thirds. We therefore need a roll-call vote on the articles that I have told you. That will be the end of the debate. The new Republic's rapporteur, Anna Mani - Papadimitriou, has the floor for 15 minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, should we also set the end of the sitting so that the Members will not be missed at the time of the vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u7	We cannot afford this, Mr President. We'll see the records and we'll set it up. Here, Mrs. Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament is today introducing an emblematic bill of paramount importance to the Greek people, whose vote will mark the passage to another era. It is a bill that facilitates the vote of Greeks abroad, a top issue for which we, the Members of this House, are given the historic opportunity to do what is self-evident and to restore an injustice that lasted decades in response to our moral and national duty. That is why it is a great honour for me to recommend it today on behalf of the Government of New Democracy. After all, our historic past dictates us to move in this direction, when a hundred and fifty-seven years ago, in 1862, Mr. Zaimis, Minister for the Interior, with special legislation, made sure that Greeks from abroad vote for the first time. It took us more than a hundred and fifty years to overcome any controversy and with understanding and sense of responsibility to find the golden intersection, so as to make it easier for Greeks abroad to participate in our country's political process. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] After all, the conditions for this step have matured, and Greece cannot be the exception, as in all twenty-eight Member States of the European Union only two of them do not regulate voting rights for citizens outside their territory, with our country, unfortunately, belonging to this sad minority. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, needs as much as ever in a very critical period of global Hellenism, our compatriots who left decades ago. They are those who, when necessary, defend our national interests where international public opinion is formed, which can be a force of foreign policy support, as they have a significant influence on being in many cases calculated electoral power in the countries in which they live. They are those who can financially support our country by contributing to the well-appointed development, those who managed to distinguish themselves in every sector and in their faces, are the ones who, although living decades abroad, keep the flag of Greece high and weep in the resurgence of our national anthem. But homeland also needs the thousands of young people who, in the years of the crisis of the last decade, have left massively for the purpose of seeking work. We didn't manage to keep these children in our homeland, and that's what they've been looking for. It is a youth with knowledge, intelligence, critically thinking, inclined for work and for life, and this youth observes us. We must show them that there is still hope in the country. We need these young people as before. And since vague announcements and good intentions are not enough, the first step to bring these children home closer is to give them the minimum, the right to codecision with us on the modulation of the election result. Moreover, the electoral right of Greeks abroad was constitutionally guaranteed in the Constitution of 1975 and also in that of 2001, without having been implemented, as the law is needed to be voted in favour by two parliamentarians, so that the constitutional provision is to date an empty letter. The new Republic has repeatedly tabled proposals for legislation in the past, but also proposals for legislation, without the necessary parliamentary majority being achieved. The President of the New Democracy and Prime Minister of the country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, loyal to his election commitment, raised the issue with the government's priorities and immediately started discussions with the political leaders. Discussions have resulted in the establishment of a intergroup committee, representing all the parties in Parliament, where, after adequate dialogue, a basic framework of agreement with four main axes was established. The position of the New Democracy, from the outset of this dialogue, was that all Greeks abroad must vote without exceptions and conditions, and indeed by letter vote. The Government did not make any reductions from its initial positions, but the other option was the deadlock and given the necessary majority of the two-member parliamentarians, as provided for in the Constitution, compromises were made, with the look at the great institutional aspect to be implemented. The first step towards the implementation of this agreement has recently been taken by this House, with the revision of Article 54 of the Constitution and the related addition of paragraph 4, with which constitutional provisions of today's draft law have been shielded. The second and decisive step will be to vote in favour of this draft law. The current regulation on the facilitation of the Greeks completes the framework for facilitating these voters and gives the principle of universality of voting, enshrined in Article 51 of the Constitution, an essential and dynamic dimension. The Greek state thus fulfils its constitutional duty, ensuring that universality is in fact guaranteed and constitutional provisions are given full and effective regulatory radiation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this bill, as it is now introduced into its final form, is the result of a fruitful dialogue, as this dialogue has also been developed at the meetings of the relevant committees. There have been issues on which different opinions have been expressed and discussions have been held, which, after compromises and concessions, have resulted in the specific provisions, as they have finally been formulated and introduced today. A crucial factor in the formulation of the final text was the hearing of the bodies, with the participation of the representatives of the family. The representatives of our foreign compatriots came to two meetings of the committees, expressed their views and heard the voice of the family. This draft is structured in two parts. The first is to facilitate the exercise of the electoral right of voters outside the Greek territory, in the national elections, in the European elections and in the course of a national referendum, and the second is to amend the electoral law for the election of MPs. The main axes of the first part, which incorporate the agreement of the Intergroup and the processing that took place in the committees are the following four: First, it is defined which of the Greeks abroad can exercise their electoral right at their home and under which conditions. Firstly, they must already be registered in the general electoral lists of the municipality of the Hellenic Republic and, in addition, they must be met cumulatively and the following two conditions: first, they must have a total of two years in Greece, during the last thirty-five years, irrespective of the time they leave. Acknowledgement of the two-year stay, which is not required to be continuous, will be demonstrated by public documents, in particular by a certificate of Greek school of each grade, a certificate of payment of insurance contributions or a certificate of military service. Secondly, they must have made a tax declaration, either in the current or the previous tax year. This condition is met by submitting only a simple tax declaration, namely by submitting only form E1, without having to have any assets and assets in Greece. It is particularly important that the submission of a tax declaration is not required for voters who have not completed the 30th year of their age, but provided that they have made a first-degree tax declaration in the current or the previous tax year. With this exception, Greeks who left abroad in the years of the crisis are given a substantial facility so that they can exercise their electoral right under the minimum conditions. The second axis is the way in which the electoral right is exercised. The permanent position of the New Democracy, but also, admittedly, other parties, was the establishment of a letter of vote, a request put forward by the representatives of the family. In the context of the necessary majority of the two hundred votes, however, the provision provides for the presence of the electorate in elections, to be set up in embassies, consulates or other voting places. Here too, it is very important that the Minister's commitment is to make every effort, in consultation with the states abroad, where Greeks live, so that, if necessary, other appropriate places will be provided to carry out this electoral process. The ultimate aim is for our compatriots to vote as close as possible to their homes and at the lowest possible financial burden and suffering. The third axis provides that the vote of the voters concerned will count equally on the overall election result and therefore also on the total distribution of seats. The fourth presupposes that foreign voters will vote on the party's dominance ballot, but without having the right to a crucifixion in the general parliamentary elections. However, in the European elections they will express a preference among the voters, in a manner comparable to the voters who exercise their right to vote within the country. At this point, it is particularly critical that the legislative improvement submitted by the expedited Ministry, according to which three of the fifteen members of each party's roll-call vote will come from the split, and one of these three candidates will be placed in the first three positions of the ballot. Thus, with the new regulation, an independent right to be elected for the Greeks of the diaspora is introduced, thus being met and analogously demand from the family and their representation is strengthened in the Greek Parliament. The other provisions of Part One describe how the electorate should register the special electoral lists abroad, the timing and the way in which the vote is held and other details. In particular, the request to register the voter will be made electronically, at a special portal of the Ministry of the Interior, which will be attached to the documents required, and the information available in public databases will be obtained automatically, with the consent of the elector. It also provides for the setting up of a Special Intergroup Committee, which is responsible, on the one hand, to consider objections to rejection decisions on requests for registration rejected and, on the other, to carry out sampling checks on those requests for registration. This regulation eliminates even the slightest concern about the validity and transparency of the whole procedure. The vote will take place between Wednesday and Saturday, before Sunday of the national elections, and will be completed in one day. The counting and announcement of the results will be carried out at the same time as that of the Greek territory, since the files are airbornely sent to Athens and specifically to the Central Bank of Foreign Electoral Elections at the Athens Court of Appeal, but have not been blocked. The second part of the bill attempts targeted interventions in the electoral law for Members' election, with the main aim of simplifying the procedure and aligning it with modern technological developments. Some of the basic innovations introduced are: the increase in the number of Members of the State from 12 to 15, by adjusting the number of other Members, the introduction of an electronic procedure for the submission of applications, the provision for compensation to members of the commissions, the obligation for legal representatives to transmit during the vote the number of votes cast, so that public opinion on the course of the electoral process is informed, the simplification of the procedure for resignation from posts which are a blocking of election, the replacement of the paper version of the electoral lists, which will now only be sent to a digital means of unique registration. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the result of agreement and cooperation between the parties. Finally, we have succeeded in finding common stumbling and the opportunity is given to establish a political consensus culture, a station in our parliamentary life. It is one of the few bills built into another logic, the logic of national understanding in the name of national unity. There is no excuse for his vote anymore. The attitude of each of us towards the bill will put us before our historical responsibility. And let us not forget that our country's history has taught us that unity is the way to overcome difficulties. So let us present today a strong message of unity to the Greeks of all the world that are watching us, by voting in favour of the bill with the greatest possible majority, in a critical and charged period for our national issues. Ladies and gentlemen, Victor Hugo said that "the world is Greece that is expanding". So I urge you today to overcome the party limits, to cross the border and to become the bridge that will unite the universal Hellenism with the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting from the top Western theory is being attended by forty-five students and students and four teachers from the 3rd Municipal School of Transition. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, be careful. I would like your consent from now on. Sixty-five Members have been registered. I figure they'll register around the eighty. We made a rough calculation. We have added the political leaders, who, in all certainty, do not have the Bureau - will speak - and, if not all, most of them - and we all know that no political leader keeps track of his time. Calculate one and a half hours or two. The suggestion made by the Bureau is that at 12 o'clock, even if some colleagues have not spoken and will not be able to speak, close the sitting and vote. Do I have your consent?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. The question of regulating the vote of Greeks abroad has been a constitutional requirement since 1975. Why has it not been arranged so far, and why do I ask this question at first? A prerequisite for approaching every national issue - and this is a national issue - is to deal with it in terms of honesty and not hypocrisy, because the necessary fronts are being built on this very basis. The truth is that none of the two parties, which were ruling alternately between themselves by 2015, did want to resolve the issue. In addition, an increased majority is foreseen only after the 2001 Constitutional Review. Why? Why are the parties that are today being cut off for the need to vote - and we agree with them - not to explain why they did not do so in the previous period? The answer is obvious. I refer to the criticism made by Evangelos Venizelos in the respective proposal for a Law of 2001 in the New Republic which had similar characteristics to the proposal originally tabled. Read what he says there about working the payroll, trying to become a game in internal party games. We are not like this, ladies and gentlemen. We are the only party that, when he came to the government, sought to solve the issue seriously and across the cross-party consensus. We have not only raised the question of the revision of Article 54 - we have put it, not you - but we have also anticipated the setting-up of a legislative committee, so that, with the participation of experts and on the basis of the proposals of the avenues, we can have the bill. The setting-up of that committee as provided for in Article 256 of Law 455/2018 was of general support. Apart from us and the ANELs - the then government majority - and the Communist Party of Greece as well as the Communist Party of Greece, with a tolerance of the Potami and a vote 'against', yours, gentlemen of the New Democracy. You, who today appear to be the protagonists of the vote on the motion for a resolution, are the ones who have not regulated this issue for for forty years and who, when it came to the opportunity to regulate it with a cross-party consensus, have taken the lead. And hypocrisy doesn't stop here. Your initial position was epic vote without criterion, generalised vote of Greeks abroad. And what did you tell us? That this proposal only relates to three hundred and fifty thousand registered on the electoral lists. National measures cannot be built on assumptions. I watch my expressions because I don't want to be acid. You knew that this figure is not accurate, not only because the New Democracy as a government in 2007 argued with the European Court of Justice, arguing to restrict it to what ends in the bill of voting facility, that voters abroad are three and a half million, but also because you know that on the basis of the Code of citizenship and the law of blood that it establishes, the potential voters, those who can take Greek citizenship and vote - because there is no intermediate stage, all Greeks, all who have Greek citizenship vote - amount to multiple millions. At the hearing we heard for eight million, only from one continent. Why, then, have you had to resort to this concealment of the truth? For the simple reason that there is no European experience and global country with a significant dispersion such as ours, which introduces such a generalised voting facility for the deceased. Those countries which have a significant dispersion such as us or a greater dispersion from us, such as Ireland, Cyprus, Israel, Armenia, are reaching an end which we have never adopted and completely excludes outside residents from voting, even when they are in the country. We obviously want the elected representatives to have a voice, a vote and a right to vote, but on the basis of and criteria for the democratic principle and European experience. The reason why the countries mentioned above do not introduce a generalised voting facility, as you are proposing, is as follows. It is obvious that when there is a multiple electorate outside the territory and the generalised voting facility was given to him, that would actually decide on elections. It would, in short, alter the will of the electorate made up of the country's permanent residents. For this reason, what did the European Court of Human Rights say? That this right is acceptable. I read you from the Sitaropoulos decision against Greece: "Taking into account the presumption that citizens who do not live within the territory are not affected so directly or constantly by the daily problems of their country and have less information about them, secondly, the close relationship between the right to vote in the parliamentary elections and that someone directly affected by the decisions of the political bodies elected in this way, and thirdly, the legitimate care of the legislature to restrict the influence of citizens living abroad in elections, which, while they are admittedly fundamental, are mainly those who live within the country". So in view of this, what is generalised, absolute European practice? Two systems prevail, weighted in one way or another. The first is the so-called closed representation system. They elect a number of their own representatives within regions that meet their permanent establishment. This is the system implemented by France, Portugal and Italy. That is, as I will tell you next, and what the National Committee on Human Rights and the Venice Committee, the competent institution of the Council of Europe and the Council of De-Democrat Hellenism, presided over when he had expressed his views. This was precisely the proposal that SYRIZA tabled in the Constitutional Review of Article 54, that is to say there should be up to five local elections, obviously after a census where representatives of our compatriots who live there would be elected, so that they do not only have the right to vote, which remains disabled if it is not accompanied by the right to vote. I read to you, in evidence of my claim that this is the consistent practice of the Council of Europe, but also what the institutions associated with our own country have asked for, what the Committee on Human Rights has proposed in a report which one of its authors was the colleague and fellow Minister, Mr Gerapitris, the Minister of State: 'Institution of representation in cases of a large number of non-national voters', obviously like our country,'recommends best practice, which defenses the consequences of the mass involvement of non-national voters in national elections, by recognising the latter's right to representation through a predetermined number of Members or senators'. And, as I said before, the Council of Greek Democrats had also proposed that they should elect their own representatives. You will find this in the CSCE Bureau report on the text of the working document 'Using the electoral right in the general parliamentary elections'. So that was the proposal that we tabled and we still consider it best today. A proposal was tabled by the Communist Party of Greece which also has the backing for European practice. But it is not usually followed by countries that have a great deal of dispersal like us. It is the choice of England, Germany, some Scandinavian countries, to introduce restrictions on the actual bond that the elector has in terms of facilitating the exercise of the right. We agreed to discuss on the basis of the proposal of the Communist Party of Greece. Why? Firstly, because we want a solution, and secondly, because it does not differ from our original conception, which wants the vote to be weighted in some way. Why? In order to respect the democratic principle, in order not to alter the will of the electorate of permanent residents. That was the'red line' we had set in the first place. The New Democracy has been strategically shifted in this respect, precisely because its initial position was different, contrary to the common European legal culture, and in fact contrary, as I have said, to the proposals of the Council. It established in the original version a generalized right to vote without a right to representation. Interestingly, the explanatory statement adopts our logic and demonstrates our claim for a strategic displacement of the position of the government party. I read you from the suggestion: "The restrictions put in the Constitutional Review on a proposal from the Communist Party of Greece, "as security disputes, aim to prevent any intervention on the election result to a sufficient degree", note the phrase "to alter the will of the electorate", our logic, "and this is because the total number of off-national Greeks lies on the basis of considerations as to whether it is legitimately legitimate to intervene decisively in the formation of the election result. These constitutional tolerable restrictions bring about a weighting of the result, once again a word that was criticised, as an anti-constitutional phrase, which I had used, by Mr Gerapititi, "which allows the exercise of the right by non-national voters, on the other hand, cannot alter the electoral behaviour of the voters in dominance". We have therefore come to the debate on this basis, because I repeat that we want to have the voices, votes and the right to be elected. We have tabled proposals for specific and written measures in a particularly rough draft law, which was unfair to the seriousness of the matter. Some of the initial shortcomings in the draft were covered in the Committee's discussions. There are still major problems, which I shall be addressing, but also legal cases, which the Scientific Service of the Parliament also points out. The original anti-constitutional provision for jurisdiction in the control of disputes in relation to the lists of public jurisdiction was corrected by the proper court, the administrative court, but the word “public jurisdiction” remained in law, as if there were voluntary jurisdiction in the administrative courts. I am referring to this as one of the examples of sloppyness in drafting the plan, but because my time is already running out, I am passing on to the essentials. What did we ask for in committee? Consist two things. One was the imprecise and transparency of the process, self-evident for anyone who respects democracy. The second is to grant an independent right to be elected to the migrants. Steps have been taken in both directions. There has been an ad hoc committee which, because there is no doubt in this respect in the report by the Scientific Office of the Parliament, please, Minister, confirm that it has a decisive responsibility to monitor the procedure. It was also partially accepted, not in the way we would like, but in any case as one step, that the members of parliament can elect their own representative by means of a charter of sovereignty, not on the patriotism of the parties, but on the basis of a concrete commitment. However, two serious issues remain, which we hope will be dealt with by the government at the end, precisely because they do not relate to any party feasibility but to the need to serve democracy and transparency and transparency and, in general, to the good running of the elections. One is the renewal of electoral lists. It is planned for a ten-year duration. We have no precedent in Greek law. And not only do we have no precedent, but 10 years of voting power means that the thirty-five years that we have agreed to be acceptable limiting...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Catrugale, you have to condense.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u12	Concentrate. Can you give me two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u13	I've already given you two and a half. Look at the watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u14	I'll be done. I'm on essentials. The conversion of the thirty-five years into forty-five years actually raises a question of questioning the real bond as a criterion of vote, as is a constitutional criterion set out in Article 54(4). Our second essential point is to give a binding assent to the intergroup committee agreed on the exercise of the minister's regulatory powers. It's a matter that's gonna be settled for the first time. The Constitution imposes consent. Two-thirds ask to vote for this law. The respective cross-party consents and transparency must be served by prior opinion. Let me point out that the Scientific Service of the Parliament on another article, but again on authorisation, Article 24, agrees with our observation that such generalized authorisations without prior commitment create problems of constitutionality in relation to Article 43 of the Constitution. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a moment when it can be historic, if we deal with responsibility, with respect for democracy and European legal culture, this issue. We in the European Parliament want to have a vote, a vote and a right to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u15	Well, close the documentary system. The people who signed the register have been signed. The latest news is as follows. There are eighty-seven speakers. Finally, I would like, despite the unanimous decision that we have made, to think about the parliamentary representatives of all the parties so that when colleagues start to speak, we can make it five minutes. But either the five minutes will be by the first speaker or it will not be at all. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't shout. You have parliamentary representatives. That's the part. If it were, I'd ask you. Well, at the end of Mrs Bakadima's speech, there will be the question from the Bureau and the parliamentary representatives to give the answer. Because it must be from the first speaker. We continue with Mrs. Evangelia Ligolis, a special buyer from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the last few days are the culmination of the debate over the last few months, after the collective effort to try once again as a political system, as political parties, as political persons with the role of the legislator, to withdraw to the extent of the circumstances and to resolve the issue of the vote by the Greek Democrats, within the framework of national duty alone. In recent months, it has been the continuation of our political system of fearful and inappropriate, chained to the mast of forgetting, so as not to give in to the sirens that he saw and felt that they were showing him the way, in fact one-way, to restore a great political injustice both according to law and morality. For many years he resisted and never succeeded in reaching the required number of two hundred that would give the legislative way out of the matter. As soon as the issue of the vote of the results came to the forefront, the Party Precision weighed again on fire. Additions, removals, multiplications and divisions became the real spaskhead, mainly of the system's self-progressive ones, which eventually led them to political neurosis, self-insulation and resuscitative cysts. How many of them are out of the city? How many will vote? What party will they choose? Will the election result really be altered with an impact on us? Did the lesser the better and safer? These are the questions that have prevailed in political thought, which have been expressed in the political speech, which have, in fact, finally shaped the positions of the parties. Somehow this has glorifiedly ended the long-standing secreto behind the "substantially" and the "but" that many of them contain, of course, in the relentless piece of legislation we are discussing today, but at least they have uncovered the true intentions and have witnessed the hiding of everyone. No one can hide behind the other nor behind all the excuses, from cetaceans, slogans or from risk scenarios and undermining by the electoral system, the national outcome, we have come to say even the cohesion of the nation. I would remind Mr Katrugalo that on 5-7-2016, to restore the truth alone, the independent authority of the National Commission for Human Rights intervened. You were then government and intervened and asked to include the electoral right of Greekism that you did not even think about putting it within your legislature. You were only interested in simply proportional and nothing else. So, that was your modeling machine. So today you cannot at least move the finger on this issue to us. The political time we are spending, ladies and gentlemen, not only is it not neutral but is shockingly dense with a storm of events every day, with great national issues on the ground, with our people waiting for solutions to its small and large daily lives. It's us and it's the world around us that's constantly changing. As much as changes scare, we cannot proceed unless we become part of them. We come from a horrific, well-established constitutional review, a review announced in 2016 by the SYRIZA - ANEL government, incomprehensibly incomprehensibly, in my view, celebrity. A festive review, they said. Negatively, the Government of New Democracy attempted to make use of communication. Was that true? It was an unadulterated, merciful, procedural procedure, with the exception of minimum exceptions, poorly understood consensual procedure. Nearly zero if Article 54 of the Constitution did not exist. Perhaps from the moment we can be proud of something that we collectively managed to take after the first step in this direction, which took place with the 2001 Constitutional Review and, of course, bears the seal of the PASOK Government. In relation to Article 54 of the Constitution, the parties made the necessary mutual retreats. All the same? Oh, no. Others less and more much less. Let me say from this step forward that we are, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that I feel that we have done most of the things. And I am not only referring to what has happened over the last two years with the intergroup committees, it is supposed, conciliation or even more back in the early 2000s with the constitutional review and the provision of the constitutional legislature for even a letter vote at that time - take note - so many years ago, eighteen years ago, which clearly brought the PASOK seal. I'm going back to the beginning of the early PASOK and the creation of the PAK. I am referring to the heavy historical legacy we carry in our ideological baggage which was formed in the late 1960s and early 1970s, when the then power suitors with tanks, EBA - ESSA, exiles and murders of political opponents kept Greece's wits in their dirty hands. I am referring to the time when our comrades and comrades were tracking the prospects of a modern, democratic, socially sensitive Greece from abroad, when the country was in the darkest days of recent history, with the members of the PAK operating in Germany, Italy, Sweden, Belgium, England, Canada and wherever they found suitable territory. Because it was an undeniable need for the relationships of power in the primary cavity, Greece, to change drastically. So the inhabited earth has become our home ever since. The inhabited earth became the home of a dragon of people who were dwarfed by high ideals since their real home was occupied. It is not, therefore, a reason for micro-policy that defines our Movement's attitude to facilitating the vote on the frustrations. They are reasons for history, they are reasons for political DNA that define the attitudes in what we say and what we do, in order to achieve our purpose, which is no other than the achievement of an absolutely organic political reconnection of universal Hellenism with domestic Hellenism, an organic reconnection policy that has nothing to do with "cutters", miserable bureaucratic restrictions, forward-to-back battles, "I said-touch" battles and all those miserable tactics in which a large portion of the local political system has become addicted in order to maintain its prerogatives. With these views, ladies and gentlemen, in the name of consensus, in the name of achieving the common goal, we have overcome any individual disagreements and have agreed, even in the name of a minimum, to the self-evident. To further institutionalise the vote of the non-state Greeks, to give voice and representation to the compatriots abroad, to the scientists of the recent Brain-Drain, to the communities of the Greeks at every corner of the earth, the Greeks and Greeks who massively left the country in the years of the economic crisis and who according to ELSTAT's figures reached the six hundred nine hundred and eighteen people only by 2015. It should also be noted that we are not taking the lead again today not in relation to the modern European states but even in relation to the early history of the Greek state. I would remind you that even in the 1862 elections they voted on the appointment of members of the Second National Assembly and of Greeks outside the country. So let's do the arithmetic, and let's find that it's been separating us almost a century and a half since. Today, again in an executive bill, a bill that should be part of the tightening relations between Greece and the people abroad, we avoid becoming rheumatists, avoid confrontation of European reality in the eyes, avoid synchronizing with the digital realities of the fourth industrial revolution. So what do we do? We are doing what we know best as a political system. We are once again hostages of political settlements, of 'yes', but of 'yes', of asterisks, of footnotes, of constant objections to the procedure. Why? In order to ultimately lose the substance, always covert behind high theory, behind supposedly volatile economics and a false stress allegedly about the functioning of our democracy, the distortion of the popular verdict, forgetting, of course, that the real political appeal for the functioning of democracy and the popular verdict is the same, the most essential, the most complete and unrestricted expression of all Greeks. So we are establishing today a cafacical bureaucratic process for obtaining the right to vote and not a concession, which is surely going to disappoint and discourage many people from making the request in question. Characteristic of the bill is the notorious "cutters". The democrats themselves came and listed them one by one: thirty-five years, PVO, together with two years that must be proved by documents, to obtain the right for Greeks to register on the special electoral lists abroad. Since the beginning of the relevant debate in the Change Movement we have been clear, with a straightforward look. We said that it is necessary now and today to activate the new constitutional provision and to pass the law allowing participation in the parliamentary elections of Greek foreign residents. We said that all Greeks must have the right to vote abroad if they are registered in the electoral registers and in the polls by updating their registration of local consulates and embassies of the Hellenic Republic. We have said and insisted now, today, because we can rethink it, ladies and gentlemen, and we can all decide it together by the time of the final vote, that we want their participation to be expressed by written vote, by means of procedures that will ensure its validity fully. Because it is really a pity once again not to do what the constitutional legislature has set out since 2001, which has been expressly mentioned at the time for the first time in the event of the vote being legislated. We have said and demanded, to the extent that we can, that the vote is counted on the overall national electoral result. One wonders when he hears that, but could it be different? Sure. There has been a great political issue, the biggest in our view, which we have been sincerely and unhypocritically called upon to close down to the committees. Our proposal was for the actual representation of the results to be ensured by the creation of a single region of Greek residents from abroad who will elect five to seven MPs, through the Special Votes of the parties, while the seats thus occupied will be removed from the State vote and from the other constituencies, while ensuring all the necessary legislative improvements that Evangelos Venizelos spoke about. So for the census, Evangelos Venizelos spoke about and not about the substance, as Mr Katrugalos read half. We recalled, therefore, that this is not a concession to the deportee Greeks, but a self-evident obligation to them, a clear duty of the Greek state. We were and we are still that party, which, with its proposals, seeks the widest possible participation of those responsible for the parliamentary elections, and we have asked for a distinct accusation in this House from the beginning. And here, of course, came the other big issue. When the government brought the law into consultation, we reacted immediately to the fact that it did not provide with a single arcade at all for the distinct representation of the migrants, nor even the obligability of their participation in the lists of States, all being left to the parties and at times good intentions. We called on the government and all the parties in Parliament to consider the enormous political responsibility of blindness. During the dialogue we tabled our alternative proposal for the participation of at least three representatives of the revenues in the State vote with an obligation to participate at least one of them in the first three positions of the ballot. Perhaps not intentionally, I think by omission, Mr Katrugalos did not mention who brought this proposal and who adopted it. The Minister adopted it. But the Change Movement has brought this proposal and we welcome it. Self-evidently and reflexively from the outset, we have been faced with the dynamism of the process by Acoustic Opposition, a no-accident major political and institutional error, which called for not taking account of the Greeks' vote abroad on the national outcome of the elections. There is an issue of interpretation of this attitude of the Vice-Population Officer. Why, then, does it not recognise the equivalence of vote? Category A: domestic voters, and category B: by Greek Democrats. It shall be reversed in all decisions and reports by international organisations and independent authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, we have all reached our conclusions. In the last few days a lot has been heard. Others and others less important, other commons and predictions, other interesting and originals. We'll say everything was useful. When you come into an open public dialogue, even the expected ones are useful. Some of them, however, were really memorable and some other shocking. What we need to remember is that it has been heard that the out-of-presidents are less interested in their homeland, that they have been cut off from it, that they are less familiar with everyday life and that some have come to say: "We have difficulty in our election programs to learn from the people." None of these arguments, in our view, are correct. The large number of those facilitated by this bill had to migrate from the country because of the recent economic crisis. So also knowledge and desire to participate have. The function of voting and political consequences is visible to everyone. They want to take the responsibility we refuse to give them, on the grounds that the out-of-democratics, automatically once they cross our borders, are turned into a kind of political minor. The misery, however, of those who insist on it reminds the old cocktails, who were always the new ones coming to fight the rabies until the end. We're not going to follow him. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Apart from the memorable - and I am ending, Mr President - there are some shocking things, such as the attitude and position of the proverbs in person to us, who experienced the three days of the committee, and we heard these people not by greek, but by very good Greeks talking about the nation and the homeland, to talk about how they feel about the institutions and to address us, saying 'Why, really, not bishop vote, why you are not making it easier for us and you are not giving us this right to all of us to participate'. And there the mouths of the antiquated factions remained hermetically. The presence was shocking, as was the letter of the frustrations. For what to say, for example, the Party of Officers, when on 5-7-2019, two days before the national elections, the people of the world sent a letter to the former Prime Minister Mr. Tsipras and they said "it was up to you to give all Greeks the right to vote abroad from their homes, without excuses, without delays, without loopholes". That was really fair and you didn't do it. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something important. This bill is a catalyst in order to become more widely known as one of us and how it embodies this. Here in plenary we are all judged by the political forces, the parties, the faces. We shall judge the daring and atmosphericity, our view of the citizens of the country, clearly and clearly, whether they live within or outside the borders. It will be judged who likes to hide behind political lizards, who is dealing with a pure front, even with this almost fearful legislative initiative, an initiative that we obviously support, but knowing that it is not enough. Our view is that the citizens have always been, above all, benefactors and not just investors. The facilitation of voting in the offshore Greeks is a crucial tool for the return of Greece to the right path. That is why we must, as a political system, give this right and we must.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u17	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u18	I shall conclude, Mr President. Today we are living on a historic day, no matter how much the commercial issues of topical and urgent importance I see it swallowed. We can offer "festive or mar" to all the offender Greek patriots. Today we can offer them "the smoked deceased of Ithaca". And why today? Because today he pleads for the historic universe, ladies and gentlemen, because, like today, on 11 December 1963, the great George Seferis, during the award of Nobel to his face, said: "I am going to a small country, a stone mud in the Mediterranean, which has no good despite the struggle of the people, the sea and the light of the sun. Traditional, love for humanity, rule of justice. In this ever-closing world, each one of us needs everyone else. We need to find the man wherever he is, because the word man is the one that ruined the monsters. And we have many monsters to destroy. So let us consider Oedipus' response." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and three educational sessions from the 4th General School of Halkidous. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said just now by Mr Kaklamani - and because we have to do so from the outset - if Parliamentary representatives have reached agreement on Members' speaking time. Since the first time it has been said that it should be confined to five minutes, because eighty-seven Members have been registered and therefore, so that there is no injustice from the means of limiting Members, I am still waiting for you to consult each other, so that those who speak first can adapt their speech to five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u20	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u21	That is the proposal, so as to be able to speak as many colleagues as possible. I don't know if you're ready...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, the rapporteurs must conclude afterward.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u23	First of all, I have to start applying this time from the first speaker. The first speaker should now know that it is five minutes. If we say so, when the rapporteurs are finished, then the first will not be searched in his papers how to restrict it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u24	We still have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u25	I am therefore waiting for the end of Mr Gioka's speech, which is called in Stepma, as a special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece. At the end of your speech, you must tell me whether time will be the one and therefore not all Members will speak or be confined to five minutes to achieve the objective we want. Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first moment the JRC has come to this debate with clear positions, with a coherent and comprehensive proposal which, in our opinion, has been broadly accepted, given that the criteria it sets out are very much in line with what is happening in international practice, are in line with the common sense. We have dealt with the issue of the vote of Greeks abroad without regularity, with no purpose and with the aim of finding a solution that will really facilitate Greeks who live and work abroad or who have ties with the country, to exercise their electoral right from the place of residence, especially those young people and young people who left the years of the crisis and the monuments. And when we say they are gone, we want to repeat that the governments have driven them out with their policy, because neither immigration nor refugee is a natural phenomenon. Some who are making koruna today in favour of impoverished people should first make self-criticism that with their politics they have banished all of this world over the past few years abroad. We have and have had the opportunity to look into this world, because the JRC is not one of those political forces responsible for their policy that this world has been found abroad. Governments are responsible for all the previous years for leaving, for not returning, as is also responsible for the fact that a number of problems faced by Greek immigrants, who have to deal with education, with tax issues, with other issues, are not only perpetuating, but also increasing over time. It is also the responsibility of these political forces who have ruled in previous years that, although they have had the opportunity, they have not regulated the issue of the vote on the revenues, because then it has not contributed to competition between the former two-partyism, the New Democracy and the PASOK. From this point of view, the facilitation of the rights to remain in their place of residence should not in any way serve as a laundry of responsibility for these political forces and for those governments which have not only been responsible for the migration of these people, in particular in recent years but also in the past, which have also been responsible for a number of issues - problems which concern them, problems which have been recorded many times in the unanimous conclusions of the Committee on the Election of the Greek Parliament, but problems which remain unresolved, unresolved, at the responsibility of all governments. As a JRC, we have proposed a solution which, on the one hand, will facilitate the exercise of the electoral right, but, on the other hand, will prevent the electorate from being changed by voters who, perhaps, have no knowledge of the Greek reality, have no real and substantial links with the country and, above all, - and, in our opinion, this is the most important one - they will not suffer the consequences of any political choices. And here is a basic question: was there a risk of the electorate being altered? Unfortunately, there was and is because in Greek citizenship law there is still a predominant anachronistic blood law, which no party, other than the JRC, raises no question of immediate change. This law results in those who even have a very distant Greek origin - it is enough for a distant ancestor - to be able to acquire Greek citizenship. This acquisition of citizenship also automatically involves listing on the electoral lists and therefore the right to vote for many more thousands, which may now not be on the electoral lists, but may be registered in the future. These people, although they come from Greece, although they love Greece - no one disputes this - but because of their long stay abroad - most may have been born abroad, they may have been descendants of old immigrants - they have objectively integrated into the societies of these countries, they have linked their lives and their future to these societies and most importantly are that they form a criterion and a political conscience based on reality and developments in these countries. We asked for a hearing of bodies why, although in the European elections, there was the possibility of voting on all the frauds in the countries of the European Union, it was used by a limited number of countries. Do you know what the answer was? It's typical. The answer is that, for example, in Germany they preferred to take part in the German European elections instead of the Greek European elections. This is a characteristic example of the fact that these people objectively - I am not saying whether it is right or wrong, it is objective and reasonable - have linked their lives to developments in another country. That is why - we say again - there had to be criteria to stop this anachronism in the law of citizenship, which today allows one to enter and acquire the Greek nationality, to have the right to vote, because this is automatic and Mr. The original proposals of all other parties, regardless of individual differences, were based on this law of blood. The New Democracy, KINAL, the Greek Solution certainly supports - they say it - that everyone should vote regardless of whether it is a second, third, fourth generation. The same goes for Mera25 for the second, third, fourth generation to vote on the basis of this right of blood. However, the original proposal of the SYRIZA, which was tabled in the Constitutional Review and developed by Mr Katrugalos before, was based to some extent on this law of citizenship, even though this concerned a limited number of MPs and was not counted on the electoral correlation. However, it opened up a dangerous ferry and, indeed, granted this right with a single vote which is the definition of deculturalism, which underestimates the social and political differences that exist within the same family and cultivates the view that homosexuality should be represented as such in the Greek Parliament, and we believe that these people who have ties are part of the Greek people, with the problems and difficulties that the Greek people themselves have and, from this point of view, must be represented. The JRC's proposal had three main axes. The first axis was precisely that, the existence of real economic and social ties and not just of a mental bond that may exist, but it is not enough. There must be the active relationship between the citizen and the state, which even at the heart of the urban perception of the right to vote, there is this issue. These real ties had to be sort of captured. It should be borne in mind, in other words, that anyone with his vote will determine matters relating to health, education, taxation and political developments must also have the effect of these political choices. This was objectively only at the level of the tax liabilities it could somehow be established. And here we are not talking about the right to be granted, because there is this distortion, we are not talking about the five-cosommen and three-cosommen of ancient Athens, here we are talking about the certification of real ties for the exercise of the electoral right from the place of residence. The second axis was the existence of a maximum time absence from the country or vice versa, of a minimum presence time in the country. When we talk about the thirty-five years, we are not talking about the years of absence from Greece, because someone may have left forty or forty-five years ago. We are talking about the thirty-five years, within which a limit must also be established for two years. That's thirty-five years. Here, too, there was this problem, and that condition was raised. What was the problem? That the Greek state had never done a census of how many Greeks live abroad and when these people left. There is no such thing, despite the fact that we as a JRC on similar intergroup committees previously called for the census to exist. This is not even what the PASOK and the New Democracy governments have been able to do. Not even the minimum, the census of how many live abroad, and when these people left. The third axis we have set was the personal presence in foreign elections, which also guarantees the validity of the vote. But that's not all. It is not just the question of the validity of the vote. It guarantees the essential political participation of these people in an electoral process against all these modern theories of digital and electronic democracy, which have become very fashionable in recent years and in all the parties. But participation in an election process, participation in a party, participation in even a union cannot be a button, making a like or mailing an envelope. Participation means a debate, a participation, a controversy, and that cannot be done in terms of letters or electronic votes, and all these so-called moderns that have been launched in recent years, and wherever they have been implemented, have not improved the quality of democracy. We do not, for example, envy the Republic of the United States of America, which does not actually vote, elects not even 20% of the president. Finally, we stressed the need for these criteria to be shielded in constitutional terms. We believe that this to some extent has been achieved by adding a paragraph to Article 54 in the context of the latest constitutional review. It remains in the explanatory statement here that we are talking about an interpretative statement. It's not an interpretative statement. It is a constitutional provision added by the latest constitutional revision and must be corrected. This JRC proposal was not some kind of invention or invention. It stems from international practice and the legislation of other countries, which some here systematically ignore. KINAL spokesman for the barriers, for the criteria, etc., but this is international practice! All the countries you are referring to other issues, in order to implement anti-grassroots measures, etc, are applying such criteria. But you are only accidentally ignoring it with regard to the criteria that need to be taken into account for the vote on the falsifications. Germany, Great Britain, the United States of America for the vote of their own judges, which in some cases are even more stringent than the criteria laid down in this draft law, apart from the fact that there are countries such as Israel, such as Ireland, which for good reasons totally forbid the vote of their own in the countries of residence. These criteria also result from the consistent case-law of the European Court of Human Rights. It was mentioned before the Sitaropoulos case in the arguments developed by the New Democracy Government itself at the time. But there are other cases. There is the Melnichenko case where it says that the possibility of exclusion of those not resident in the State is justified when, for example, a national resident in the State is not directly affected by the actions of the political organs that he is required to elect and that in general he is not so directly or constantly affected by the daily problems of the country. So here are the criteria set out in this draft law. Will there be some injustices, that is to say, staying out of regulation, even though they have real ties with the country? Yes, there may be. In some cases, however, this injustice is much less than the injustice that would have existed if such criteria were not met. Why think about what a climate would also be against those who themselves, if, in marginal situations, elections were judged by people who have nothing to do with the country and how much this would undermine the whole process and fuel dangerously 'internal and external'! This is avoided by setting specific criteria. As far as the JRC is concerned, the fact that we operate on the basis of principles shows - we have brought it to the committee as an example - and from the following: there is a category of fraud, with which our party has strong ties, blood ties. They're political refugees, they're their descendants, because most of them have died. With the proposal we made, the majority of these people are left out! But we have consciously made this choice because we do not operate on purpose or on micro-party criteria. We believe that the draft law tabled in this House today incorporates basic criteria that we have set ourselves, contrary to the draft law that had entered into the consultation. What had been consulted, in our view, has had serious problems. For example, as regards tax obligations, only provided for the possession of VAT, and today a tax declaration, etc., is provided for. Today's bill also provides for certification by public documents, while what was put in the consultation was talking about certification by every appropriate instrument, which could be what it is, and also provides that registration will take place for a period of time and that, after that time, we agree to be the most limited one - it will be re-checked on the criteria for whether there is a fulfilment after a period of time. We think there should be further improvements. I have already referred to the explanatory statement on Article 54. We raised the question of ministerial decisions. First of all, some ministerial decisions do not even have to be made. For example, there is provision for a ministerial decision, which is also noted by the House's Scientific Service, for the possibility of submitting documents to the consular authorities. This could exist as a provision in the law, in particular in certain cases below 30, which do not have access to the TAXIS system. However, since we are talking about a new procedure, with many problems which can arise in the future, there can be no general authorisation for the Minister to resolve these issues, but this should also have the agreement of a committee of Parliament on the basis of 2/3, so that the constitutional provision, which also exists for the 2/3, can also be served. I shall now conclude, Mr President. Since yesterday - I imagine that this is going to happen today - national consensus and national consensus, and on the occasion of the Foreign Policy Council and on the occasion of today's debate, we want to make that clear. Folkness from us does not exist in a policy in general, aimed at the Greek people, in a policy that prosecutes workers, students abroad, in a policy that touches the interest of the Greek people, the sovereign rights of the country in NATO-type alliances, the European Union, the United States and so on. The way out is overthrowing this policy and Greek immigrants abroad have every interest in fighting in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and two educational sessions from the 4th General High School of Chalkida (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It is also known in this House that from the top Western theories they attend the meeting, since they participated in the educational program "The Workshop of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, eighteen students and students and three teachers attending the 3rd Arsaceo Municipal School of Psychology. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before we move on to the next speaker, a special speaker, I would like to tell you the final proposal, which I put under your approval. After consulting with the parliamentary representatives, the final proposal is this: the first six, who are one per party, to speak for seven minutes, because it is one of each parliamentary group, so that in this time - I have already instructed the parliamentary groups to inform their Members that the rest of the time will be five minutes - to adjust the placements. So I read the first six names of colleagues. It is Mr. Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy, Mrs.Theodora Avgeris from SYRIZA, Mr. George Fragidis from the Change Movement, Mr.Ioannis Delis from the KKE, Mr. Konstantinos Heitas from the Greek Solution and Mrs. Maria Apatzides from Mera25. I repeat that they will have seven minutes, while all the next five minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u28	The House unanimously agreed. The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Antonios Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it was certain that the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Giokas, who is an excellent politician, would conclude with the phrase that the national consensus on the JRC does not exist even at these difficult times in our country, as does the ombudsman for proving citizenship. I have to ask him at some point - and he will answer us because he is a serious man - what is there for Hellenism after all? Today, if the three hundred Members of Parliament were candidates for exposure to the pan-Hellenic examinations, it would be certain that we would get under the base. Why? I'll explain. Because there is a bill, which concerns the facilitation - I say exactly the same thing as the title of the bill of the Ministry of Home Affairs - the exercise of the electoral right of voters who are outside Greek territory. So I wanted to ask: Are we happy with this bill, which is the product of a two-party, extortionist dilemma, we are pleased with this bill which is coming to facilitate the constitutionally regulated vote? Be careful, we do not give the right to vote to the expatriates, but it is constitutionally guaranteed. So what are we here to do? Let's make it easier for them. If, then, you believe that we are making it easier for them, you do not have, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, to read the letters, which have been sent by secular associations, by bodies, but also to hear, if you have the opportunity, those who have represented the semesters and the bodies in our committees. The Minister, Mr Theodorikos, has come to apologise as well as the special speaker of Mr Giokas, as well. Yes, sir. The Minister has apologized three times. If I'm wrong somewhere, Minister, you can fix me. Three times you've been apologized! And what did he say? That we are sorry, but that was not our plan. What we brought was an extortion product. Why was it an extortion product? For the Communist Party of Greece has put such security controls so that more than 85% of these Greeks, the real Greeks, who have been raising, for years now, the burden of Greece on their back, but also within their souls, will not be able to execute their electoral right. Leaving here, we will all be pleased, because even the SYRIZA gentlemen - and I see in front of me Mr Katrugalo, whom I have said before - are responsible for this situation, because if they had agreed at the outset, there would not be the problem of the votes of the Communist Party of Greece, who are coming to tell us that they do not unite nationally. Because obviously, they don't feel so much Greek patriots. Obviously!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u30	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u31	Don't sell me Jesus' letters for... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u32	Calm down, Mr. Palphie! When your time comes, you'll talk. I heard Mr. Gioka.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u33	They're all patriots!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u34	Oh, our president's here, too. Mr President, it seems he saw you and that is why he said so. Let us now come seriously, because our homeland is in danger, ladies and gentlemen. Those of you who have not understood - Mr Scandalides, I am also addressing you, who are looking at me now - what is happening at the moment, I would like to say that I am quite concerned. To be worried enough, it means there's a huge problem. There's a huge problem! Our area is on fire. It is incomprehensible what has happened over the last ten years in our country with the Memorandum Governments and the Troika Smarts, who have removed us from the right to have powerful Armed Forces. They're incomprehensible! I'll see you on Friday, of course, in the Ministry of Defence's bill on armaments. It is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, that there are now Greeks who say that there is no national unity. There must be national unity. And if they don't want to, they have to give her up. We'll get out of here and we'll all be happy, Minister. The media will come out and they will say "bravos and three-cos have consented..." - because SYRIZA will vote in the first place - "... for the vote of the dismissals". But the vote of the results is constitutionally regulated. Is that a bill that comes? Oh, no. It is the product of a bipartite, tripartite dollar, which blackmails - because it is brutal blackmail - the vote of two hundred. We, ladies and gentlemen, could not vote for this bill, but we put too much water into our wine. I tell you sincerely, because the proposal was in our programme from the beginning. In fact, if you wish, I have part of the letters here and I am very pleased and concerned, I would say, when a number of representatives of operators congratulated me on leaving. And I would also like to convey to Mr Velopoulos their warmest thanks, because we were the only party that agreed - look out! - in the four main points at which these people cannot vote, they do not want to exist. Read. I have the letters here. If you want, I'll give them to you. If you wish, ask your own colleagues who were in the committees. No one, but nobody agreed. Then what dialogue did they call on them to do? Why would they have a dialogue with us? Was there any reason for the other one to get out of town, come from the United States or from Sweden or Germany to talk about three or four minutes and say, "Lords, do you betray us"? And Mr Giokas went out - here is Mr Giokas - and he was apologised by saying 'You know, we did it for that reason...' what he said today. The Minister also came out three times and said "we are not to blame, we are to be blackmailed". It's true you've been blackmailed, Minister. All right, you didn't say the word 'extorted', but you said you had to. Yes or no? Yeah, well, you had to. That's the point. You'll forgive me, because sometimes I raise the tons, because I get the blood on my head. We cannot say that we are still looking for citizenship and it is not the 'hormon'. This is not the case, and that is why the Greek solution cannot be blamed. It can't be done! Unless we want all the natives to make them native and leave where we're native. It's not possible, he says, to verify if it's a third generation, a second generation, a fourth generation of blood. Why can't he? Why isn't he a Greek? Then who's Greek? Now, if anything happens in our country in the next few years, we should ask for their help - and not just - to provide money for the National Defence Fund that you have squandered and done nothing. As I said in committee, the Prime Ministers and the Defence Ministers of the last ten years should have done a pound of what they are hearing. Harakiri should have done it! I can't say anything else. Harakiri! It's unbelievable! If we were in Japan, they would have done that too! And then we need diplomacy. What diplomacy do we want? Diplomacy is the law of the mighty. International law, says, just yesterday, the ambassador of Germany, your friend. Because if we say the Germans are not our friends, it's a mess in here. The President said so the day before yesterday and you were close to eating him. Delete, he says. Why would it be deleted? The ambassador of Germany yesterday. What did he say? "Yes, Greece's problem exists, unfortunately, after the agreement." So the Libyan-Turkey agreement is acceptable. Sustained! And by the UN it is acceptable, ladies and gentlemen, because it has been received. Let me see what we're going to do in forty days who have a right. But that's what I'll see you on Friday, first God! The Greek Solution, ladies and gentlemen, was always clear from the beginning with one thing: first Greece and first the Greeks, where there is a Greek dissident of the earth. There is not what the community says from Paris. Ladies and gentlemen, being Greek abroad does not automatically make you 'American'. Do you want me to read you any more of this? You know it, and you're making the sucker. Why? To get the two, but it's nobody else's fault, it's because of the gentlemen of SYRIZA. After destroying Greece for four and a half years, they now came to say 'no, at first we do not do it because there are reasons'. No reason at all. Today, they will vote and say a song and we will all go out and say "bravo, national consensus". Good! Who told you, ladies and gentlemen, that three things at the same time must have someone to vote from abroad? Here there are people who were born, raised abroad, their parents left for a better life, to find jobs, to raise their families. Thirty-five years, in fact, with two years of stay. Yes, sir. I mean, that's plus. I asked the Minister, who promised he would. But I don't see it, Minister. Two years of stay we said it'd be cumulative. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u35	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u36	We must give this clarification, Minister, because there is no such clarification. At the moment, we are being called and asked 'how will it turn out that I was two years?' And you said that two years, if he came in every summer three months cumulatively and proved this thing out of his passport, you would. So bring it, see it, and do it! At least, these people can lighten up by what. We've got the case with the VFD. Why a copy of a tax register? So in a seventeen-year-old at the place he votes for, or whoever goes to vote, we ask for a copy of a tax register? Where does that come from? There are people who have not come to Greece thirty-five years, but have assets in Greece, submit tax declarations to Greece. What can we do now? They couldn't come. And they're out of the question. After the big issue, which was raised by everyone: Writing. "What facilitation are you doing to us?" they say, "when I am a hundred twenty, a hundred, a hundred, two hundred kilometres from the consulate or from the embassy, and I cannot go, what is the facility that you make me?" E-vote! We can't, you say, yet. Why can't we? We'll see about that, too. So the letter vote is certain vote, it could be done. Then there comes a man from abroad in Greece during the elections. It is here, it is written on special electoral lists and it cannot vote. Why can't that be done to the hetero-people? With a simple responsible statement, signed by the election representative that he has voted and has no right to vote elsewhere. So that is a solution too. These simple things the Greek Solution says, the very simple, but logically. And you know, we didn't agree - I don't think - nor are we one of those who received most of the votes from the foreigners, we weren't. So we hadn't contacted them. What we have said to the committee, what we called for as a party - and we had it in our programme - exactly the same thing these people say, as if we were pre-conscientious. So it's not real, it's very reasonable. In order not to abuse any more time, I would like to say this: we absolutely must - in our view, even at the last minute - see, Minister, this issue with thirty-five years and two years, look at the issue of VAT. The AFM. It's utopian, because you won't have an ATM to rule him out. Finally, on Rule 24 - which we insist on - because you said it would be today - the President of Parliament said so - we have tabled an amendment. This amendment is nothing more than a facility for subsequent governments, so that they do not look again for this blackmail dilemma of two hundred votes. So what do we say? That it will be possible with a simple presidential decree to change or add something. In other words, we want to add the letter of vote, so that we do not need the consent of two hundred Members from the outset again. It is constitutional, it is not unconstitutional and I think it is something we could do, because the problems of this law will be looked at in practice and there will be too much. We have said that we are voting on the bill at first, some articles will be voted on by putting too much water on our wine - too much water! - because we wanted this debate to take place, to hear it from all over the world, who and what party have positions that make it easier - not allow it to be a constitutional right guaranteed - the Greeks, the Greeks, who is on the other side of the Atlantic, in Sweden, Germany and France to do his duty towards his country, in his country that loves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being followed by the top Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-three editors from the Missile Firefighting School of the Firefighting Academy, accompanied by the Commander of the Firefighting Academy, Captain Damoulaki Emmanuel and two teachers. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Finish with the special manager of Mera25 Mr. Fotini Bakadima. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion is essentially divided into two parts. The first concerns the vote on the vote and the second amends the existing provisions relating to the electoral procedure. The request to facilitate the exercise of the electoral right of Greeks who live abroad is consistent and needs to be met. As Mera25, recognizing the need and feeling the pain of the deceased, as well as their desire to have an active role in the political activities of our country, we tabled our own integrated proposal, which solved the issue of the election, as well as of the elected citizen, for our fellow citizens who live outside the Greek territory. The main elements of this proposal were the separation of the recent immigrants, people, who had to leave in the years of the crisis - schematically from 2010 onwards - from those who have been permanently living abroad for twenty, thirty or more years. For these two categories, we have proposed the following: firstly, recent immigrants can vote from their home place for the territory they belonged to before they left Greece. Our fellow citizens who live, on the other hand, for years outside, to be able to vote for candidates for the local elections that should be created, Australia, New Zealand, North America and others. In this way they would be able to send to the Greek Parliament people who know and achieve a dual goal, on the one hand, the Greek Parliament would have the voice of the offenders through elected representatives of the family and, on the other, the links between the deportees and Greece would be further strengthened. Unfortunately, despite the initial positive attitude to co-operation with which we came to the meetings of the intergroup set up under the relevant Minister for the Interior, we were unable to reach a final agreement, since there are several points in the draft law - thorns, which, even after the legislative improvements, do not allow us to do anything else, rather than vote against the bill at first. Let me explain why. First of all, the bill provides for the possibility of voting from the place of residence, with the vote counting the final result, but without any possibility of crossing the national elections. Our non-national fellow citizens will only be able to vote for a list of sovereigns, namely only a party, without selecting specific representatives. This creates an unequal category of voters with reduced voting rights. It goes on to say that the Ministry facilitates the exercise of the election, while in essence and practically we deprive our fellow citizens of a right they retain if they finally choose to come to Greece to vote. We are therefore saying that we are facilitating them by exchanging the possibility of voting from their place of residence in exchange for crusade. By selecting the prestige list, Greeks abroad will be the only Greeks who will not have the right to choose MPs who, as I said before, retain if they return to our country to vote. With the government proposal they will only vote for a party, which introduces an incomprehensible state of discrimination and inequality between and outside Greece. Indeed, it is worth noting that, in the European elections, the voters retain the right to crusade, since they are in a country of the European Union, and in the event of a referendum, they have the same rights as the voters in existence. This draft law, in accordance with the provisions of Article 2, lays down the two basic conditions to be met in order to enable it to be placed on the special electoral lists. These are the following: first, a proven two-year presence in the country over the last thirty-five years, a presence that can function cumulatively, and, second, a submission of E1, E2, E3 or E9, in the current or previous tax year. As a PARTA25, we consider it unacceptable that the possession of property should be linked to the right to vote. Also, if a person has made a zero tax statement, we still have not received an answer whether or not he can finally vote. The same article provides that the depopulation will remain on the lists for ten years, without any provision for what will happen after them and how the list will be updated. At the same time, if one of the out-of-democratics actually completes the process and registers on the special electoral lists and happens to be found in Greece on the day of the elections, he will only be able to vote if he or she goes on to remove it from the special lists. Article 4 sets out how to certify the two-year stay, which is the certificate of attendance at a school in Greece, the fulfilment of a military service or the payment of insurance contributions to the country. We believe that it is declarable that the right to vote should be linked to the obligation to work, and it is also unacceptable that the Minister in question should be allowed to modify these criteria, according to what will work for the benefit of his party. Moving on to Article 7, we have the prediction that the minimum number of foreign elections is forty, and we can only ask ourselves whether there will be a provision if there are fewer than 40 Greeks living in the area, but yet they still want to vote. Article 10 provides that emigrants will only be offered sovereign lists, turning them into second-class voters. We cannot attempt to promote, as an incentive to exercise the democratic right to vote, a cut in that, by adopting this only alternative to voting on the rule of law. Article 12 is a reasonable regulation of the electoral law, but it accompanies the fact that non-Greek Greeks will only be able to vote for a sovereign vote, although in the end, the election of representatives will depend on the overall percentage that a party will receive, taking into account its percentage within and outside Greece. The second part of the bill contains mainly provisions aimed at facilitating the electoral process and articles which are mostly procedural, seeking to harmonise the electoral procedure with technological developments, as well as simplify the procedures involved. The main innovations it introduces are the creation of an electronic portal for the registration of candidates, which will replace the current performance process with a judicial curator, as well as the proclamation at a public meeting from Section I of the Ice Bay, which will cover the proclamation of combinations of parties, coalitions, collaborative parties, independent and individual candidates. Article 26 abolishes the distinction between a register of males and a budget, creating a new civic register, while Article 27 minimizes the deadline for declaring emblems and names and highlights the obligation of the Ministry of Interior to post candidates on its website. Next, Article 28 proceeds to shorten the deadlines for the resolution of any dispute, at the same time removing any risk of the smooth holding of the elections. Article 29 provides for a nomination declaration via the electronic portal of candidates, while Article 30 describes the procedure for accessing it. Article 31 lays down the amount of the electoral offender by rounding it up to EUR 150. As MERA25, we are against any financial payment for the exercise of the right to vote, so we shall vote against it. In Article 32, following a legislative improvement, it is foreseen that one fifth of the candidates for a party's vote should be covered by emigrants, at least one of whom should be placed in one of the first three posts. With this provision, the parties are obliged to place five Greeks abroad on their top roll-calls, with one potentially in a election position. The provision in itself is not a negative one, but it is a long way from the analogy, which was a pillar of our own proposal, according to which the seats that Members of the constituencies of Greek electorate would have been a function of the registered voters in each of them. Article 33 goes hand in hand with Article 36, which defines the extension of the rule of law, of the twelve people who now have 15. As MERA25, we are opposed to the concept of the rule of law in itself, as we have mentioned in detail in our election programme. Article 28 provides for a daily allowance to be paid to the members of the committee of inquiry, a provision which we undoubtedly consider to be positive, as it will solve the problem of the non-commissioning of the committees to carry out their duties on the day of the elections. While Rule 39, which we also consider to be positive, extends the closure of the appointment of taxing committees and to former Members of Parliament, members of government, etc. Article 41 lays down the declaration of alternate Members, who will no longer be made by the competent Court of First Instance but by the Marios Ice. Subsequently, Article 42 extends the framework of persons who can perform and communicate, adding officials of municipal police and municipal officials to them. The provisions of Article 43 give heterodists, who wish to exercise their electoral right at their place of residence, the opportunity to apply for it through an electronic request, thus greatly reducing the bureaucracy that has been in force so far. Ladies and gentlemen, the out-of-presidents are close to Greece. They are following developments, they are learning about the current situation, they are part of the country and ambassadors from abroad, so we must make it easier for them to exercise their rights established by the Constitution. We must make it easier for them to vote from their place of residence, but it is our duty to do so, taking the real defence of their rights and not trying to convince them that we are helping them. Unfortunately, this draft law deprives them of a fundamental right, that of crusade, making second-class voters on the altar of voting at the place of residence. At the same time, it is being promoted as an extra facilitator to join the prestige ballot, by trying to side with the fact that, now, a candidate can be a candidate to any party he wishes, whether in the dominance ballot or in a region. So we don't give them anything new, there's just going to be a communication use of a right that already exists. At the same time, we must recognise all the positive elements which emerged from the process of the intergroup meeting, starting with the addition to Article 54 of the Constitution, so as to allow the future creation of the local elections, which is a central point of our own proposal. We continue with the use of the TAXISNET platform to declare registration in the special lists, which we have recognised as suitable for such use. I could also not leave the government's original thoughts behind for a dictatorial vote, since we from the outset felt that it was an insolvent solution, due to the lack - in the current period of time - of the necessary safeguards to safeguard confidentiality and the inequitable nature of the vote. Mer25 produced an integrated proposal, which is far from the appropriate governmental one, which ensured both the right to vote and the right to stand for Greek citizens in a proportionate and fair manner. That is why, as I have already said, we cannot, in principle, vote against the bill, as well as all the provisions that are increasing, rather than solving the problem, while at the same time supporting articles which regulate procedural matters in a positive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u39	We are now entering the list of speakers. The first is Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the possibility of Greeks living abroad to exercise their electoral right, although self-evident, was neither easy nor given. In order to get to where we are today, we have had persistence and patience, excesses and retreat. We understand the positions of all those who expected something more bold, more advanced, to be able to vote even more of our compatriots, so that the natural presence in a polling centre does not need or so that they can vote in special constituencies. I would like to tell them, however, that precisely this pursuit of a solution which would satisfy everyone was one of the reasons why, for decades, progress on this issue has been zero. With our differences, we have ignored the fact that many times solutions start with a minimum common denominator, that you cannot pursue the maximum, when you cannot guarantee the minimum, that something can start to a lesser extent, in order to see how it works in practice, to see if and where we can improve it. This is the way the current government has chosen. He chose the option instead of the ideal, different from nothing or almost the past. And she chose to respond quickly within the first five months of her term of office. He chose not to fortify the most advanced positions, which would condemn all efforts to fail, such as in 2009, when he had brought such a bill to the House, which, unfortunately, voted for only a hundred and fifty colleagues, and which the coalition had voted against or as in 2016, 2017 and 2019, when as a Professional Opposition, we tabled again and again the same proposal of law, which was clearly ignored by the SYRIZA government. The fact that we sat around the same table, discussed, looked for and finally found where we can agree is more than a success of our government. It is a parliamentary conquest, it is a sign that the political system is ripe, that it has started to respond to the reality of the post-crisis period, and that is why hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens are involved, who have decided to live, work, raise a family abroad. There is one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. Respect for the exercise of the electoral right has not only a practical impact. It is also a recognition of the value of capital called Hellenism outside Greece, those who, with their personal example, advertise our country and its people, who choose to keep their relationship alive with our country and who in many cases - especially younger people - unwilling to return if opportunities and incentives are given to them. In this chapter, to the Greeks of Dispersion, who have sought work and better conditions abroad, we have as a government focused our attention, as we do with the "Rebrain Greece", the initiative for the repatriation of young graduates in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, because the public debate on the bill has, as it was expected, singled out who and how they should vote, it would be omission not to mention some other innovations that people deserve to be aware of. It is the new procedure for submitting candidates through a special electronic portal. It is the possibility of payment of compensation to members of the commissions, but also the provision for the first time that legal representatives are obliged to pass on how many people have voted, while the vote is in progress, so that citizens know how the election process is going. Of course, it is the increase of the Member States from twelve to fifteen, so that persons can also be included to express their ties with the Greeks abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a new beginning. In itself, voting on the bill is an important step. We have a starting point, a reference point. The challenge from now on is double: First of all, we must make the law as operational as possible in its individual forecasts, as must, for example, with the electoral departments, which must be set up in order to serve the highest possible number of voters. The second challenge is, once we have seen the results in practice, to be able to agree on subsequent changes that will echo the feeling and expectations of even more of our compatriots. That is why we call on them to respond to this first very important step, because it is their own interest, their own turnout, which will send out the message to those who have not dared enough to dare the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u41	Thank you too for keeping time. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by speaking to you as a son of migrants. My parents were in Germany for 20 years. Every year, the summer came to Greece, and every time elections were coming, because they were unable to move on buses or planes, for which the money was given by the parties, only my father came to vote. You know, depriving of the right of people to whom faith is intense, me is disturbing, as a man. Because many of you in here are particularly sensitive to immigrants, I would like to say that I did not see this sensitivity today, I did not see the same sensitivity to the Greek immigrant. And I'm talking to you as a man who grew up abroad. I have received too many messages about the abortion that is being voted on today. And I say "extension" not because it is the government's fault. Oh, no. These are the blackmails made by some, raw party blackmails. I honestly wonder what I'm going to say to my relatives -- my relatives were immigrants in the 1950s and 60s -- who even now live in Germany or America or Australia. That: You know, because the JRC had one of its own viewpoints because it had 14% in Europe and didn't want Australian to vote because SYRIZA had 15% in Europe and didn't want the rest of them to vote, you wouldn't vote, Uncle George, from Australia? Is that democracy for you? Your party interest? Is this the love for the immigrants you only have for Ibrahim or Hassan or George, Nikos, Stavros coming from another country? Does the Greek immigrant not have the right to vote? Is that a democratic sensitivity? I'll say it raw, Minister. It's a transaction product. Clear things. This law is a transaction product. And the word "necessarily", said by the Minister or "necessarily forced", said by the Minister, suggests the transaction or indirect raw blackmail. In other words, they sat on a table of five - six friends, of the parties representatives or hostile party parties, and they shared the sound of the homosexuals' votes. That's what they did. And if it were me I had to say "yes" to what the law says. If it hadn't attracted me, no matter whether I was wronging the Greek immigrant, I would say 'no'. So, in the view of the Left of the JRC, I should like to say 'no' to the vote of the people of Europe, because we received 1.5%, 1.7% from Europe. But what did the Greek Solution do? It sacrifices its party interest the Greek Solution for the national interest in the vote of the homosexuals, to vote for the homosexuals. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So we'll never go forward, and I tell you as a son, I repeat, immigrant. At least I know what immigrant means, I know what racism means. Because many in here are talking about racism, but you haven't been to a German school to see what "good" we migrants went through and what rights we had in relation to the rest and how legal or illegal the rest were, when I was growing up. So I think it's unfair and unfair. No one wants it. I'm not talking about God. God doesn't want the wrong anyway. You're a lot of atheists in here. Your right, but the wrong doesn't want it. It is an unfair law, a law that violates the principle of democracy, equality, equality, equality and equal rights of the Greeks, and that is annoying me. It bothers me too much. Of course, with an excess of comfort you are free to take in three to four years some here naturalization and vote. It can't even be immigrants. With fake papers coming, making them Greek, Greek and Greek, and voting. You give them nationalities, you give them all. What about the Greek man? My relatives in Germany, Australia, America who went to immigrants, why do you deny them the right to vote - I do not understand - because your party did not get more than 2% or 3% in America or Australia? Honestly, I don't get it. And I don't care about the racist tendency you have towards the Greeks. Because you're Greek-phobic, most of you in here. And I'm pointing the way, where I'm showing it. Others are multicultural, want to be bored with other things. I say this in order to understand that you are not really in favour of human rights. You are not in favour of equal treatment for citizens and Greeks. Different according to beam. In the new electoral lists, the percentage of new incoming voters in Greece will be 2.2%. Over the past five years, 2.2% have been entitled to Greece. Could be Ishmael, Ahmet, could be Nick not Grick from Poland. I say the names at random. They will therefore be able to vote in three to four years' time. The Greek man who sent his money from Germany, my father to the National Bank, every year, to support the Greek economy of the '60s, '70s, '80s, won't he vote? If these people did not exist, there would be no Hellenic Republic. They worked from morning to night, so they could have two jobs. My father was a miner. And you deny him the right to vote? What right are you doing this with? Who gives you the right to separate citizens into one, two, three, five, six categories? I don't get it. I don't understand it. Is it, above all, the party? Over Greece, is your party from home? Instead of agreeing all three hundred to vote for by all Greeks! - you are able to vote for all those who have come here in recent years, the foreigners, the foreigners, the non-nationals, and not the Greeks of the federation! What can I say? 'I surrender', as Mr Claus Gregoriadis said yesterday. I give up and give up spirit, I give up reason, and I deliver flesh to the logic of your irrationality. I can't watch. Honestly, I can't. Of course, the law speaks of facilitating the vote of the homosexuals, not of a full equation. I could say a lot of things about the vapour, all of it. I don't even care. You're all staying in detail. You're looking to find a detail to deny the vote to the relatives. You are looking for something from Mr Theodorikos that you might disagree, to say 'no, we do not vote for it', provided that there is a party interest below. What can I say? And that's how Greece will go forward! As for national homogeneity, there will never be a national homogeneity in Greece. Never, if we act on that logic, that the Greek Solution because in Europe it took 1.7%, 1.88% - I do not know how much we got - I should not have helped to make the choice of the manservant from Germany, from Belgium or from the Netherlands. No, gentlemen, you're wrong. These are old-fashioned. The times are very critical to continuously divide the Greeks. It is shameful that the Greek Parliament will come today and tell our relatives that there are three categories of Greek. The Greek man who won't vote, the one who came here and will vote, as long as he is called Ibrahim or I know, as it may be called, Nicholasev, and there will be the other Greek who will have the right to vote and not to go and vote. You know, there are many who are civil in Greece and their right is, they don't vote. And to the one who wants to vote we deprive him of the right! Friends and friends, all of this shows something very simple. If, on the basis of our party interest, we legislate, then we lead democracy itself to its destruction. You who are talking about democracy and democratic institutions, about human rights and solidarity, should be much more careful - especially the Left - on the asterisks and the conditions you have put into this bill. You should be the first to say yes, to vote on all Greeks throughout the planet. From Australia, America, Europe, Russia, wherever they are, if they are Greeks voting. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You did not. And you have not done so because you have always taken into account the percentage of your party. I don't care if the Greek solution tomorrow morning is not in the Greek Parliament, believe me. I'm an entrepreneur, I have my jobs, I'm going back to my company, I'm going to go to my business, I'm going to do my job. But I want to leave something behind. To have a result of words and works, and not of what I am interested in, I am voting for and I am not voting for it. Then there is a self-evident relationship between the MP, the party, and democracy itself. It's a selfish relationship. And we need to be unselfish, at least as long as we can. We are talking about a major issue, which concerns the presence of a nation that dies demographicly. Greece is dying. There's no Greek anymore. Demographically, we're dying. And instead of hug these children of the expatriates, the immigrants, the third and fourth generations, as I was a second generation, instead of hug us and say yes, we are here for you, the Greek Parliament is near you, we are kicking them out again. You guys are nice! Enjoy your voters, please your voters! I'm embarrassed because I'm honestly, I repeat, son of immigrants, and I know what all my relatives have told me on the phone about what you're doing. It is a crime, because you are isolating and alienating a Greece that is outside our borders. You isolated her because your party interest says something else. No, gentlemen. The Greeks of Germany are neither a communist, nor a Greek solution, nor a neo-democrat, nor anything. The Greek man of Germany whatever he votes, whatever he believes, is Greek! Do you understand? Greek! Whatever she votes for. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Honestly, I wonder. I'm trying to hit the strings of your emotions at some point to realize that it's not something icy indifferent to what you're doing. It's important. Everyone can believe what he wants, his right, his opinion. But all of you talking about immigrants and illegal immigrants and refugees know that you have a party in which the two - three MPs from inside are immigrant children. So to us suggestions on how we should be fair, equitable and especially honest with all people, regardless of whether they are Greeks or something else, you will never do to us. You are racist towards the Greeks, you deny them the right to vote and don't tell me about racism in here. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Friends and friends, I do not want to spend much time, but I would like to say a few things, because unfortunately, Minister, yesterday this Council was done with the representatives of the parties, about Greek-Turkish. We don't understand one thing. I will read to you what Emmanuel Rukuna, a professor of international law, has said. You have not understood exactly what happened with Turkey. Turkey created customary law by letter to the UN. And those who know a little about international relations - because unfortunately I have been involved in international law and I have necessarily, because of my school, dealt with geostrategics - customary law produces law internationally, because it depends on the second country, if it reacts. If it does not react, then it is established customary law, i.e. if Greece does not react to the coming of a ship under Crete, not diplomatically. Because the first half of the year we lost it. The Turks first sent the letter and we followed it a week ago by a letter. Turkey has created data which are not easily overthrown. So I call on the Prime Minister of the country if he did so inadvertently - and I want to believe that it was inadvertently done that after a week we responded - to sit down and hold a meeting of leaders, because things are not as simple as that. We invoke this academic in his book "International Law", which speaks of customary or custom. I repeat that what has been done with Turkey is a de facto, if Greece does not react strongly, to enforcing the custom of international law. Anyone who understands what I'm saying to him understands. Anyone who doesn't want to, then we have a problem of perceptiveness. Nobody in here wants the war. Who wants war in here? If there's a war, I'll lose money, lose property, lose my child. We're all gonna lose something. But there is that moment when you're wondering: How far can the Turkish ships arrive? Sounio, say? Salamis? Where do Greece have to go to react, as parties, to the Turkish Soviet-Military Challenge? You tell me. Go out and tell me what your leaders say about it. Nobody's talking. And I'm tired of hearing 'psyroemia'. My view, Minister, Mr Theodorikos, because I respect you as a human, is that cold and cold blood have snakes, reptiles. Man can't have cold, cold blood. So you have to understand it. If they come to Sunio, what do we have to do? I ask you what must be done. Answer me. Is there someone to tell me what's going to happen? You know, because you control the channels in the New Democracy, I see your inter-ethnicists who go from here and there. And I have heard some SYRIZA Ministers too, because sometimes half-intention is worse than immortality, saying this unimportant: The letter says, which Turkey has sent does not mean anything, it is nothing. Your incoherence to all greatness. But it creates data on any letter from the moment it is received and received. Don't you understand? The self-evident? And you ruled the country? And you rule Greece like this, cultivating the reassurance and fear to the Greeks? ‘What's going to happen? Would you like a war?' I have heard Mrs Bakoyannis say this: If the Turkish fleet comes out in the Aegean, what will Greece do? What are we going to do, Minister? Are we going to get rid of us? Is that what we're talking That's what Mrs. Bakoyannis said. We don't want a war clearly, but what do we want after all? Have we talked about it? Shall we give Crete? Shall we give the Kastelorizo? Shall we give the Aegean or Thrace, so that there will never be a war? As the logic of resentment works and as much as you retreat as the mighty moves forward. Understood. He needs reason and seriousness. And by closing, I'll say it again. You've lost a lot of half-time. With Haftar you lost a very big advantage our country could have. You bring on Thursday, he says, the President of Parliament here, and you do well and we are with you. The point is to define an EOZ. If we do not determine EEZ, we will have to slid behind developments and divide oil or gas and go to the farm. What are we going to tell the new kids looking at us from the top? "Do you know we don't precede," said the late Charilaus Florakis? It is not the case that we are 'necessary'. It's not like we didn't think. Because we as a Greek Solution tell you what to do, just pretend you don't listen. That's what bothers me. We're talking to ears of not listening to deaf people who don't want to know what we're telling them. There are no friendships. Understood. There is no European Union. Do not feed the hay world, saying that the European Union has reacted. The European Union does not have an army to force political will. Thucydides was saying, Mr. Levane, that a city without an army, no matter how strong it is, cannot impose its will. This is Europe. Strong economics, no army, can't force her will. Will NATO protect us? Who? What about the Americans who are doing tents on Erdogan? We're alone. We, our children, our grandchildren, our nephews, our relatives and our friends. We're the Greeks alone. I say it and I call it. That critical moment will come - to end the tale - which we all have to ask ourselves why this government has allowed the transfer of war materials from Istanbul, according to the Cao transmitted here by Larissa. The route of the cargo plane three days ago carried arms from Istanbul to Libya. How was Larissa allowed to fly that plane? I got a picture of the plane here. For our information, it's very good. He was carrying weapons. How the government or the civil aviation of our country allowed us to transfer arms to a country, Libya, which made us with its hostile energy to become "black cans" in the Aegean or Crete. How did you allow that? And that's in your sleep? Cargo is called "AEROTRANS" Mr. Lebanon. Note it. Look it up, see what's true. What I'm telling you is true. Even now they're carrying weapons. And does the Greek Government shepherd the island or sleep the law? I don't know. Or the services? It's not the Minister's fault. We have civil aviation, civil service. There's nothing going on. I close here, reading what Joseph Borrell said, the High Representative for Foreign Policy: "I never said the agreement is illegal. I said he's causing us concern. Your European friend, as you say! Friends, solidarity, partners. You are trying to convince the Greek people that the Europeans will save us. When did the Europeans save us? When the Turks took us a canyon in the Saigon, which our former allies were constantly helping them? When did the Europeans save us? When they put us on the left with right-wings? In 1945-1949 did our allies help us? What are we talking about? Or with our Cyprus, where did the Turks and the Americans go in? When did our European allies help? Never! So stop being a slave to the alliances that do not exist. Resurrectly to think about political leaders and talk to our children, our grandchildren about what comes from now on and what we will do as a country. Don't bend the head. We've had enough of it, friends and friends. And I don't want to be a master of evil. I wish I was the wrong one, but I warn, I beg a bell toward all of us, it's gonna be a tough winter. Because after March Turkey will not make the slightest episode. Do you know why? Politics doesn't want too much brains. He wants you to anticipate the facts. Because she has her tourism. So what's going to happen will be December, January, February. I wish nothing would happen. But think about the Imias becoming winter too. Think about the conditions of a few episodes. Think about what might happen. So I'm telling you, the moments are critical. Let's leave the rest, and let's get to grips with it, because it's getting worse. Away from party claws. Above all, it is our Greece and our children who are above and see us! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, nineteen students and students and two educational escorts from the 2nd PAAL Sivitanidium. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom ENTERPRISE VENIZELOS and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd High School of Agia Anargyra. The House welcomes you. And now Mrs Theodora Augeris has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the right to vote and stand as a candidate is the soul of our Constitution. The vote is the heart of the Parliamentary Republic around which we have gathered our social and political lives. It is a point of reference in our history, which runs all the manifestations of our collective consciousness. In plenary today we are debating the right of Greeks to vote abroad, which, although constitutionally guaranteed already in 1975, has in fact remained inactive, due to the inertia and indifference of all the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. Although this is a national issue, to the extent that the Greek communities of abroad contribute to strengthening the country's international position, despite the fact that the state's organic relations with our compatriots and fellow citizens, who have been resident in another country, has remained inactive for four decades. Why? The answer that the representatives of the Change Movement and the New Democracy have given so far is not convincing. And they are not convincing, as we in SYRIZA understand them or as I understand them. I have the feeling that it was not convincing for representatives of the organizations of the expatriates from the Greek Democratic Republic who formulated this "because" all these past days at the meetings of the Committee of Depopulated Hellenism. It remains a fact that those who in the midst of a crisis raised the issue with the disposition of a micropolitical warfare did nothing before but unbearable political rhetoric and wishfulness. Of course, the Memorandum of Crisis brought the issue back to the top of the political proposals for a substantial reason: Economic migration of young people, in principle, has been a decisive event, so that it can finally understand the political system of the scale of the consequences of the crisis, not to use, as it did, the crisis as an opportunity to break up social links, to speed up neoliberal reforms, which neoliberalise the social fabric, but to be able to realize how the state can protect and broaden the rights of all those who live and work here, in Greece or those who live abroad, and have it as a point of reference, despite the adversities and confrontation with them. For our part, SYRIZA, as a government, in 2018, set up a Special Scientific Committee of the Ministry of the Interior, as well as a comprehensive draft law, which fully documented the relevant international experience, dealing with both constitutional and administrative problems that emerged. At the same time, on our own initiative, we also opened up the debate on the Constitutional Review of Article 54 in the Pre-Accession House. From the outset, SYRIZA's attitude and position was clear. We have chosen an effective, transparent and imprecise procedure, which will guarantee both the right to vote and the right to elect the Greeks who live and work abroad, their fair representation in the Greek Parliament and not the election, the misleading and the division of the Greek people. We have sought and sought to give voice to the Greeks living outside the country's borders in order to secure their right to vote for the process, under the supervision of an inter-group committee, respecting the principle of equality of vote, while defending our European acquis and our constitutional culture. The words of the then Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras from this one step of the House last May on a related proposal by Mr Mitsotakis. "This," said Alexis Tsipras, "the people that your party has banished from the country, these will be us first to give them the right to vote." We arrive at the present time, where the New Democracy has sloppyly introduced, with institutional and constitutional acronyms, with micro-party self-interest and the feasibility of another bill, seeking pre-formative and short-term political consensus and addressing inter-party calls on the allegedly unity and understanding. Unfortunately, the New Democracy began, fishing in blurred waters, retreating along the way, when its electoral plans failed, investing in tacticalism and drunkenness, even in the vote of thousands of Greeks. However, in any case, ladies and gentlemen, the main question is the existence, maintenance and strengthening of the real and strong links between Greeks abroad and their country, with Greek society and the Greek state. It is only then that the democratic representation of the non-stated voters becomes essential. All of this is not a normality for a so-called end-of-date state, which resurrects the party transaction and the involvement in a basic qualification of excellence, a so-called end-of-end state, which is being set up to hit the social state, which is perpetuating its support in the middle-class and, at the end, stumbling it up once again. Half a million young people left Greece during the crisis, scientists, professionals, following other young people who, without property, managed to build their own businesses in economically competitive societies and environments, with the unique comparative advantage of honesty, labour and perseverance. How, then, and with what expectation can these people return to their homeland? No, however, with some hair that the New Democracy government wants to share. Are you asking yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the government, the contradiction with which you are once again entering critical matters? Do you want to make societals in all this micropolitical or political misery and Greeks who live, work and try hard abroad? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Whether it relates to foreign policy and geopolitical stability or to refugee, your Government shows that it is fully unprepared, coordinated exclusively with the lists of its pre-election promises and ideological obsessions. So let us bear this in mind in the face of an important decision which does not mean turning into another cheap party game. SYRIZA - and I am closing with this, Mr President - will consent to what is self-evidently positive, to what constitutes social law and national truth. The times stress not only the micro-political management of a problem, but the visionary relationship of all Greek citizens with the Hellenic Republic. Let us get away from the narrow and one-sided ideological horizons and see with a progressive look that our democracy will become a point of reference for young people, a field of intellectual origin and creative destination and not another way out of their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. We do not think, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a man of good faith - and this category obviously does not belong either to Mr Velopoulos or to the Members of his party - who does not recognize the JRC that it has been clearly and unambiguously placed on this subject and without any hindrance. We have therefore stated from the outset that, of course, the Greeks who work or study abroad can and must be facilitated so that they can vote in the Greek elections from their very far-sighted place of residence and that this was not difficult to achieve with certain forecasts. First of all, we took into account all these hundreds of thousands of young people, who in recent years have left the country, a massive departure that took place in the years of the crisis and the returning Memorandums. You know what? Not all of these people left too willingly for tourism. In fact, the governments of the country have driven them out with their policy, with the anti-grass laws they have voted for, voted and voted for, in order to support the profits of business groups in every way. These governments and their policies are also the major guilty of immigration of a large part of Greek youth, and this is without any subsidy for a minimum, a subsidy which, in essence, refinances the big business by offering them fresh, cheap and highly qualified labour. You see neither migration over time nor much longer are of course periodical phenomena, as is often the case, but a forced choice of thousands, millions of people, for economic reasons, in order to find jobs or for political reasons, even for survival. With the proposal put forward by the JRC on facilitating Greek voters abroad, we believe that, not only do all these people who have migrated to the years of crisis and the memorials, but that they are also covered and facilitated to vote in their place of residence, even those who have left several years before the crisis and have not been able to return to the country because of this crisis, although they still have such a desire and expectation. From the outset, however, we have said about this facilitation that it must be subject to certain criteria to prevent the electorate from being altered by voters whose perceptions and decisions are often formed in a completely different political and social environment or by voters without, or with little knowledge of, modern Greek reality or with no real ties to the country or, of course, with voters who are not affected by any policy being implemented in Greece, nor will they suffer the slightest consequence of any election, because their lives are, after all, solely linked to the political and social reality of Greece, but of the country in which they live. Was it so unlikely that this alteration of the electorate would occur with an over-inflation of it? Not at all. Based on the existing law of citizenship and naturalisation in our country, which is based on the anachronistic concept of blood law and which in our country leads us to self-righteous lists - which is not the case, for example, in other European countries - this could happen even with distant third-generation descendants, who would simply have a Greek ancestor, without them having to do with Greek reality. Some come here and show the existence of mental and emotional links with Greece. Not only are these ties questioned, but they are all worthy and respected, but they are not enough to establish the facilitation of electoral rights, a basic political right, which at its core, and according to the urban perception, links the consequences of exercising this right to anyone exercising it. This is not only supported by the Communist Party of Greece, it is not arbitrary. It is an international position and practice and, indeed, countries such as Germany, Great Britain and the United States. In other words, countries that are usually offended by you as standards. Here are all three criteria proposed by our party to facilitate Greek voters abroad, which met widely socially. This was reflected in recent polls both inside and outward. These criteria are: First, the proven existence and functioning of real and substantial links with the country, for example economic, tax, social. Secondly, the total, and not necessarily continuous, two-year stay in Greece for the last thirty-five years. Germany, for example, is more stringent here. The limit is at 15 years. Thirty-five years - let this misunderstanding no longer be a limit, but it is the timeframe within which the two-year stay must be proved. Thirdly, the self-representation of the voter in front of the ballot, not the vote by correspondence or the vote by electronic votes, which neither the secrecy of the vote nor the validity of the election procedure guarantee, which was previously seen - for those who remember - in the Italian elections with the letter of vote that the mafia shared. Most of all, however, these practices of letter and electronic voting degrade and undermine the essence of political participation. Some, these criteria have even emerged as bureaucratic obstacles. In any case, there is much less of these obstacles to providing for example the heating allowance or other social benefits. In conclusion, I would like to say that these criteria neither limit nor remove anyone's electoral right. They are simply the prerequisites for the exercise of the electoral right, through the inclusion in the special electoral lists of the Greeks abroad, and ultimately operate in the interest of the voters themselves, against divisive logic that may be created in marginal elections. Finally, we hope that this bill will become a guide to the Greek national voters, Minister, because in last July's elections thousands of employees in the tourism sector have not only been facilitated to exercise this right, but in fact their employer has banned it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u48	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, the words of our President have been distorted earlier, and I would like to correct them. The President of the Greek Solution referred to the Greeks who have left Australia and the United States and not to those who have left lately. So it's just twisted his words and it's not good that his words are perverted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u50	All right, that's cleared up. Mrs. Apajidis from Mera25 has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are being called upon to legislate on a crucial issue for Greek democracy. It concerns the composition of the electorate which will determine future parliaments and governments. It is about how we understand what the people of the Hellenic Republic are. Our party, Mera25, envisions a unified democratic Hellenism which encourages political fermentation at international level. We have a duty to serve those who had to leave, to live because of the "debtor house" or the other very difficult years of our Greece. The importance, however, is the fundamental political involvement of the results. We want the dissidents to be Greek ambassadors to the countries where they live and work, to put forward the country's demands, to cause fermentation and fountains of political intervention abroad. A few comments on the attitude of the different parties, which shows what the people of democracy, the people who vote for each party, mean: The New Democracy wants only the democrats to elect a party and a party and otherwise to remain without a political voice. He understands the people as a party army for no reason about his own problems and demands. The people become a means of climbing the parties to power. SYRIZA attempts the reverse. It came with fear in dialogue on a subject that was imposed on him. Finally, it proposed that the representation of the revenue should be limited to twelve Members and that the election result should not be affected. Mera25 supports a synthetic solution. It offers a combination of the rights offered by the New Democracy and SYRIZA to the Greeks, by removing the restrictions. The solution of Mera25 also has the element of elected and the representation that SYRIZA wants and the element of determining the election result, as the New Democracy wants. In addition, we insist that the dissidents vote with a crusade, while the Change Movement proposed a moderate, degraded combination of proposals from the New Democracy and SYRIZA. Mera25 attempts to make a real composition. To be given to the demigrant Greeks full-time and full-fledged, with parity and proportionality. The problem with SYRIZA's proposals is that they lead to earthquake. According to SYRIZA, the Members of Parliament will not be equal to the rest of Parliament, as they will not shape the election result. In other words, Parliament of many speeds. The JRC also seems to have a fear of the migrants, which is why it imposed restrictions on the New Democracy, which, ironically, are rather right. They're dependent on economic activity. The JRC's logic is a little - a lot - that to vote you have to be ready to feel the results of future governance in your pocket, just to say it. But that is a dangerous logic. It was in times past, not full democracy had been established. Unfortunately, the bill came from a compromise between New Democracy and the JRC, which combines the negative proposals of both proposals. That is why we are critical of it, because the possibility of crusade is not equal to the vote in relation to the domestic citizens of Greece. Ultimately, SYRIZA and KKE expressed fear to the people of the deceased. At Mer25 we want to get rid of this phobia. We believe that the Left is the one who has confidence in the rightness of his struggle and the power given to him by the persuasion of the rational argument. Assigning to the right-wing Greekism is a posture of defeat. It is up to us to try for a better policy, left and democratic. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] SYRIZA is absorbed by the management game inside and does not see the 2015 lesson that, in order for Greece to change through international resistance, we must all change together. This is why we need a wide-ranging publicity of Greece's problems. For Mer25, the left does not mean isolation, folding, phobia, the definition of the people based on property and pragmatic micromanagement. On the left, it means internationalism, namely seeking international democratic fermentation, involving both Greeks and foreigners. After all, Day 25 is part of the international pan-European movement of DiEM25 and Left means faith in the people, self-confidence in the right word and confidence in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too. Good afternoon to all of you! I invite Mr. Georgios Frangiides from the Change Movement for seven minutes. He's the last person to have the floor for seven minutes. Then we'll go to five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, first of all, thank you for your understanding. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the vote of the non-national electorate, namely Greeks abroad, was one of the reasons why the recent constitutional review, unreasonably unreasonable, gained meaning and substance. It was a matter of political and legal culture to give their Greeks temporary or permanent residents abroad the essential opportunity to exercise the fundamental right to vote. After all, it has been a constant request for many years and it has been just and moral to be satisfied. The acquisition of the electoral right does not, of course, automatically mean its ability to exercise it. So the non-stated Greeks, although legally able to vote in the elections of their homeland, have so far not really been able to exercise their right to vote. This draft law enacts the provision of Article 51 of the Constitution which enables the legislator to define how the electoral right is exercised. This is particularly important, as Greece is a country that has always had too many immigrants abroad. In addition, in recent years of the crisis and of memoranda, unfortunately, a new wave of immigration and, indeed, new people of high education are recorded. By voting for the bill, which we are discussing today, a large portion of Greek citizens who are on the four horizons of the world, but their hearts are beating in Greece, they will be able to participate actively in the formation of the political situation of their country of origin, strengthening the ties with their homeland and maintaining a high sense of patriotism. It is our duty, therefore, not to embrace the Greeks wherever they are, and to move along with a spirit of unity and unity, giving the appropriate message in all directions in a critical period for our national issues. I wonder, however, if this message manages to pass well through this bill with all these restrictions and cuts it contains. Despite its particular importance, the bill does not, unfortunately, respond to the requirements of modern times and is inferior to the circumstances. I dare say that it is impenetrable and in many respects unclear, perhaps some provisions also raise legal issues. Our party has been asking for the vote of the Greeks to take place in Parliament for years. In addition, in 2001, the constitutional review provided for in the vote took place. Our proposals are specific and clear about both the conditions and the way in which the electoral right is exercised, i.e. listing and updating the figures, counting the vote on the election result, electoral regions or an external electoral district and a letter of vote. Our political party, therefore, was the only one to express to 100% the demands of the impoverished and our proposals were universal acceptance by the bodies and communities that represent them. However, this draft law sets out the conditions and limitations to be taken into account. The occupation of VAT, the definition of the minimum two-year stay in Greece and the maximum absence of thirty-five years abroad as preconditions for participation in the elections, beyond their arbitrary nature, also raise issues of equality between voters. Moreover, they remove the possibility of electing the majority of Greeks abroad, mainly second generation immigrants and those who have left Greece for many years, in the 1960s. We need to see this because we know that these people are also the ones who seek every opportunity to come to Greece. It is possible, therefore, to create two-speed electors when we restrict the Greeks abroad when he exercises his electoral right in the country of residence, while we do not do the same when the Greek himself comes to vote in Greece. It's a very serious vote. At a time when in other countries of the West this way of participating in the elections has been established for some time, we question both the solvency and the impotence of the process. They are obsolete and obsolete, when electronic voting is now under way in the modern world and for this process we should be talking about here today. The editorial vote would be an incision to the electoral process and would contribute to the massity of participation. It's a pity he's stumbling at the obsessed strangles and the micro-particular feasibility of SYRIZA and KKE. It would also be fair and democratic if there were clear and distinct representation of the Greeks abroad in the elections. This would make it possible to create a special region for those through special lists of parties with candidates of their own. Finally, dispersion is an integral part of Hellenism and must of course have a voice that can, however, be heard clearly and loudly. It's a second Greece located outside the territory. It's big in size and in a soul. We need it and neither should we forget it, nor should we blame it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u54	We are also grateful for the time and the above. Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenides from SYRIZA has the floor. Mr. Igoumenides begins the marathon with five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, by synchronising the media with the statements by the Minister of Home Affairs, they are essentially covering the subject we are discussing with the following titles: 'Declaration. Change SYRIZA's position. Prevalence of SYRIZA, "Declaration. All together, SYRIZA around the corner. All together except for SYRIZA, "Declaration. All together with SYRIZA apart". This whole climate cannot be understood otherwise, rather than as a coordinated attempt to pass a message on to society that SYRIZA has been unable to vote by the Greeks. And if, in my opinion, neither the Minister nor the journalists who are in an orderly service are in need of denial, they know very well that they are lying. However, I would like to dwell on this point in my speech. In my opinion, there are four - five things that need to be pointed out. Firstly, we cannot see today's debate ripped out of the political reality of the last few years, such as the finding of German allowances and steps in their claim, the progressive bills for the abolition of racial discrimination, the protection of vulnerable social groups, the historical initiatives in relations between the State and Church, the removal of the essential provision for the responsibility of the Ministers, the establishment of simple proportional. That was the political reality that was launched. In this reality, which expresses the requirements of society that he wanted and wishes at last to go ahead with, in this reality, in this call of society, the initiative of the SYRIZA Government for the practical safeguarding of the right to vote and to be elected for the migrant Greeks. Secondly, in addition to political reality, we are experiencing a social reality, ladies and gentlemen, which is the irreversible reality of the crisis, which also does not illustrate the media, and which, however, makes it more urgent to address the problem of the vote on fraud. I am referring to the tens of thousands of young people who have been raised from home to ensure a better future and decenter living conditions. I followed with interest the touching, emotional approach of the rapporteur of the New Democracy. I wonder, though, who excavated post-degree disease and, in general, hunting qualifications after a degree in order to find a job? What educational policies have the diplomas of young scientists undermined? When and how did they care about the young people in love, about the young people who want to work, about the young people who want to have a family, about the young people who want to live all life and not just what the pedophiles of power allow her? In addition to the wall that the New Democracy has been building for decades with its policy of burdening its head, what else have they done, what have they offered to this youth? Third matter. It is clear that we should not work on the vote. It says the Chief of the Greek solution that we are looking to vote against the New Democracy bill. Really? Is that why we tried to secure it in the Revision of the Constitution? That is why, if you wish, we have not proposed - let me speak - when we had the majority in this House a bill or a committee of our own, but have referred the matter to a Legislative Committee of the Ministry of the Interior, with the participation of experts. And I answer directly to you, Mr. Velopoulos, and to all of you. The truth is that your party, the party of the New Democracy, part of the flesh of the New Democracy, blood from the blood of the New Democracy is also the Greek Solution, never wanted to secure the right that was overtime and was already provided by the Constitution of 1975. Mr. Ministers, the false words of the great, along with the fake bibliographics - and, of the miracle, the false resume of the man who had the portfolio for the demeanors of Greek - mercy! These false words must be condemned and finished with them. I think that the safeguarding of the right to voice, the right to vote and the self-determination of the elected Greeks, this safeguarding through a transparent, improper procedure and with respect for the Constitution, has first of all to do with the quality of our democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too. Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a bill that has been late and now that it is being voted on is, unfortunately, half or less than it should be, because the right to vote on Greeks abroad should have been a self-evident act of the Greek state for years. However, in the country of paradox and this was not possible, and the crisis of the last ten years had to pass, the massive fleeing of hundreds of thousands of young people abroad in search of work and finally the victory of the New Democracy in recent elections to reach a serious legislative proposal. But even now, if there were not a huge effort made by the Interior Minister who made compromises and concessions, there would not be at least 100 Members of Parliament who would be needed to vote in favour of the bill. This demonstrates the serious diseases of our political system, the lack of boldness and introvert that distinguishes it. Yet the arguments for resolving the problem are clear and I am sure that the average Greek citizen is aware of them and embracing them, most likely having relatives or friends abroad. First of all, we maintain the bond of payees with the mother country, a bond of deep and strong that, as a fact, is not altered by their long stay abroad, a relationship that the country itself should have to maintain and strengthen. Immediate participation in the election events is an effective recognition of the remote Greeks that they are interested and struggling for their homeland. It is an act of more active association with home and this is of particular value to the hundreds of thousands of our young people who have emigrated in previous years and have been located primarily in western Europe. These people, we must not lose them. Our aim must primarily be to get them back to Greece, but for as long as they stay they must have reason and involvement in the things of the country. Secondly, we recognise the offer of Greek from the Greek Parliament to the promotion of our national issues, stable and lasting for decades. For Cyprus, Macedonia, for the Olympic Games the Greeks abroad were always in the front line, communizing Greek Laws in their countries of residence. I do not think I need to argue in particular about what the Greek federation has offered in the United States, where political decisions as they are known are crucially influenced by organized lobbys or what the Greeks of Australia or Western Europe have done. We therefore ask them to participate in the struggles of the country, but we deny them the right to vote, because some are afraid that they will alter the election result. Thirdly, with the right to vote for the Greeks abroad, national unity is being strengthened and, at international level, it is essential to address the serious challenges that this country has been facing since the review of the neighbour. To all of this, ladies and gentlemen, it comes to reply in part to the bill we are discussing, although the representatives of our federal organizations rightly complain, as we have heard them in committee, because it is off-secret, without the possibility of voting in its place of residence, the vast majority of our compatriots. I'm sure that wasn't the target of our party. However, it was an emergency solution to the danger of losing the opportunity to vote even those who are now included in the provisions of the bill. In any case, the vote on the bill is a historic event, and because of the large majority that is planned to take it, and we welcome it as such. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying that I hope that this law will soon be amended, allowing all our compatriots abroad to take part in the elections, even by written vote. I wish, ladies and gentlemen, that this step will continue to be taken in the future by all Greeks outside the borders, by Greeks who are Greeks, not to be treated as foreigners in Greece! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. And from Larissa to Kefalonia! Mr Panagis Capatos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, every year at the beginning of August, the annual congress of the Cyrilians and Ithacasias is taking place on our islands. In this context, personalities of our country are invited, both public and non-published, to submit opinions, suggestions and objections on various issues which concern our off-territorial compatriots. The not too far 2009, in the presence of MP at the time Prokopi Pavlopoulou, held the conference with the thematic theme of the vote. Despite the critical and useful conclusions reached, most of them were left on paper. That is what I am saying today in plenary, when ten years later we are discussing the same issue. The good news, however, is that we are not only talking about it today, but we are voting on it. Today the facilitation of the impoverished Greeks, the Kefalinos and the Ideals of the Dispersion, to exercise their constitutional right becomes the law of the state. Are there any points of the law that concern us? Yeah. Could the final text of the bill be different? Maybe. Would it then be possible for the Greek Parliament to vote by a large majority? Clearly, no. Politics is used to say that it is the art of the practicable one, the result of a painful, but consistent process from which decisions are made that are decisive to the life of all of us. This principle adopts the draft law we are discussing today. Paul Bakoyannis wrote: "We can and disagree because we can coexist." And the truth is that now that our consent leads to a final text, accepted by the broad majority, we can only admit that in the end there is the possibility of agreeing despite the political disagreements between us, that we can find a common place on key issues, such as the vote of the Greeks who have been forced or have chosen to build their future outside our homeland, that in the end the voice of Kefalonitis and Thianos of the Diaspora can be heard institutionally. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill of the Ministry of Interior on facilitating the exercise of the electoral right of voters outside Greece came after the recent revision of Article 54 of the Constitution. It is the continuation of our commitment in the election that we will give voice to Greek citizens abroad as one of the most important problems that we have put as a military opposition. That is what is happening today. It is the tangible proof that what we say we do, even if that was not so self-evident in the past. The years of the crisis, which have prompted thousands of our fellow citizens abroad, want us to believe that they have changed the way we behave, that we think, that we coexist. But they even changed the way we legislate. Today's vote takes place on the basis of an agreement in principle on four points, the vote by the voter in elections to be set up in embassies, consular posts, or other appropriate places, the equivalence of vote on the overall result of the voters exercising their right to vote, the right to register abroad's electoral lists and the increase of Members of Parliament in fifteen of twelve. The vote on the bill is therefore an important step in spite of the individual improvements that may be possible in the future. We can't, but we don't deserve to ignore reality. One right, which we discussed in many cases at the theoretical level ten years ago, is now the law of the state. It is therefore up to us that this law is widely accepted, that we mobilise the Greek citizens abroad, so that the consensus we are seeking today at the level of the parliamentary groups is found in the social group. They must also give political parties first example. If we are to say what we are saying, it is up to the political forces to choose candidates for the rule lists from the Hellenism of the Diaspora. Only then can they have a real say on the future of our country, actively involved in its formation, because if those citizens are absent from the electoral process today, we are not justified making them abstaining in the next, in the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. Mrs. Rallia Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I go into the matter that we are going to discuss today - always respecting Rule 66 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and paragraph 5 and also paragraph 8 - because things have been heard and constantly heard in this Chamber, to remind colleagues once again and by the minor opposition that the government is currently a government of the New Democracy, it is not a government of SYRIZA. And in our opinion, we believe that you are a heir to the government, you are a heir to the New Democracy, you are a scratch to it, and as far as right-wing populism is concerned, most people do not convince him. It is our duty to resist the fascist voices that mourn society and I very much regret that some face parliamentary and democracy as a shop and themselves as products for sale. To come back to the subject again, we are today deciding on an extremely important issue, both in terms of symbolism and substance, whose debate began with the constitutional review and which, unfortunately, shows that the majority of the vote on the army even the most important national issues in the short-term party interest. Greece has a huge dispersion over time and spreads into many countries and at different times. The main argument of this bill is that you want all Greeks to vote. From 1975 to now, however, the parties of bipartisanism have not dealt with the question of the vote on the vote on the motions for resolutions, although they were indeed mature as a request, and the relevant welfare in the Constitution has also been provided. What have you been doing for so many years? This vicious circle was broken by SYRIZA, when in the first four years of governance he tried to give a solution to the problem with objectivity, with credibility and not by working on the migrants, as was the case until then, with the setting up of a nomadic committee at the Ministry of the Interior, involving experts who did not have party but scientific parchments, always following the democratic principle, always following good European practices. The European example has been studied by countries such as Greece, which have a great dispersion, and the international experience of the European Court of Justice has also been studied. So, with the intention of all the people of Greece participating in the election and in the election, we have proceeded with an integrated proposal which enables the Greeks to elect their representative. SYRIZA's proposal is in line with the spirit of the Council's decisions of Hellenism, it is in line with the proposals of the Committee on Human Rights, but of course in line with European experience. The schilling vote without conditions originally supported by the New Democracy was clear that it would create huge problems of transparency and validity of the procedure itself, but would also significantly alter the election result. Even the JRC's proposal has significant weaknesses, as it does not guarantee the right to elect the migrants and does not clarify points that could undermine the credibility and transparency of the whole process. However, with the intention of finding a common place of understanding on this basis, we have proposed that transparency be ensured in drawing up electoral lists, checking the criteria and administering each application by a cross-party committee set up by a decision of the Minister of the Interior and a predetermined composition. The special foreign electoral lists should be updated annually and not every decade, as proposed, and this provision, apart from problematic, is also unconstitutional. As planned at the moment, it enables the Interior Minister to regulate serious issues relating to the listing and certification of voters, which violates constitutional provision for broad cross-party consensus and information on these issues. So we propose that this decision be adopted after the agreement of the 2/3 Special Permanent Committee on Hellenism of the Dispersion. Finally, because we do not treat migrants as a pool of votes, we also want them to have the right to vote. We insist on our original proposal, therefore, with two categories of dominance roll-calls, an internal one and an external one. Ladies and gentlemen, the way in which this draft law has been dealt with by us and by the majority is equivalent to each side's political perception and attitude. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. We have dealt with the issue politically and responsibly on the basis of European experience and with the intention of genuine participation of immigrants. On the other hand, we have the New Democracy. The purpose of this desire is to exploit the political context. Today, now on a matter of enormous importance for the citizens and their democratic legitimacy in the eyes of society, but also against the Constitution, majority Members see only votes, and the issues that may arise are very important. And I close, Mr President, in this way. Yesterday, Mr. Claus Gregoriadis repeated seven times the word "I surrender" and wanted to highlight the unnecessary cruelty and barbaric repression of our unarmed fellow citizens. I say again that we are not given up, I never give up on any authoritarian force. Left and left story never surrenders! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too. We're continuing with SYRIZA. Mr Evangelos Apostleou has the floor. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by reminding Members of the New Democracy that it was the space of the refreshing left, our place, which has been trying to impose the constitutional requirement enabling Greeks abroad to participate in the political life of the country for years. That is why not only did we specialize in the original provision in the Review, but we have also made sure that a specific proposal for a law is drawn up in Parliament. This is the draft law drawn up by the Committee under Article 256 of Law 4558/2018, which involved remarkable scientists from all over the political spectrum, as well as the final executives of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs. Our government's initiative at the time to set up this committee and its broadly impeccable function was the first attempt of a structured and objective global approach to the issue, which demonstrates the essential will of the SYRIZA, both as government and opposition today, to find a solution to this issue, a matter that is time-consuming and, of course, the solution is not irresponsible and communication and not just aimed at micro-participation. I would also like to remind you that the setting-up of this committee has received in the vote a broad cross-party support with the positive votes of members of the SYRIZA, the Democratic Reconciliation, the JRC and the ANELs, as well as the tolerance with the 'PARA' vote of the River. Let us see what the main points of SYRIZA's proposal were at the time. Firstly, the possibility of exercising the electoral right from abroad will be for all Greek citizens to be elected on condition that they are registered on the special lists abroad. Secondly, the electoral right of these voters will be exercised in person in special foreign elections created at the seats of the Greek diplomatic authorities and elsewhere a sufficient number of voters are gathered. Thirdly, the foreign voters will vote for the party's combinations for a number of seats, which will be determined solely on the basis of foreign votes and between three and twelve, depending on the number of votes to be entered in each election procedure in the special electoral lists abroad. However, the draft law, tabled by the Government, did not correspond to the need to guarantee the right to vote and to elect Greeks abroad by an effective and transparent procedure. Nevertheless, we also agreed to discuss the New Democracy proposal by setting specific conditions of principle and by prerequisite that any legislative proposal will also have the necessary constitutional reception through the revision of the Constitution. This has also been done, although I have been omitted, with the addition of paragraph 4 to Article 54. Also, in the context of the dialogue that followed, the New Democracy abandoned its original position on a no-conditional dilemma and adopted as the basis for discussion the position of the Communist Party of Greece with which we had already agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, we have insisted in particular on establishing clear criteria for who has the right to vote, because otherwise the popular verdict, which other opposition parties have also expressed, would largely alter. The proposal for a law of SYRIZA fully adopts the views expressed by all the institutions responsible for national and international bodies, and especially the Council of the Greek Parliament. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We have said that we want the freelances, the Greeks abroad, to have a voice, a vote and a right of self-determination. And that is not just what you have heard from us, but from other aspects of the Chamber. We still have time. We believe that, at the end of the day, we can achieve a good result that will be passed by all the governments of the Parliament. We owe it to our demigrant compatriots.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much Mr Apostle. Stefanos Gikas has the floor from New Democracy, and then the parliamentary representative from the Change Movement Mr. Konstantinos Scandalidis will be given the floor. Here, Mr. Gika, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is not a random bill. It is a bill of national importance, a law that should have been implemented for many years because it was also a request from the Greeks abroad. With this initiative, our government, after consulting the parties, brings this draft law and I hope that we will all vote on this important national bill this evening. Of course, I have to say that the original New Democracy proposal was better, it was wider. However, it is in the positive direction. So today we are allowing a significant number of proven Greeks to express their constitutional right, vote, and to participate in the events of the country. If we think that only in America is more than three million Greeks, in Australia, seven hundred thousand, in other countries of Europe near four hundred thousand, we understand how important today is for all these Greeks. Of course, there are a number of diagrams in this law. After all, it could not be done. However, a large number of, I think, will approach the five hundred thousand to exercise their right to vote. They must, of course, be registered on the electoral lists and according to the law, which will soon become the law of the state, there must be two specific procedures. In the first, the last thirty-five years should have spent a total of two years in Greece, Greece, and in the second, they should have submitted a tax declaration in the current or the previous tax year. Of course, this is where young people under thirty years of age are excluded, but the first-degree relatives should have made a relevant tax statement. Apart from the emigrant Greeks there are, you know, the immigrants of the last five years, a decade, the young children, who have left abroad seeking a better life, under conditions not so favourable many times. So this bill allows these children to also participate in the political process, not to feel detached from the country and to be able to exercise their right to vote. It is also very important - and it is very important - that the number of Members of Parliament rises to fifteen and, in any case, three should come from those on the lists of the deceased Greeks, abroad, and one of them should be in the first three positions, which means that we will have, in the next Parliament, Members from the remote Greeks, at least with the image that we have to give to the outside. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that under today's particular juncture, and in the geopolitical but, more generally, in our national issues, voting unanimously for a bill of this importance gives a strong signal, both inside and outside Greece, and passes the message that national issues are harmonious, there is consensus, there is unity. That is why I invite you all tonight to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u66	Thank you too, Mr. Gika. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr Constantine Scandalidis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, starting with me it is impossible for me not to be tempted to comment on a debate that preceded us here. I would like to bring a contrast between the part read by our rapporteur, the part of Sefferis, which was referring to Greece and Hellenism and the way this debate took place here. I mean that Hellenism as a nation did not just teach democracy and equity, but there has always been a deep humanist nation. He conveyed his incoherent relationship with his liberal and renaissance spirit when being a enslaved enslaved European Renaissance and the era of Enlightenment. So patriotism, for us, is a strong, low-speaking and deep-speaking feeling that must be expressed at the critical moment, defending the fairs of a country, for which we must be proud, and at the same time humanitarian values. In recent years, they have invaded intolerance and hatred and divisions, but humanitarian values have been part of the experience and attitude of this people. Ladies and gentlemen, much talk is being done about the past. The data are very specific and we need to memorize them a little. The vote for the demigrant Greeks was, of course, anticipated in the 1975 Constitution in a general way. We must admit that at the time, beyond the political cost, or if you want the political feasibility, if you could live up to the electoral lists that were in existence, the electoral books and all this process, as well as the pre-declaration experience of elections, which were not done in the best way, it is clear that there was a huge climate of distrust that could not easily pass such legislation and be implemented. However, there was the 2001 review, which was made a number of other changes, such as the abolition of electoral books, their matching with the polls, the clearance of the budgets, the vote of the hetero-democrats, which has been successfully implemented, with a significant modernisation of the electoral process. There can be a serious criticism, in fact, of the political cost or other, calculated by the parties, whenever the debate on whether or not this law has to be done or how it should be done. But the conditions have now changed radically. Let's not just talk about the past. He radically changed the electorate's body. Seven hundred thousand young people in recent years have gone abroad, seeking their luck. They changed their contact and relationship with Greece. The means of communication between the citizen and political development in our country are quite different. People work abroad with what is happening in Greece and it's too easy for them. Our own democracy has changed and our own democracy has moved on. The electoral process has basically become more crystallised, there are no interventions outside, no election results have been questioned throughout the history of post-mopulation. And it changed even further the possibility for parties to influence the election result with the old, traditional form. Anyone who claims to be able to build a mechanism and spend so much money to transfer money - which can no longer carry a heterocret from here and take him to his place to vote - I think he's out of reality. There is no fear of seeing the whole process of democracy in a modern era, through the light of the old times, the old controversies, the old controversies, the old divisions. Even with time delay, now is the time. It allows it a superficial and unnecessarily deep review of the Constitution, which at least gives an opportunity in this part of many problems to finally find a solution. Now is the time when we have the opportunity, without having prejudice, to arrive at a real solution. There is the need for a constitutional majority, which I consider to be very important, as is the electoral law - which is not the same. I consider it very important, because this constitutional majority allows parties to consent to broader compositions in order to vote for a law that directly affects the election result and the election of the government. So this constitutional majority, however, forced the current political system to agree on a 'low' solution, a solution which is not in fact appropriate. The Foreign Minister made a considerable effort with the Intergroup. The parties also made considerable efforts. They stayed in their seats, gave their battle, said theirs each. We have reached a stubborn solution, a solution which unfortunately has been found to the genital organizations. No one can question that. People said it with the darkest colors. It is a solution that I fear will have problems since its first application, which I hope are not unsurpassed. It's a de facto transition solution. Our authorities from the first moment were crystal clear and I would like to say them very briefly. The first principle was that every citizen of the country who is written in her polls and feels Greek should be facilitated to exercise his inalienable right. So every citizen, inclusive, must facilitate and exercise his right. Secondly, the right to exercise this right is to be able to elect the government, the Prime Minister, the National Representation that will be running the country. So the equivalence of vote is not a choice of feasibility or correlations, it is not a choice that finds brakes on party calculations. It's a principle of democracy. Thirdly, because there is a community of problems abroad, because we are constantly seeking relationships, entering the choices, helping the country, because they have their own specific problems, because we always need them in matters of a national strategy, because their voice has to be heard in the national Parliament too, they have to be expressed in some way here. So they need to be represented in the Greek Parliament. Fourthly, in order to facilitate all these without exception, the most modern procedure must be provided for. When the epic vote was predicted in 2001, it was not for immediate application or for easy conditions to take place at that time. But today it is easy to have. Things went ahead. Democracy incorporates developments, incorporates new technologies, incorporates what can help it to express better, genuinely, more transparently. I claim that the epistle vote is clearly more transparent and unaffected than to set up, for example in Nevada, a electoral centre in a shop, to go the classic delegations of the parties, to go all the ballots there and to live things that we have lived in the past and have exceeded, at least in our country. On the contrary, dialectic vote is a clear relationship that has to do with science and technology. There are applications that we feared at first, but now they have been tested, they have proved crystal clear, and so we can protect the authentic relationship that each one of us will have with his vote and his relationship with Greece, his relationship with the Ministry of the Interior and the electoral lists that we have decided to do. I mean, that we have no courage to get out of the fabric of our party, if you like, patriotism or party feasibility. We do not have the courage to break down a bit of what keeps us moving backwards and does not let us move forward. I, ladies and gentlemen, am not here to have a political debate. It was and it would be a mockery in the House not to decide this time to vote on the abstainants. The refusal to deal with the issue would highlight us as heirs of a national debt. We are voting for a law, an incomplete solution, a law with compromises, which will obviously be supplemented at a later stage and I fear that the dubious political cost minimizes the universal political gain that has such a huge importance for us nationally. I believe that because there is going to be a great majority, I imagine, according to what I hear, and this majority will also be a large majority, I would like to call on the Ministry of Interior to reconvene the law that we voted on for its best first application, because now we will have to change it for the next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much Mr. Scandalides. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three educational attendants from the High School of Levidi Arcadia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Manolakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill reflects the Government's efforts to seek wider political consensus in order that the law required for it to be passed by two hundred MPs. The fulfilment of this constitutional requirement is an institutional and technically mature demand and obligation of our state in respect of a significant category of Greek citizens living abroad and their number has increased significantly in recent years because of the economic crisis. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have an opportunity to make up for a chronic lack of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-mortem-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipality. This government does not go along with the flag 'Everything or anything'. On the contrary, we have chosen to promote the national interest in the party's intransigence, which is characteristic of all the governments of New Democracy. We made retreats from our original position and sacrificed our proposal for letter vote. We have accepted SYRIZA's proposal in more than three of the fifteen votes cast by the parties will place candidates from the same family, one of them being placed in the first three voting positions. We have also taken serious account of the proposal by the Communist Party concerning the concept of a bond link linking the family to the homeland and incorporating proof of presence in Greece on the basis of public documents. I understand, however, that the vast majority of Greeks abroad disagrees with the restriction on the proof of a two-year permanent presence in Greece over the last thirty-five years. However, at the moment the above cross-party consensus steps are the common place and are a necessary and capable treaty so that this legislative initiative does not fall short of the gap. I am personally in favour of the right of lettering or e-voking, as has been the case for many years in other European countries. Any concerns about a diabetic system I do not think they are right because we are at the 2020 threshold and it is incomprehensible to admit that we cannot with new technology ensure that the electoral process is inconsistent. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a very broad consensus, which I think will also be seen during the vote, but I cannot underline that it places restrictions on a very large part of the Greeks abroad. Are there any injustices and obstacles? Of course they do. We hope, however, that the years will be lifted. Are there any criteria? Of course they exist, and they are there to prevent the undermining of the institution. I cannot, however, recognise that it is going almost half a century since the historic moment that the National Lord Constantine Karamanlis and the New Democracy, as a government at that time, for the first time established his vote by democratic Hellenism, a provision of the Constitution which remains inactive. Today we come to finish what forty-five years ago we left in the middle. In this way we take the first step to give voice to the Greeks of the Diaspora and to the political events of the mother country. I call on the Greeks abroad to be activated and registered on the electoral lists so that the laws on the vote of emigrants can function. The Greeks wherever we are have the country in our hearts, we carry the love for Greece and the responsibility to protect it and we want to have a say in the decisions that are made about it. With this piece of legislation, which I am also voting for, I take the opportunity to appeal to all Greeks outside the territory to see with realism, understanding and above all with optimism the arrangements taken, arrangements that undoubtedly represent a small step forward and cover even partly a chronic and consequently just request for active participation in the celebration of democracy, which was born here in our country, Greece, and make the MP from a simple representative of the Greek people to a representative of the Greek nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too. Mr Dionysios Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy. He had asked for the floor to speak at 14.00 p.m. Mr. Claus Gregoriadis from Mera25. He will speak immediately afterwards, take a breath, because he has come directly from the conference. Here, Mr Stamenitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is undoubtedly a historic day for the unscrupulous Greeks. The Ministry of Interior bill is of particular political and national importance. It is undeniably a great institutional division, which is now taking place, by the current government of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and by the Ministry of Interior. We are discussing today and we are calling on to ratify with our vote the self-evident and democratic right of Greeks and Greeks living abroad to be able to vote in the national elections, in the European elections and in the national referendums from their place of residence, a constitutionally guaranteed right which, for reasons of lack of political will and technical problems and other political priorities, has indeed remained inactive for many years. The current government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis raised the issue as one of the main priorities and achieved it. Through dialogue, understanding and retreat, we have reached the first and historic step, namely to discuss today and to be prepared to make this right of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the original position of the New Democracy, as expressed and in force today, was that the vote at the place of residence should take place without restrictions and without discrimination. The most appropriate way to achieve this was to establish the letter vote, as has been done for years in all democratic and civilised states in the world. Our Constitution, as has been the case since 2001, requires 200 votes to implement this facility. This means that if these votes are not gathered, the law cannot be passed by the House and so we would lose another great opportunity. Since the rest of the parties did not have the same view of us, the great dilemma was raised: Or we remain unresolved in our positions, or we proceed to concessions in order to achieve the convergence of the political forces required. In this case, the Greek Government responded positively to this historic challenge. He chose the way for understanding, which he tried to achieve on the minimum common denominator. Because in the face of facilitating the vote of the Greeks of the Diaspora, we believe that what unites us is and must be more than separate from what separates us. On the big issues we have to prove in practice that we can confront, go beyond the dividing lines and the contradictions and act by looking at the future. After all, ladies and gentlemen, the practical obstacles that existed were a major and deep wound to the country that was born and blossomed the democratic community. As far as the provisions of the bill are concerned, I should like to outline the five main points that have come to light and the convergence: the conduct of the vote with the presence of the electorate in elections to be set up in embassies, consular posts or in other places by serving transparency, parity in the vote of voters and counting on the overall election result, serving democracy, increasing Members from twelve to fifteen to allow Greeks to participate, criteria for listing in the electoral lists to be the stay for two years in Greece for the last thirty-five years, and the submission of a tax declaration either in the current or the previous tax year. Finally, the completion of the revision of Article 54 of the Constitution, so that the restrictions in point 4 are compatible with the Constitution. Of course, we have expressed it on many occasions that we are aiming for the same process through the participation of voters and their choices in the coming years to convince other political forces, so that we can lead with the greatest consensus that will remove the restrictions and discrimination provided for in this draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote of this bill requires it by history. Our country, through the values and ideas it gave birth to and the global cultural heritage it offered in the world, is very great to close it at the narrow geographical limits. In the face of this great legacy and what Hellenism symbolizes, we must stand responsibly and in a spirit of unity, do our duty as members of the National Representation. After ten years of economic crisis, court dilemmas, emerging the pathogens of the political system, voting for the assignment, facilitations of the vote of the Greeks of the Diaspora are a first-class opportunity for the political staff of the country to prove that he learned from his mistakes and can now recognize when the national interest requires consent and when he requires consent. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks who live outside the territory are people who defend our national interests. They are a strong card in supporting our foreign policy. They are the best ambassadors in our country, the ones holding Greece up. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by saying that the diffusion is an integral part of Hellenism and must be able to express itself in the poll. I, too, invite you all to support this draft law of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor, Mr Theodorikos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for one minute I take the floor to put forward five legislative improvements - additions, which I would ask all my fellow Members, so that I do not read them. I want to focus on what I assess as more important. First of all, it's the following. The Intergroup Committee under the Minister of the Interior for the Crisis and Evaluation of Applications and Procedures concerning the applications of Greeks abroad, the rapporteur is appointed a representative of the Independent Authority of the Citizens' Counsel, in all cases, without voting rights. The second concerns the following. In the second subparagraph of paragraph 3 of Article 2 of the draft law, the words ‘10 years’ relating to the electoral lists shall be replaced by ‘8 years’. This is more symbolic on the substance, so that this 'catches' can also be removed from the debate, because in reality the renewal of the electoral lists is continuous on the basis of the applications and the whole procedure. Finally, as regards the last subparagraph of Article 34A(2), Presidential Decree 26/2012 of Article 32 of the draft law, the words ‘one fifth (1/5)’ relating to the question of Member States from non-national Greeks, registered on the electoral lists abroad, are replaced by ‘at least one fifth (1/5)’.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much. Please be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u75	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u76	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u77	I would like to ask a clarification question on an issue that you have raised and from the Scientific Service on the committee's decisive competence, I think it has not been read. Just clarify it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u78	You can see the modifications. He's inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u79	Please be distributed. Mr Claus Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative from Mera25. Mr Gregoriadis, surrender to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to grant the right to equitable vote to all the Greeks who live away from Greece, but insist that they really care and care about their country of origin and not just to vote against them by treating them as a new pool of potential voters, which we are simply trying to exploit as best as we can, we must at last face them all as they deserve and not as second-class citizens and thus second-class citizens. The draft law which comes today for a vote in the House of course enables the migrants to vote in their place of residence, but deprives them of the right to crusade. This creates a new and truly unreasonable inequality, in our view, compared to all of us other voters, a category of voters, since they, the new voters, will, of course, be able to vote but will not be able to send their chosen representatives to the House. In other words, we have equal votes with one vote of the interior having the same weight as one vote of the outside in the final vote, but in total, we do not have such an equal vote, since the voters in Greece choose and the MPs choose, while the non-Greeks only choose a party. It is worth noting here that the people we are talking about today retain the right to crusade, if they simply come to Greece to vote, which I am sorry to say, in my opinion, is introducing a small clause of overrealism in this bill, since once it becomes the law of the state, it will actually tell our destitute compatriots: You can the same man travel back home, if you have the financial capacity and the time for this, and then you will have the right to the full vote that gives you apart from the party's choice and the choice of people who want to represent you or you can relax, stay and vote restfully and inexpensively and inexpensively in your country, only then your vote is bogged at what, that is, you lose the right of the cross. As much as I fight, ladies and gentlemen, within me there is absolutely no reason why the same natural person should be allowed to withdraw a right whenever he is outside the borders of his home country and automatically returned to him once he is again within the borders. I would like to say in other words that obviously every person, every person can only have, or have, a right and in any case cannot in any case remove this right or not be linked to geographical or other parameters. It's absurd. Don't you see it? Unless it is a kind of punishment that the legislator holds for the poor or lame deportees in contrast to a reward for those who really sweat the "feel" and can, but are also willing, put a deep hand in the pocket for the homeland. Soon if we continue on this road, I fear that we will be asking them to take part in any dangerous missions to prove their nationally minded zeal and thus be able to vote equally. It is absurd and creates a new group of Greek citizens who have reduced electoral rights against the rest. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it makes the draft law unacceptable to us and is sufficient to vote against it. Another surreal, but somehow, let me say, a comic note to this draft law is that, although the Greeks abroad will not be able to choose MPs, except those pre-selected in the State Vote, but o of the miracle, if they are somewhere in the European Union, they will normally be able to cross candidates, as well as to participate in possible referendums. In other words, these very natural persons lose a crucial right to national elections, but they retain it in the European elections. It's kind of absurd, too. Does all this really make you condolence any sense? You also know, we fear that there is no point in increasing the number of Members of the European Parliament from twelve to fifteen, since it has nothing to do with the vote on the motions for resolutions. It is simply a question that needs to be resolved, which the government has decided to put into electoral law, and therefore in a way is a small mockery. As a small mockery is also to legislate today the party's obligation to include the list of their Territorial Cardboard at least one from a presidential candidate on positions one to three, when all of them had citizenship, had and retained the right to be a candidate on any list of any Greek party. Many have done so. For example, in the last elections that we have been put in the House, we had two migrant candidates on the list of State. The second reason for voting against this bill is that it does not facilitate the presumption of young people and we hope for temporary immigrants, namely students and workers abroad, as you all know, children of the crisis. So it is not easy for this bill to be able to vote from their countries of residence in the constituency where they have always voted, before they leave, in other words by electing Members there. That is a request that has not been accepted. We think it is very reasonable to accept it. Furthermore, the condition of the cumulative presence of the demonstration in Greece for a total of two years over the last thirty-five years should not, in our opinion, be a condition on which it is dependent as fundamental as the right to vote and not such a presence, in our view, once again implies and in any way demonstrates a special interest in the relationship between the voter and the fate of the country and its governance. It may just be a month a year - to make it simpler - just because it was just nostalgic about the country's nice temperate climate. At least in this bill - to say a good word - there is no provision in any way for the letter vote. That finds us, as you know, absolutely in agreement, since at this stage we believe that such a vote would be potentially unreliable, because there are no guarantees to ensure the confidentiality and fairness of the vote. Also, the mere possession of VAT, the tax registration number, does not find us in disagreement. We agree. We also welcome it, since it gives us the opportunity to use taxisnet. However, the criteria of economic activity in the bill, such as the appearance of a pledge on the exercise of the right to vote in a country like our own with unprecedented unemployment for 11 years, have been totally opposed to us, since we consider it unacceptable to exercise electoral rights and economic activity and taxation. In conclusion, we should note all three small victories achieved by Mera25 during the consultation of this bill and concern some changes that were made either on the initiative or after our pressure. First change. The government has been reviewed by Article 54 of the Constitution, including towards the future possibility of creating elections outside Greece, as we in Mer25 have long insisted on asking. It is crucial and if we do not want to be mocked, these people have the right to vote in regions where they live. There they are concerned, there they live, and there it is very important for their regions to be there and for them to be there as well. Secondly, the draft legislation included the use of the taxisnet platform, as I said before, for the declaration of registration in the special electoral lists, which is the only one suitable for such a thing, which we believe should be further extended to various other areas. Thirdly and lastly, the use of the constitutional option of schizophrenic vote has been eliminated. Ladies and gentlemen, we would have felt much better if we had succeeded in getting you out of the bill of inadmissible discrimination and inequality in the right of crusade between voters inside and outside the country. That would be a really big victory, which we must leave for later. For the time being, both us and the Greek Democrats must be content with the three small ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u81	Thank you and congratulations on keeping time, namely nine minutes and twenty-seven seconds in twelve minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take note of the fact that the Special Parliamentary Committee ‘to carry out a preliminary examination of the investigation of offences that may have been committed by the former Minister of Justice Dimitris Papagelopoulos in the performance of his duties’, for which the plenary session of the House has set a deadline for submitting its findings on 16 December 2019, asks in writing for its extension until 17 March 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u82	Does the House agree to allow an extension of the conclusion to be given until 17 March 2020?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u83	The House unanimously agreed. The reason is now Mrs Chabika Iatridis from New Democracy and beautiful Rhodes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today is a special day for all the emigrant Greeks, for all the emigrant Greeks. It is today a special day for all our compatriots and all our compatriots, who for various historical, social and economic reasons were found away from their homeland, away from Greece. It is today also a special day for the Dodecanese foreigners who live and divest outside Greece. As a Dodecanese, I feel very happy today, because I know that, throughout the globe, islands and islanders in other countries feel that they are closer to us, feel that they are closer to their homeland, feel that they continue and are a vital part of Hellenism, feel that they are at the same time institutions of Greek culture, tradition and Greek labouring throughout the world. I can only say today, from this step, to the Dodecanese people who are scattered across all the continents, to the United States of America and Canada, and to all the organisations of our islands, Patmos, Leros, Symi, Niyros, Rhodes, North America, to the Dodecanese Communities in Australia, Europe and Africa, to the Kalymnians, who have been in Florida, the United States of America for many years, and even there had been elected mayor of Kalymnos in the Tarponese region, Mr Chris Alahuzos. All of these Dodecanese foreigners, but of course all of our other Greek compatriots, have always had their minds and hearts in Greece, always had our country's progress. Let me refer here and here to a historical incident, as an eminent Dodecanese scientist, Mr Miltiadis Logotis, said. More specifically, in America the well-known ‘Dodecanese Youth’ was formed. In this youth, a leading role was played by Manos Athanasiadis from Gennadi, James Kazavis from Nisros, Hatzimichalis and Manosos from Kos and others. In fact, when they discussed in Paris in July 1946 the Treaty of Peace for the concession of the Dodecanese to Greece and the Greek delegation wanted to inform the US about the Dodecanese question, they said: "We don't need to. We have been informed by the Nisyrians, the Rodites and the Karpathians of America." I mention this in order to show with this example among so many other things how important Greekism is for our country over time, and this is why today voting for the bill by all the Members is a minimum sign of recognition of this value and an essential way of showing that we are actually spreading our hands to our displaced compatriots. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very close to voting on a bill which significantly facilitates Greeks and Greek women abroad in the exercise of their electoral right. We all agree that this bill should have been passed by the Greek Parliament many years ago. But we are here today to look into the future, to look forward. This is what the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis do. We promised the Greeks and Greek women that we would promote a bill for the vote of the demigrant Greeks and it was our real commitment, because all the Greeks feel their country as their family. They have, after all, left here members of their family. In order to vote for this bill, I cannot say the wholehearted will of the Interior Minister, Mr Theodorikos and the Deputy Minister, Mr Lebanese, to make a composition of the New Democracy's views with the views of the parties to the conflict. Our country needs composition and we can avoid division and removal. Could the bill be more bold? I think it could. In any case, the positions of the New Democracy are bold and respond to the modern data, but also to the positions of the perpetrators of the Greeks who travelled and submitted their views to the committees of the Parliament. The permanent position of the New Democracy on the issue of the vote on the results was widely known and our position was summarized in the possibility of all Greeks from abroad voting at their homes, even by written vote. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u85	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much. However, the New Democracy Government has given priority at last to making an important step towards facilitating the vote on revenue rather than losing one more chance, and I believe that there has been an honest attitude on the part of the government and that there has also been a positive response from the opposition parties. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a unique opportunity for us all to respond to the modern needs and the challenges facing Hellenism. Turkey's aggression in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean, the issue of immigration as a lever of pressure from our neighbouring country and its reformation, needs the best possible answers. These are diplomatically given by the Government and Mr Mitsotakis. But at this historic juncture it is assumed that Hellenism must appear unified, united and decisive. We are thus giving the necessary and clear signal not only to Turkey, but to our partners, that Hellenism has the necessary power and power to influence decisions, to define developments. That is why today this bill must be voted on by all of us, because first and foremost, it gives rise to a climate of confidence, a climate of understanding, a climate of arrogant front, which we need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, too. From the Dodecanese, we're going to the plain of Larissa. Mrs Stella Biziu has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are before a bill of historical importance, a bill of top national importance, I would say, because it is about the Hellenism of the world. We often speak in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, by emiting the message that we do not have contact with all that really concerns the Greeks. It is a point of criticism that Parliament accepts from a large part of the citizens. This bill, therefore, refers to all Greeks, to all those who, for many different reasons, are today out of the geographical boundaries of our country. So we have to answer the question: What is home? Some may sound a rhetorical question, others may sound a question of a deep ideological texture. However, for those who have lived and worked abroad, for those who have been away from Greece this question becomes an existential one. Ladies and gentlemen, only over the last five hundred thousand young people, people of my age, with dreams and plans for the future, have been forced to emigrate, to leave behind everything that they have been tied up with and to look for opportunities abroad. All these young people are added to the numerous Greeks, who live and breathe at the ends of the world, lifting up the Greek flag, when we have remained here sometimes as a simple cloth. All these people, the Greeks abroad, the best ambassadors in our country on the planet, have their eyes in this Chamber today. So today's bill is a continuation of the constitutional review that we recently discussed. It is a bill that seeks to activate the constitutional requirement to facilitate the vote on the fraud and rationalisation of the procedures of electoral law. The position of the New Democracy on this matter is well known. All Greeks, who are abroad, must have the right to vote from the country in which they are, without exceptions, without discrimination and restrictions. It is incomprehensible that the country, which has given birth to democracy to date deprive Greeks of the right to vote outside its borders. With this position, the whole of the Greek-democratic system is the same. It was also expressed in every way during the consultation of the bill by the representatives of the family organizations. But we must not stand up today to what could be done, but to see success. We were determined not to let the opportunity go lost and we did it. We were determined to secure the right to vote on our relatives and we did so. To achieve this, we have chosen the strategy of reasonable compromises, as the Minister of Interior said. We are the culmination of consensus and extroversion, and we have proved it once again. The sign of consensus was given by the Prime Minister himself, who took initiatives with a view to reaching agreement and mutual retreat at his meetings with the leaders of the parties. The main objective for the New Democracy was to find a common place with the other political forces and not small-party pursuits. The question for the New Democracy was to secure the right to vote as much as possible and we have done so. For the first time the Greeks have the right to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, based on the estimates of the General Secretariat of the Greek Government, the Greeks abroad are around five million and live in a hundred forty countries of the world, and the total number of Greeks who migrated abroad during the crisis touches the five hundred thousand. These people, the educated, the scientists, the farmers, the workers, all of them all, must bring them back. The ties of the family with the homeland are timeless and inseparable. We do not do them a favor today by giving them the right to vote, we make up for an injustice, even if only partially. The contents of this bill must be voted on by all Greek MPs. It will be a symbolic message of unity, a message to the Hellenism of the earth. Greek homosexuals have proved by their work that wherever they live they care about the interests of Greece. We owe them little respect by recognising their self-evident right to vote so that they can contribute not only with their actions, but also with their vote in the promotion of our national pursuits, by choosing the government and the Prime Minister of Greece. I would like to conclude by saying, rather, a Greek as I read it during the public consultation of the bill: 'Get us closer to home'. Let us do this, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us. Let's bring the Greeks near home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, too. Mrs Maria Head of New Democracy and the Yannina had the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin today's speech a little differently. “ Dear Maria, I would like to thank you very much for your success, even though I have been abroad for six and a half years and have not been able to participate unfortunately in the electoral process. I hope it's something that changes. I wish it'd finally happen. My colleagues asked me what I voted for and when I told them that there was no possibility, they wondered. Yours sincerely, Paul." This is one of the first messages I received after the elections on 7 July. It is by a fellow doctor who has left the crisis and is now working in Austria. He's one of the scientists of the well-known Brain-Drain. That's why I'm next door happy today that a chronic request from the Greeks is getting flesh and bone. What? But they can vote at their place of residence in a credible, constitutionally correct and democratic manner. I am happy for Paul, but also Dimitris, Sofia, Tassos, Alexandra and the other Greeks, who live somewhere abroad: Because this draft law regulates the constitutional provision for the exercise of the electoral right of those who on the day of national elections and of the European elections or during a national referendum are outside the territory. Why we make it easier for Greek voters and allow them to exercise their right to vote in the headquarters of each of the Greek diplomatic authorities where they are distributed according to their diplomatic district. Why should they be able to participate in the political process and maintain their ties with the mother - home, as required by the Constitution, rather than remain simple viewers of developments, but have an important role in the formulation of political things and feel that developments in their country affect them directly, so that we are all Greeks assembled against all these external threats and the dangers they face. In addition, we are discussing the right of Greek voters who live abroad to vote in Greece. For many years the unanswered question arises who has the right to say 'no' to the vote of someone who lives abroad either because of need or because of desire. During the recent process of Revision of the Constitution, the New Democracy Government returned to the public debate its proposal for Greeks to be able to vote abroad from home. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, along with the leadership of the Ministry of Home Affairs, opened open consultations with all the parties in the House, in order to achieve the broadest possible consensus and ensure the required 2/3 majority of Members in the Constitution. Because on a top issue of democracy, a responsible government must operate. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we practically show to all Greeks in every corner of the earth that their homeland embraces them. Those who refuse to make it easier for the Greeks to vote at their home place actually give the right to vote only for those who have the financial opportunity to travel to Greece, because there can be no Greeks of two speeds and two categories. We want the vote of the Greeks abroad to be equivalent to the Greeks' vote in the interior and it is not an additional right, but a facility, because it is an inalienable right for the Greeks to reconcile with their vote the emergence of the political power in question. Did we do the best? No, it's not the best. It's the result of a compromise. Some retreats had to be made so that the opportunity would not be lost again. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to make politically active and to give a voice to the numerous community of Greek citizens living outside the country's borders. Today we are helping the Brain-Drain children and all those who left in the years of crisis not to cut off the umbilical cord with Greece. Today we are voting in favour of this draft law giving all of them the right to participate in shaping the political situation in the country. Today we are voting in favour of a historic bill, characterised by national unity and national consensus, and there is not one reason for its vote. Today we are forging ties that are essential to the Greek state of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too. SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos asked for the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly an important day for the National Representation today, as we are called upon and discussing a draft law, which concerns the vote on the impoverished, a democratic institutional retreat of many years. Already since the 1975 Constitution, the corresponding provision had been made. Of course it is important that a climate has been established which allows for a joint debate today. But from the outset I want to clean three things up: First of all, because the Greek citizens are listening to us with interest and certainly are following our debate and our out-of-presidents abroad, I would like to say that we are not talking about the right to exercise the electoral right. Let us be clear, we are talking about facilitation. This is important because, over the past period, a picture has been created that there is a tendency to exclude the remote Greeks from the possibility of voting. This does not exist to God. We must be clear and stress that we are talking here about facilitating the exercise of the electoral right in the places where they live. The second issue concerning the SYRIZA attitude: we have come from the outset in a very positive and constructive spirit. In fact, as our rapporteur, Mr Katrugalos, has said, our basic principle, since the beginning of this debate, was that there should be the possibility of voting, voice and representation for the Greek-presidented. Moreover, if we are here today and have the opportunity to discuss this bill, which the government has brought, it is precisely because the majority of the SYRIZA in the previous parliament in which it was proposed that, in its proposal, it should open Article 54, to give the constitutional framework for the existence of today's proposal for a law. Also, the present colleague, the former Interior Minister, Alexis Haritsis, with whom he took over the Minister of the Interior last autumn, set up as you know a committee at the Ministry of Interior, as you know, which resulted in a conclusion after a few months, on the basis of the vote that had been taken at the time by the government in the summer, "KLISTEN", which, as you know, had not been voted on by all parties and had not been supported by the New Democracy party. We say this because there must be a restoration of the truth and there must be no impression that some are more or less in favour of voting, making it easier for the right to be exercised. The third issue concerns consensus. Because some expressions have been heard earlier that it is a coercive one, I believe that the constitutional legislature has rightly introduced the enhanced majority of two hundred votes on this matter after 2001, because that is precisely why - and there is the whole case, on which all of us are discussing and trying so much - this issue does not just affect the electoral process, it is not just a simple electoral law, but it is an issue which, potentially, affects the expression of its own popular sovereignty, the outcome of the elections and the possibility of forming a government. So this landscape is clear as far as our basic principles and directions are concerned. For my part, I would also like to stress that the original proposal of the SYRIZA and the proposal for a law, which we tabled in September, was intended and intended precisely for Greeks to be able to vote in local elections and, at the same time, this is done with respect to the democratic principle, that this impact on the election results should not be present and, of course, taking into account the great European and international experience and jurisprudence on all these issues. A detailed reference has been made earlier by our rapporteur, Mr Katrugalo, and by many colleagues from opposition parties. In any case, however, when we were invited by the Minister to this intergroup debate, we came in a very positive and constructive spirit, because we want and wish to see consensus, provided that some basic principles are respected. So the reality is that the proposal tabled by the Communist Party of Greece was an important proposal, which facilitated a move of positions and a basis for discussion and consensus. And here we must state and it is clear that the New Democracy, too, has made a strategic shift. In the original proposal of the New Democracy, we had a clear objection, that is, on the one hand, to the question of the letter of vote, but, on the other hand, to the uncertainty about the electoral lists and, on the other hand, to the democratic principle and the influence on the final outcome of the elections, which, in a detailed way, the rapporteur and the committee have had the opportunity to highlight, but also, the rapporteur's report on the draft law, tabled by the Ministry of the Interior, acknowledges that, namely, those conditions and restrictions, which come precisely to ensure that the way in which this right is exercised by the outgoing voters does not affect the direction of the final result. In fact, as has been said, we are talking about conditions and safeguards for matching. So that was the fundamental change, which also made it easier for us in this debate to be constructive and positive. The truth is that the original draft law, which came to Parliament, had a number of issues where we had remarks. A lot of them have been reported. I think, however, and I would like to acknowledge that there was a good mood on the part of the Minister at the meeting of the committee, and that is how many of the proposals - not all of them, have been heard - have we other opposition parties also put forward. It was clear to us that, as far as the draft law was concerned, since the preconditions and logic of weighting the vote on redundancies were now laid down, the need to respect two basic principles became clear. The first was to do with the intact vote. In other words, this is an unprecedented process that we have before us. It is unprecedented and I think there is no interest in any shadow. That is why we have made three specific proposals. We said, first of all, that there should be a intergroup committee. We do not question the ability and experience of the addresses of the Ministry of Interior. However, this is an issue where this supervision and the control role need to be played. And I would like to say that it is a good thing, Mr Minister, that you mentioned that in this intergroup, he will be a rapporteur without a vote, the representative of the Citizens' Co-Chairman and will also have decisive powers. This is clearly recognised and must be made clear. Secondly, we stressed that the lists cannot remain for ten years without being updated. You took one step. We think it should be more tactical to update the electoral lists so that there is in practice no extension for the thirty-five years. Of course, the third issue, for which we do not yet have a specific response from the Minister, but we would like to ask until the end of the procedure to consider it very seriously, is the issue of delegations. I think that my colleague from the Communist Party of Greece has put it too. These licences have characteristics, which are also regulatory. Even the Scientific Committee of the Parliament in its report refers to a number of issues by saying that it might have been better for some of these issues to have been included in the very body of the draft law. So, Minister, we would like in this spirit the consensual and positive we have come, to see them very seriously. We must also not forget that in all the other issues relating to the architecture and nature of the draft law, the maximum consensus has now been reached by recognising the need for a substantial real link and the conditions laid down. That was the key to meeting the different approach, which had most opposition parties. The other issue we have raised - and there the Minister, and we acknowledge it, has accepted it and even improved it with his current legislative correction - is about the right to vote. For us that was a key issue. That's why we said we had two issues with the bill. One was the guarantees of transparency, transparency of procedure, the other with regard to the right to vote. Although we initially had a more increased number of possibilities, of course, to be elected by the national parliamentarians, even this is a big step, because it makes it binding on candidates from the Member States to be elected by the nationality of the people. So this is certainly a positive step and I think it is also a conquest of the entire effort of joint processing and consultation. To close, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly an important day today. It is important, since we can all or at least by a large majority take this democratic step. I believe that from the point of view of Officerial Response we have made a very great effort to reach agreement. That is why, Minister, I would like to end - and I would like to ask you, with your thoughts, in the future, to implement this law in the future, but above all in the first implementation of the law, which is to be judged in fact - by all the rapporteurs - the validity of the procedure, the soundness of the procedure and transparency, to consider both the last two comments we have made on the election procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the 4th General High School of Corinth (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Georgios Kotsos, Member of the Karditsa Parliament of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as far as I have understood from the position of representatives of all the wings of the House, we all understand the need for Greeks to vote for the diaspora where land is concerned. Of course, it is true that each political wing, depending on its ideology, with its particular approaches, puts its own parameter on this subject. However, it is the responsibility of the government and the Minister to find the common component of all these different attitudes and opinions and to reconcile them within a legislature. This makes today's draft law, which we are discussing and which is a great success both by Mr Mitsotakis and by the New Democracy and the Minister, because they managed to co-exist, to find the common component of all the perceptions that exist in Parliament. I hope and hope that even those who have little doubts at the end of the procedure will vote in favour of this historic bill, because we are actually, ladies and gentlemen, currently writing history. I could parallel today's decision, the current draft law with the corresponding one, when women were given the right to vote, because we truly recognise the right to help and contribute to the formation of the political life of our country all Greek women, all Greeks who live abroad and are an integral part of Hellenism. The difficult years that Hellenism passed after the war and the difficult years of the crisis forced too many of our compatriots to look for better luck, going to foreign countries, to deal with problems that had to do with their living or indeed to shape a better career. A numerous community of Greeks and Greek citizens has therefore been created and there is an undeniable need to forge substantial links between Greeks and our country, with Greece, with participation in the formation of our country's political situation, as indicated in the report of the National Committee on Human Rights in December '17. The vote of foreign voters has been taken by the legislature since 1975, and the vote of foreign voters is currently in a hundred and fifteen countries. Of course, each country has its own views on this particular process. And here too, it is that the government comes and even though it would like a more advanced procedure for the vote of the homosexuals, such as the editorial vote - which I too find very agreeable and I think does not have any risk of altering the outcome - but with this draft law, it shows how diverse, consensual and synthetic it is. So when there are proposals from the other parties - and that is a rule of democracy, it is a rule of culture, it is a rule of progress - these proposals are evaluated and harmonised in the final draft law that is now being tabled. This is how we, the New Democracy and all of you, build the foundations for the country that we are envisioning and it is an opportunity to show our unity through this draft law, which must distinguish us as a people and vote for it, at an important moment for our country that you see is being put by many external dangers and imposes these external risks, these difficult times that Hellenism is going through to tackle them with unity and with a combination of all the forces of Hellenism wherever the Greeks and Greeks are, whatever ideological and political approach they may have. This sovereign national objective of national unity, of national understanding, comes to serve this draft law, in an attempt to achieve the greatest possible consensus within Parliament in order to achieve the first and most important step, which is to start the process of voting the homosexuals. In our country, with the present draft law, the first, most essential step is to open up this process. And you know that the beginning is half of everything. A Roman comedyist, Terentius, says: "I am a man, nothing is foreign to me." Let us have this as a noble slogan within us, a noble slogan that will determine our times and, of course, overcome any contradictions, controversies or individual differences in this matter and see the great goal, to see the great reed that is to incorporate Greeks and Greeks into our political system, wherever they are. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As time is short, I would like to call on the whole of this House to vote in favour of the bill and to be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that this is how we contribute to the fortification of national unity. At the same time, let us be sure that, by voting for the bill, we will give the Greeks of the Greeks, who are currently supporting their material, cultural and emotional relations with our country, with our Greece, the possibility of gaining political responsibility through the vote and the formation of the governments in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, too. We should leave Karditsa and go up to Castoria and stay in New Democracy. My colleague, Mr Zeishis Jekalayas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if I described today as important, it might have been a little bit. If I described it historically, maybe this designation was not an exaggeration. For the first time in the history of the modern Greek state, today, the Greek Parliament decides to give the right to vote to all Greeks, not only to the inhabitants of today's Greek state, but also to those where they are everywhere. Where? How can I characterize them? It's so rich in Greek! Should I tell the universal Hellenism? The Greek diaspora? The Greeks, the Greeks, the Greeks, the Greeks, you collect them? It is a great day for our democracy. The New Democracy has a stable position over voting in all Greeks, where land, always, with all the Presidents, over the years. However, in particular in the last four years, with the assumption of the Presidency by Mr Mitsotakis, he set it a primary objective. It was our election commitment and we are proud today to bring it to the National Representation! I cannot, of course, say that the opposition parties have shown national consensus and consciousness and cooperation on this big issue, and despite the fact that the final text is not what the New Democracy would like, but it is today a very important step. In the short time available, Mr President, I shall try briefly to quote some historical - perhaps ethnic - demographic data on the route of Hellenism in the centuries. Greeks have been observed since 3000 BC, so we have a five-year-old story. We passed through the Athenian Republic, when the cities of states, the state of Alexander the Great, of Macedonia. After Christ we had the Hellenistic times, the Greek-Roman times, the years of the mighty Byzantine Empire, after the dark years of the Ottoman Empire. Then and in those years it is known that we have had a great Dissemination of Hellenism in Asia Minor, in deep Asia Minor, in Cappadomia, in Pontus, not only the well-known Pontus of today's Turkey, but also above, there in Abkhazia, in Sohumi, in Marupolis, in Chalka, Georgia. Maybe it's not a legend, the legend of the golden blonde. It's certain he has historical data. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] After that, we arrived in the modern Greek state that was created in 1821 with liberation, when essentially Greece was almost just Romoli and Morias, through a path of liberation struggles, in 1864 Thessaly, Crete later. In 1912 with the Macedonian Struggle Macedonia was released, in 1924 Thrace, and since 1947 the modern Greek state has stopped with the incorporation of the Dodecanese, as my colleague said. So all these years we have been migrating. Most of all, migrations start from the end of the 19th century, from 1880 onwards. Immigration is becoming more pronounced in the early 20th century. We also have in the Middle War. We arrive in the 1940s, where we had many casualties and the struggles against the Italians, the Germans, the Bulgarians. Unfortunately, we had losses in the Civil War as well. Since 1950 the largest migration has begun, particularly toward America, Australia and some countries in Europe, mainly in Germany. Hellenism has, for example, increased from the unpleasant events of 1922, the Asia Minor Destruction or earlier of the Pontus Genocide. We had the disaster there, but with forced immigration in the country the population has increased and certainly the local element has been stimulated both in Macedonia and Thrace. Until 1980, Minister, although we had a great deal of immigration, the demographic indicators were strong and the problem was not so big. The problem can be said to start substantially after 1980, where we have low demographic indicators and that is one of the other arguments that we need to unite even more as Greeks. This is because if we are living in Greece today - and this is so, together with others - about 10 million Greeks are counting on the Greeks of the diaspora - no matter how large the figure - is about seven million if we put the Greekism of America, Australia, Europe, the Pontou and the depth of the former Soviet Union or of the present Russia and the other former states. Since I do not have time, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by pointing out that in the difficult days in which Hellenism passes, the threats that we mainly accept from the East, the current bill should be a starting point to forge deeper national unity. We have so much more to achieve than that much less that separates us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, too. Mr Anastasiades from New Democracy has the floor and immediately thereafter Mr Kotronis from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that there will be no one today in this Chamber who disagrees that today's bill we are discussing and relating to the exercise of the electoral right of Greeks abroad from their homes is a matter of the utmost importance, national importance and of course of historical importance for Greece. Of course, it is important that the perspective you are dealing with is that if we are dealing with it in close party terms - benefactors, if you would like - if we believe that if we give this right, there is a possibility that some opposition parties or camps - will be strengthened, which is not, in fact, the case, because those who are following our compatriots abroad know that there are tendencies created by the political tendencies prevailing and created in this period in our country - or if someone sees it from a wider perspective, in a more broad sense, in their true dimension, national and universal. I will not dwell on technical issues at all, namely what the positions of the parties were, what the New Democracy was about, what terms and conditions were laid down by the opposition parties. I will, however, stand by and highlight the transcendence which has been made and made by the New Democracy and the compromise, retreating from its initial positions, so that we can finally achieve this request for for forty-five years from the Greeks abroad, in other words vote for their place of residence and are represented by the increase in the seats of the Greek Parliament. And, of course, we must also stand up to the negotiating capacity of the present Minister for the Interior, who, with a lot of flexibility, has compromised almost all the trends and managed to bring in a bill, which is voted on almost by Parliament as a whole. He is, of course, worthy of credit, but also of the parties for their consent, which he has shown on this matter. Apart from the technical issues, the terms and the conditions, which it puts on each side and which have dealt with us in the last few days, but also today in the debate, we must not be missed - and I think that is the important thing - the fact of influence, influence, activation and response that this bill will have in the Greeks abroad. Because I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is how the Greek Parliament and Greece open up new bridges, new roads to reconnection and communication with Greeks abroad and - if you like - and they regain the relationship between Greeks abroad and Greece, not only with the first generation, but also with the second and third generations which are in danger of losing its roots and its links with Greece. I think that is the main reason why we in the New Democracy were calling for a free and universal vote to enable all Greeks abroad, of course, to vote in national elections. Because we must not be missed, ladies and gentlemen, that we are a nation which has not been restricted to the borders of a state since the day before. Greeks abroad are estimated to account for about 1/3 of the population of Greece, otherwise they may be more. So the question arises: do we want all of them to maintain, even strengthen or regain, if they have lost their relationship with the Greek state? I think the question doesn't want any answers. It responds from history itself. Every time the concept of a small Greece, for a fearful Greece, closed to its borders, the results were disastrous. And every time, when the open spirit prevailed, the universal spirit, the unified spirit, the Hellenism grew. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. From the Greeks abroad, ladies and gentlemen, we only have to win national and economic and cultural gains. We must endeavour in every way to bring them together, and the free exercise of their rights is an important way to strengthen their relationship, restore their relations with Greece. At a time when our country and Cypriot Hellenism are caused and threatened by Turkish expansion, Hellenism alone united as a whole can face Turkish expansionism. It is important to create conditions that will unite Hellenism and grow Greece and its power. One such dimension has the bill we are discussing today. That is why I call on all parties to stand up to the circumstances and to vote on the bill, so that we can give a message of unity and agitated front to the nation's ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr Anastasiades. Mr Kotronis has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr Stefanidis. Here, Mr. Kotraya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u100	As mother cares about all her children and more about those who are in foreigners, so the homeland through this bill after many years and despite the 1975 constitutional provision shows, at last, that she cares about her xenophobic children and gives them the self-evident right to have a say about the country's course. This is certainly not perfect, it is not without conditions, it is not without injustice, it is not simply universal, as every ordinary citizen might imagine. This is because obviously even in these nationally important bills there are different visual, different approaches that are influenced by party pursuits, ideological perceptions and ideological origins. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that politics is the art that is practicable and despite the desire of our Government, all the different views had to be shared in order to implement the constitutional provision for voting for the bill by at least two hundred votes. With this data and with this reason, undeniably the bill for the vote of our impoverished compatriots is of paramount importance to the nation as a whole. Everyone knows that the intention of our Prime Minister and our government over time was and is the facilitation of our compatriots, who live abroad, to be able to exercise their electoral right from their homes and residences uninterruptedly, without terms and conditions and even by letter of vote, as laid down in the Constitution. The Prime Minister, recognizing his national importance, took the initiative to negotiate with the country's political forces on this important issue and to achieve as broad a consensus as possible and as broad as possible. The proposed draft law, consisting of fifty-four articles, describes the electoral process in non-national electoral centres and the additional conditions to be met by voters to exercise their electoral right. The constitutional provision for the exercise of the voting right of voters, who on the day of the national elections, the European elections and the holding of a national referendum is on the ground. The main points on which I think it is worth staying are, firstly, that the vote should take place with a personal presence of the electorate in elections, which will be set up in embassies, consulates and appropriate premises, and with a minimum number to form a forty electorate. Secondly, the fact that the vote of the electorate will count equally on the overall election result and therefore on the total distribution of seats. The third point relates to the right to register on the electoral lists. I will not go into the forecasts. It is known that these are the two years that must have lived in the last thirty-five years and that they have made a tax declaration, apart from the under 30 years, which is enough to have been submitted by a relative. The fourth point concerns the fact that the number of Members of the European Parliament is increasing from twelve to fifteen. Three of the fifteen candidates in total must be residents abroad. In view of both the positions and demands of the representatives and bodies of the Greeks and of the political parties of the country, the Government has also made progress in legislative improvements and interventions, such as the one mentioned above, in the first three positions of the ballot, as well as in the establishment of a special intergroup committee. All these are actions that demonstrate the will of the government to achieve as broad a acceptance and consensus as possible, which is a matter of responsible policy. I am sure that by ensuring the two hundred votes we are moving towards an institutional section, which is the product of a fruitful dialogue and which is the foundation on which I hope in future to establish an improved and simpler system that will enable everyone, but all the Greeks of the Diaspora to come closer to home. It is an action which helps to forge and strengthen national identity, national consciousness and national unity, which we so much need at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too. Mr Stefanidis has the floor now from New Democracy and Mr Liupis is following again from New Democracy. Here, Mr Stefanade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that is being discussed today will, in our view, be recorded as one of the most substantial and democratic debates that have taken place so far, since the right to vote is indisputably linked to the concept and status of citizens in modern democracies. Based on our Constitution, all Greeks have been entitled to vote for over 17 years and with a white penal record. Article 51, and in particular paragraph 4 of the Constitution, provides for the exercise of the electoral right for Greek citizens outside the territory, provided that Parliament adopts such an implementing law by a qualified majority, which, unfortunately, has not been done so far. Already, ladies and gentlemen, in twenty-five Member States - Member States of the European Union - this regulation applies, while in the world eighty and twenty-four countries allow citizens of their dispersal to vote off the ground. All three quarters of the forty-seven Member States of the Council of Europe have enacted the vote on their counterparts from the place of residence in their national elections. Among the countries, which do not have a vote on their income from their residence, are Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Malta, Montenegro, San Marino and our country. This is because, obviously, so far, there has been a bad argument, in our view, that the Greeks of abroad have no contact with the Greek reality. But that is not the case. Consider that from 2011 until today, in this eight-year crisis, five hundred thousand Greeks left the country and most of them had finished all the years of education, primary, secondary and tertiary, in Greece. An investigation also reports that a large number of Greek men of the Diaspora have carried out his military service in Greece, and even has property here. It is estimated that more than three hundred thousand Greek expatriates are on our electoral lists and, of course, have a Greek tax register. This figure is expected to increase if these people feel that they can participate actively in the Greek elections with one vote in the national elections. Under our Constitution, there is no restriction on the exercise of the electoral rights of the relatives in Greece. The restriction is purely geographical and it lies in the fact that remote Greekism cannot vote remotely, which, as we have said, has been achieved in other states for the sake of progress and the technology that has been developed. Countries to which I referred at the outset provide either for voting in polling centres in their region, usually embassies or consulate, or both. A characteristic example is Switzerland, the Netherlands and Estonia, where there is a possibility and an electronic vote. The exception for the Greeks is only the participation given to the election of the representative for the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law provides, among other things, for the creation of special electoral units, while at the same time, in order to ensure that the result is inconsistent, the way in which the vote is held abroad and the conditions to be met for the exercise of the electoral right are laid down. The universal participation of the Greeks in the democratic processes for critical decisions is also a moral obligation for those who left abroad and contributed to the reconstruction of our country. Moral debt to the immigrant young people, seeking a better tomorrow abroad in the hope that they will return sometime. In this category, the New Democracy Government sends a strong signal that the right conditions will be created, which will make Greece competitive and attractive to young people. We therefore need to use the democratic Hellenism, which is an invaluable potential for our country, giving them the right to vote. Our decision today - which I believe will come by a baptism - will create stronger relations between our country and the Greek Parliament. Consider that only in America the number of Greek homosexuals is estimated at about two million. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the first step is taking place. Those who are at least registered on the electoral lists and have Greek VAT must be able to vote at their place of residence. Minister, I believe that in the foreseeable future another body, another parliament will extend the electoral base of the revenues and how to vote because technology allows it. I am referring to the letter vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Stefanides. Mr Ljupi has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Zebbles also from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that comes to be passed today after the revision of Article 54 of the Constitution is of historic importance and is a product of social and political fermentation of many years. In response to its election commitments and in view of the greatest political consensus possible, in order of course to bring together the required majority of the two-member parliamentarians, the Government tabled this bill, which for the first time enables Greeks, who are abroad, to exercise their right to vote in the national elections, in the European elections and in the national referendums. Although more than a hundred and fifteen countries worldwide have anticipated the participation of their citizens, who are abroad in the national elections, Greece has not established this possibility, although the ties are narrow and inseparable with the Greeks of the Diaspora. The first part of the bill stipulates that Greek citizens, who on election day are temporarily or permanently abroad and are already on the electoral lists of municipalities on the Greek territory, have the right to register on the special lists of voters abroad in order to exercise their electoral right when the following two conditions are met: First condition is the last thirty-five years from the date of submission of the application for registration in the special lists to have stayed for a total of two years in Greece, either continuous or intermittent and of course the two-year stay can be demonstrated by public documents. The second condition is that they should have made an income tax declaration in the current year or in the past. Dependent family members are excluded from the restriction if they have not completed the 30th year of age and have submitted a first-degree relative statement in the current or the previous year. An application for entry in the special electoral lists of foreign voters shall be made electronically with regard to the person concerned and the criteria required shall be determined once when the application has been entered and 10 years after the application has been accepted. The Ministry of Interior will operate a special app to registering, changing data and deleting from the special electoral lists of foreign voters. The Government's desire for a broad cross-party consensus was also expressed by the immediate acceptance of the proposal to establish a special inter-group committee to examine objections, to carry out sample checks on applications and to deliver an opinion on any necessary detail. The vote is self-determination in special elections, which are set up in embassies, buildings of Greek authorities, offices of sacred temples, shops of Greek clubs or organizations. In the polling stations, the number of voters will be between forty and six hundred. The voters vote in favour of the combination, without the right to a cross-reference. The vote of the Greeks abroad shall be counted against the overall election result. The suburbs become fifteen. At this point, the government, recognizing the right to vote for the Greeks, added to Article 32 rules so that one fifth of the voters would come from the special electoral lists abroad and at least one of them would be placed in the first three positions of the ballot. A great debate also caused the time and place of sorting and counting foreign votes. In the counterpart for their counting in Greece, the relevant Minister replied, stressing that this solution was chosen to avoid the risk of leaking any results at a time when the electoral process was not completed in Greece. Furthermore, it is important to provide, in Article 6, for Greek seafarers to vote outside the Greek territory with their naval brochure in the nearest electoral section. The second part of the bill attempts to simplify the electoral process by exploiting new technologies. Article 25 defines a specific voting day the last Sunday before the 30 days of the presidential decree is completed. Article 29 establishes an electronic procedure for the submission of applications and Article 33 simplifys the procedure for waiving posts which are an election blunt. Article 38 provides for the standard request for compensation to the members of the committee responsible. We all know that so far there have been elections with only a judicial representative. Article 43 shall facilitate the procedure for the submission of applications for a successor. I conclude with the conviction that this bill will gather the vote of almost all the parties represented in this House. This opportunity must not be lost. The first step has been taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u105	Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Zebplis has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr. Haritsis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, during the colonial period strong economic, linguistic and cultural links have been established between the peoples of the world, which have subsequently evolved into stable political and diplomatic cooperation. In this world, our country had no place. If we exclude our brothers Cyprus, otherwise we experienced our national loneliness, a loneliness, which sometimes led us to fearful behaviors, developing the "square of the porcupine" syndrome and having the thorns of suspicion promoted. Self-isolation and party tactics have, moreover, led us to remain one of the last countries, which have not yet regulated the vote of the frustrations, despite the fact that Greece grew up and strengthened when it was based on the unity of universal Hellenism. It is clear, therefore, that in this introvertible perception we should compare the radiation and greatness of the Greek-Democratic world. In this direction, we must strengthen our relations with the migrants, and above all make them common to the challenges facing our nation. And for this to happen, it is essential that they take part in the top democratic process. And it is certain that during the election period they will bring best practices from their countries of residence, contributing to the resilience and promotion of public speech. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this draft law does not cover the perceptions of our prolongation that it believes that the identity of our nation, together with the power of the federation and its great dispersion, should push us in the very opposite direction, namely the generalized letter vote. After all, we have to understand that this is a question of democracy and equal rights in particular. I am saying this because in dialogue, which is developing unjustified reservations and punctualities, they are not equal to historical responsibility, and they are also expressed by those who raised a question of equality and democracy in claiming the vote of immigrants in the elections to local self-government. They were the ones who were talking about rights and about open sea borders. Now, on the contrary, they are upright walls and fences, demolishing the democratic rights of our Greek brothers. However, today we must leave behind what separates us and unite in front of us, because today we are opening the borders of our country to welcome our compatriots who are twice Greek. We're opening the border for the Greeks of the hostel who grew up, but they never forgot about sweet homeland. We are opening the border for the emigrants who participated in the national and democratic struggles and fought the dictatorship from abroad. We open the border to our compatriots, who rushed with fundraisers to help the firefighters, earthquakes and, in general, our devastated fellow citizens. Finally, we open up our borders and our hearts for young people, who with pain of soul have left our country in the stone memorial years. In fact, over five hundred thousand young scientists were forced out of the country during the crisis. The Greek state and their families had spent more than 15 billion in order to ensure a better future. However, costs are much higher if we consider the country's serious demographic problems and their consequences for our future production potential. In this context, it is very important that the ambitious 'I return to Greece' programme, which creates the economic, especially, conditions for the re-engineering of this generation. Similarly, the provisions of this draft law keep political ties alive in order to facilitate the exercise of their electoral rights. There is no doubt that their youth dreams in many cases would have been hurt by the unrecognition and plausibility they endure throughout the entire public administration, sometimes even in public entrepreneurship. However, their active involvement in the political events is certain to strengthen horizontally the forces of modernisation and the resolution of public life. Finally, I would like to say that at last the water has entered the treasury of history and it is certain that it will lead to restrictions, exceptions and exclusions in the course of time. Because, anyway, the love of our impoverished brothers for their homeland does not fit in nine-digit numbers of tax records and in E9, because as Kostis Palamas says, "the majesty of the people is not measured by the stratum, with the heart being measured with blood". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u107	Thank you. Mr. Haritsis has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr. Panas from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Of course in five minutes to discuss such a complex and institutionally critical issue is very difficult, but I will try to highlight some aspects which I think have not been raised so far. At school we said'verba volant, scripta manent', words fly, writings stay. The question of facilitating the vote on the results, as I would say in total, of the relationship between the Greeks and the Greek state, with the Greek state, is one of those areas of public dialogue, which we have had overcrowded in all previous years. I do not need to recall that from 1974 onwards successive governments have promised to do something about this issue and never to the government of SYRIZA that something has not been done specific. I do not need to remind you of the grand proclamations, the squandered charming attacks on the family, the provocative chartering of aircraft for the transport of voters and, on the other hand, the total reluctance and inability of the old political system to go ahead with specific legislation to facilitate the vote on redundancies. The reasons, however, mainly the calculation of the micro-participatory interest, which favoured the words in relation to the projects. Contrary to the inertia of the old political system, therefore, SYRIZA, who has finally taken concrete action, was our own parliamentary majority, which proposed revising the relevant article 54 of the Constitution. And it was our government, which dealt with the substance of this matter, by addressing it with due institutional seriousness. In the Ministry of Interior we set up a intergrouping committee, involving top scientists and constitutionalists, with the aim of having a concrete, comprehensive and documented proposal on the subject for the first time. That is why I started by referring to the writings that ultimately remain, because what remains and finally what allowed us to start the debate in the Greek Parliament is the conclusion of the committee, which, in general terms, set things on a realistic basis, compared international experience, took into account the historical and political dimensions of the Greek case and proceeded with the formulation of concrete and tangible arrangements, which had two main objectives: to facilitate the vote of the deceased, who have ties with the country and to ensure that this facility does not open the window for opaque procedures leading to a change of the electorate. More specifically, the committee's proposal, which was also the basis of the legislative proposal of SYRIZA, set itself a personal presence of the electorate, taking account of the vote of the vote of the deceased in the combination of a predominant expansion of the number of Member States, the adoption of a specific legal and careful procedure, which would leave no room for tensions, questioning the election result and, above all, an artificial division between the members within and outside the territory. Refer, ladies and gentlemen, to the proposal for a law of SYRIZA and you will see a roadmap to resolve a just historical request to facilitate the vote of the offspring of Greek voters. This proposal, moreover, is also proposed as an optimal solution for countries with a large number of results, such as Greece, by the Council of Europe's Venice Commission, and the National Committee on Human Rights in its 2017 report clearly states that such a solution is a reasonable restriction on the principle of equal voting, in the established case-law of the Supreme Special Court. And who is the author of the relevant ECHR report? Current Minister of State of the Government of New Democracy, Mr. Gerapetritis. So the written words remain, but the words fly at the same time as SYRIZA tabled a comprehensive, substantiated proposal, the New Democracy was unfortunately engaged in a tender of irresponsible rhetoric promises. We all remember the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, to touring the Homos and eating everything to everyone, without thinking about the consequences of his words. So the New Democracy has dealt irresponsibly with this issue. Fortunately in the course he realised where this populism was driving and, with the prudent attitude of the Opposition, sought consensus and finally proceeded with a specific procedure leading to this proposal for a law. Fortunately - and I want to be fair to this - the proposal for a law incorporates some of the main positions of the committee, the Ministry of Interior and the legislative proposal of SYRIZA, among them, the self-determination and the adoption of clear criteria. We would have saved time if the New Democracy at the outset realised that this was what respect for legal order and common sense was imposed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will only need one minute, Mr President. Also good is the fact that the government accepted the logic of SYRIZA and the Communist Party of Greece and adopted two of the proposals that we also put to the committee, to set up a intergroup committee to monitor lists and to ensure the right to be elected for migrants. All in all, therefore, we consider that our proposal by SYRIZA, a concrete proposal for the work of top scientists and constitutionalists, goes far beyond the plan of the New Democracy. Nevertheless, as we have shown from the outset, we want a solution and we want consensus. It is high time that the Greeks of the diaspora were actively integrated into the political life of the place. In any case, we remain vigilant about the implementation of a credible long-term and operational framework that ensures the vote of the deceased and protects the electoral process from possible institutional obstacles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, too. Mr Panos has the floor from the Change Movement and then Mr Kelles comes from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the bill of the Ministry of Interior to facilitate the exercise of the electoral right of voters outside Greek territory and to amend the electoral procedure. This is undoubtedly a debate of historic value for the Greek-Hellenic people, a debate of key importance for the point that we will leave as representatives of the Greek people and you, gentlemen of the parliamentary majority, as a governing party. At such a critical time for the country where after a terrible economic crisis, whose signs remain indelible in society, our sovereign rights are now directly questioned. At a time when, ladies and gentlemen, unanimity must prevail and a common national line must be drawn to represent the interests of the country, we are today legislating that our compatriots, who at last live abroad, should have similar electoral rights to every Greek citizen. This is a draft law, which we would say is too late for it to come, when all European favoured states have established the relevant framework for decades ago. So, of course, we say 'yes' to the start of the bill, and let us not forget that it was a provision of the 2001 Constitutional Review on a PASOK government eighteen years ago. We say "yes" because it is a historic opportunity after the completion and the constitutional review to regulate the parameters and to identify the safeguards in the way they exercise this right by law of the state. But allow me, ladies and gentlemen, also to comment on these parameters and controls, or on the so-called cuts, and on the way in which they are introduced. First of all, as the government once again has failed to learn, since it appears to be a sign of a misdemeanor of a law, extremely important and symbolic for the nation and for Hellenism, instead of maintaining the bill as it was in consultation, namely by numbering twenty-five articles, it has chosen to add last minute to the original bill and another bill entitled ‘Amendment of the electoral procedure’, which is a second part of the draft law, ending incorporation of fifty-four overall articles. Such a move does not allow the final text to have the symbolic value and the celebrity character of such a major piece of legislation. For this reason, it was essential that there should be no rush in the debate on the bill and that there should be room for the representatives of the relatives, who were the most representative to explain their views to the relevant committees of the House. However, this was not because it encountered practical difficulties and, of course, why the government did not receive the necessary political time. And our question is why. After the same representatives of the parliamentary majority have been admitted, this is a legislative arrangement - a cut-off for our citizens, which is intended to unite all Greeks. How will this bill achieve its goal if they do not listen to the views of those who, in essence, are concerned and who are better aware of all the difficulties of staying away from your homeland? So, today, the government deprives these Greeks of the possibility of unhelpful exercise of the right to vote and stand for election, by depriving them of the essence, of this constitutional maximum right of any Greek citizen. We therefore disagree with the restrictions on the vote of the Greeks abroad, as set out in this bill, the so-called 'cutters', who are convinced that they will be insulted in their constitutionality and may be intimidated by all the law in the future. This is a serious possibility, which the government has to assess as long as it is still a time. In addition, as the representatives of impoverished Greeks expressed in their comments in the consultation, there are key points establishing two-speed voters. First and foremost, the lack of the right to vote by written vote. This method is applied by the Greek Parliament itself and also applies to other European countries. The dialectic vote is the position of the Change Movement, which we strongly support, but also the permanent position of the Greeks abroad. So, what constitutionally guaranteed right for all Greek citizens are we talking about? Because this is a direct violation of it. The dialectic vote also would facilitate the expatriates who live away from consulates or embassies costs much less in the Greek state and is as safe as the opening of the dossier is done in Greece by a cross-party committee. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress the need for a minimum of two years of residence in Greece over the last thirty-five years. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sum up by noticing that this is a legislative regulation such as the other, confiscated and incomplete, without the necessary parliamentary time and prestige, which is appropriate to this most important institutionalisation. It will be a failure for us and a disappointment for our compatriots, who are struggling so hard to participate in the political life of their country, to legislate today by blocking out directly a multitude of Greeks abroad, giving our vote in favour of the prohibitions laid down by the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u111	Mr Kelles has the floor from New Democracy and then Mrs Sakova from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on a bill that is historic, unified and deeply democratic. As stated in the explanatory statement, in 1862 the interim government of Greece in its proclamation to the Greek people, after the overthrow of Otto, had predicted the vote and representation of the non-state voters, citing characteristics: they were invited to the assembly of proxy not only of those in the national citizens, but also of those who far away worked for the greatness of the Greek name. Then followed by the resolution on the election of the nation's plenipotentiaries, which provided for the election of dismissal representatives. So pioneers, democratic and with strong forged national conscience were our ancestors, whose contingency we are called upon to safeguard. In modern times, Article 108 of our Constitution provides that the state is to care for the life of the Greek-populated and to maintain its ties with the mother country. Also care for education and the social and professional promotion of Greeks who work outside the territory. Greeks abroad are not only the relatives and friends who have organized their lives and have lived from years away from our country, as well as the young people who have fled the country by the years of the crisis, to seek better working conditions or to study, but they are all a second Greece that is struggling out of the border, making us proud. All together, they compose a modern pillar of the nation and of the Greek state. For the great powers of the planet Dispersal becomes a powerful means of embracing their high strategies. This must also be understood by us, beyond ideologies and party advances, in order to improve our country's international image and to upgrade its position in the world, for our children and the new generation, because above all we are Greeks. With this draft law, we are fulfilling the minimum obligation towards our compatriots by guaranteeing the sacred right to vote at all the lengths and backs of the world and by deepening our democracy. The country will have a multiplier effect on the participation of the deceased in political life, while their representatives who will be forced to vote in the first positions of the State Charter, that is, tomorrow's fellow Members, in accordance with the provisions of Article 32, will develop a special dynamic in public dialogue and parliamentary procedures. In accordance with Article 51(4) of the Constitution, a majority of permanent Members are required to vote on this law. Although we could achieve more with regard to the enlargement of the electorate and the schilling vote, we nevertheless ensure, after consulting the representatives of the other parties, that we are brought together in four points. Firstly, the vote by the voter in person in elections to be set up in embassies, consular posts, landmarks or other suitable places. The minimum number to set up an election division is forty voters. Secondly, the vote of the voters - who exercise their right to vote in the above elections - will count equally on the overall election result and therefore on the total distribution of seats. Thirdly, the increase of Members of Parliament from twelve to fifteen. Fourthly, the conditions for listing on foreign electoral lists. In addition, the revision of Article 54 was carried out, in particular in the provision of Article 7 of the bill, in relation to the provision of the vote in addition to the buildings of the consular authorities, at the independent offices of the temples of the Hellenic Orthodox Church. Minister, good for you! It is of great importance that, since the Hellenic Orthodoxy, beyond being an element of the identity of our people and has contributed throughout the centuries to maintaining our national conscience, remains a unifying factor for Greeks abroad and, of course, a factor of our national power, which can be exploited more in combination with the mobilisation of the homogeneous community as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament is going on today with a large majority, as they all show, in the resolution of a law that will bring us closer to Greek women and Greeks abroad, opening the way to deepening our interaction in the future. At the same time, we are once again aware in our modern history that our confrontation with national issues is extremely valuable. A few hours after the agreement that took place at the meeting of the National Foreign Policy Council on Turkish provocation, we are all coming here today, all together, in order to interconnect Greekism more closely with the country. I hope that this juncture will become a guide to our future, because unity is the most decisive factor in a nation's strength and in our case, the most effective way of defending our sovereign rights and defending the country's integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, too, Mr. Kelles. Mrs Sakorafa has the floor from Mera25 and then Mr Lentaridis. Before giving the floor to Mrs Sacorafa, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence "Confidentiality Regulations of the Ministry of National Defence". Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mera25 has a fair and clear position in relation to the exercise of the right to vote, a position for genuine facilitation of the exercise of the right to vote and, indeed, an equal vote. In other words, the unsolved and full electoral expression of this part of the Greek electorate. This is a position of principle for us. This position took place catalytically in the Constitutional Review, where a step was taken to ensure the voting rights of the deceased and with the possibility of creating electoral regions of Greece. Because, precisely, we are in favour of the right to vote on the motions for resolutions, we are obliged to vote against this bill. We oppose this dreadful bill, a bill that fears the political expression of the frustrations and puts it in the bed of Provrost, with unjustified restrictions, which highlight the inadequacy of the Greek metropolitan centre to deal with a fundamental issue. Our position is clear, and it would be the only one that would completely regulate this sensitive issue once and for all, in which the Greek state has already shown an unacceptable delay: normal and full right to vote and to parliamentary representation for the deceased in the constitutive regions of their place of residence, with corresponding lists of parties and candidates. Historical responsibility calls for a legislative framework for the actual facilitation of non-territorial voters to participate equally in the national elections. Instead of responding, we offer a law with criteria for exclusion from participation, and indeed, by introducing a second-class vote, by establishing a second-class vote. It's a bill establishing inequality. Inequality for which the Greek state should be apologised to the migrants, for example, in Germany, Sweden, Britain, throughout Europe, in America, in Australia, in Africa and where there is a living Greek element. The Greek resident anywhere on Greek territory has the right to the cross, which will have the choice of the candidate from the party of his choice. To the Greek Parliament, which has no opportunity to travel on election day and to vote where it is registered within the territory, the Greek state, which allegedly facilitates him to vote, does not give him the same right. It will only be a party and not a candidate, and it is up to the party behind the scenes whether candidates from the Greek Parliament will be placed in election positions in the dominance. That's not a vote of equality. It's a vote of inequality and inequality, we turn the back. We are giving the emigrants, ladies and gentlemen, a second-class vote. They cannot choose a representative in Parliament. They are given indirect representation, not only by the voters, but also by the electorate. Once again, the rights are compromised, because the Member States of the European Union will vote on the basis of the percentage of each party throughout the territory rather than on the vote of the deceased as such. You also know that, Minister, with the import system, smaller parties that do not elect a Member of the State will not be able, however they wish, to have Members from the Greek Parliament. But let's go to the details where the devil usually hides. The President-in-Office should document a cumulative presence of two years in the last thirty-five years. It is also linked to economic criteria, submission of declarations, etc., which provide opportunities for arbitrary approaches. The bill links the democratic exercise of civil rights to time and economic criteria. But the time and economic criteria, very simply, establish inequality. It would be reasonable if the victims of the new wave of immigration were able to choose to exercise their right to vote in elections within the territory or outside. The Greek political system has pushed young people into mass immigration, and it is now again restricting them to exercising their electoral right. The way in which we treat all these people who, as a Greek political system, have forced them to leave home, is incomprehensible. It seems, therefore, that we do not want the equal democratic vote of the results of all parties, democratically and equally. So we in Mera25 do not want to be involved in this mockery of frauds and state our opposition. We oppose the creation of a second-category body, with limited voting rights. Another chance, then, is again lost, gentlemen of the government. In conclusion, Mr President, I wonder how long we will have to wait and, above all, how long the people will have to wait until the conditions are matured, so that we have a law which is fundamentally consistent with the historical responsibility of the Greek state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa, too. Mr Letonaridis from New Democracy has the floor and next is Mr Blucho, also from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, from the outset Hellenism has contributed over time to the course of our country, to all the struggles on its historic route. To all the Greeks of the Diaspora who maintain the flame of Hellenism, no one has the right to block the inalienable right to vote in their place of residence, shaping political developments for the country they love and feel proud of it. What is important, then, is to tackle the new Hellenism as a whole. The Greeks who run through all the lengths and backs of the world are not second-class citizens. What makes us a collective entity is a function of many factors, such as language, history, but also the conscience that we belong to a nation. In these difficult times when national issues, culture and language, are also a way of life of the Greeks of the Diaspora, we have to win a great wager, the continuity of Hellenism. With an excess of heart, with an open mind to forge the unity of universal Hellenism. They do not need micro-party games and numerical calculations of what is of benefit to party formations. It is possible for us all to go together and without divisions and exclusions to overcome prejudices, suspicions and misery. Our historic mission is to convey some very important values to the people who will succeed us in this place. The bill we have to vote on today is of particular political and national importance because it refers to a self-evident democratic right of Greeks who live or are abroad. The right of Greeks to participate abroad in the election and election process is constitutionally guaranteed. The New Democracy's position on the exercise of the electoral right of voters outside the Greek territory was much more advanced than what is the content of this bill. Our view was and is that the right to vote in the country in which all Greeks who live without discrimination should have it, and that the most appropriate way to participate in the vote on the parliamentary elections is the letter vote, a method used by all the civilised democratic countries of the world. The dilemma was to try with all our forces to find common places, convergences and reach a consensus on a compromise solution, making the first major step to vote by Greeks abroad from the country in which they are located or to stay in their own view and finally to have no effect. This necessary compromise was reached because a majority of two hundred votes were required to implement this facility, which the government did not have. We call on all of Parliament's political forces to support and vote for this bill in order to send a strong message of unity of the political world and respect for world Hellenism, a message and a step necessary in the time we live in. We believe that this is a time of responsibility for everyone and an invitation from which no political power should be absent because there is no reason and no real argument. Ladies and gentlemen, the first step towards achieving the objective for Greeks to vote abroad from where they are located was taken with the revision of Article 54 of the Constitution, with the addition of paragraph 4, in which the forecasts of today's bill were constitutionally shielded. The second and essential step on this issue is the draft law we are debating today, which incorporates the four main axes of the cross-party agreement. First of all, it is essential that offshore voters are registered on the special electoral lists, and furthermore they must meet cumulatively the following criteria: In the last thirty-five years they have lived in Greece two years, regardless of when they left their country, they must have submitted a tax declaration - printed E1 or E2 or E9 - either this year or the previous tax year. Certification of the two-year residence criteria will be established by public documents. Secondly, the way Greeks from abroad vote. The vote will take place in person with the voter's presence in elections to be set up in embassies, consulates or other voting places to be designated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' decision. The minimum number to be set up shall be forty voters. Thirdly, the measurement of the votes of the foreign voters in the formation of the election result on the national side. The vote will count equally on the overall election result and therefore on the total distribution of seats. Fourthly, what the voters will be able to vote abroad. In particular, they will be able to vote for the Party's National Elections that they want, but without having the right to a cross-reference in the general parliamentary elections. They increase to fifteen out of twelve Member States, with a corresponding adjustment to the number of other Members. Ladies and gentlemen, because I do not have time, all these days and representatives of the deceased Greeks invited to the Committee on the Parliament's Committee on the Bill, it is true that they expressed their frustration and concern because under the conditions laid down by the bill a huge part of the Greeks abroad are excluded from voting in the place they live. We're with them. We hope that after the first application...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Lionides, you have to close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u118	...and on the basis of actual data a next House will be able to modify the bill by removing some or all of the restrictions on registering in the special electoral lists abroad. The vote of this bill is the performance of the minimum price and gratitude to all the remote Greeks who were found in the hostel and who, over time, support the country. In other words...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u119	Not in other words, Mr. Lionides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u120	...the Greek Parliament must demonstrate that it always wants to be close to the remote Greeks and that the right to vote it gives them is a timely due debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u121	Thank you. But I want to say this. I have been watching for some time now - it is not about the last speaker - Members who tell us what each article says. In the House we know what each article says. Let them choose something and make an analysis. Mr. Blucho has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. I won't say what each article says. Ladies and gentlemen, our modern history and our Greek state from its birth to the present day proved to be a prestigious example, most of the examples, his inherent weakness or otherwise his acquired inadequacy, in saving time and his cultural example and his essential perspective in time. The potential error stems from the fact that universal commitment claims have never been raised, that is, agreedly implied, and that they should not be based on rational evidence or absolute assumptions and should have imagined void types and should have been kept silent and should have been substantiated. The targeting of this is a product of mature and sober political approach as if this House were looking back on its historic course and as it is recalled at the same time resigns from the severe history of dogmas, fanaticism and in the end disasters. An inseparable reflection that resurrects the static waters of a romantic, perhaps, universal Hellenism over and out of every attempt of canalism and myopic demarcations, beyond and outside the angular lust effort of ethnicly-denominated or patrioted ones. The existence and realization of the Greek-democratic system is an issue, its value and indulgence are another and it goes completely through our hand. Our mistake as a political system in general is that we seek the validity or not of the Greekity in natural, social - state or psychological data, but we ignore, imply that the Greekity is "is", that is, that is, the non-existent one, which is not specified in terms and conditions. From the voice of the institutions, our contradictions and paradox have been condemned. What was eloquently captured was that the Greekness of the diaspora exists and is not given to any of us, only in our homeland. It revealed the core of our assumptions and put an end to our end to our endless surrendered confrontation. They neutralized all the prefabricated answers, opened doors and windows openly, stripped the political debate and shifted it into open fields with obvious discomfort, but in the end - perhaps the greenhouse plants may have been revived! With what is our political system aspiring now? I want to believe in his refractive interpretation and not in the necessity of self-regulation of our microparticular decline. This certainty is guaranteed by the government's leadership. The fact - even if 'pourished' - is proof of our concern for what? Energising the emotional ties of revenue with the ultimate aim of their readiness to undertake aid initiatives in our national pursuits? That was probably our interest. The present action and the perspective of this government's policy are not confined solely to the maintenance of the possibilities for the occasional and occasional use of the dispersion. However, on the contrary, what emerges and is evidently stated by the government, in contrast to our historical political rumor, is the beginning of substantial systematic planning and now with distinct objectives of integrating the dispersion into the political and functional become of Hellenism. Let's pragmatically capture our route without our ostrich-like evasions or pragmatic verbatimism. So since, during the debate in the committee and during the hearing of the bodies, we have been inclined to anthems for our dispersion, we have exaggerated political decoratively overthrown their authentic reaction and their objections, shared and persuaded their anxiety, what have we done? We tried to squeeze the passions, to shine our folding differences, to invent an alibi to fortify or to ensure our internal consistency, to smash plausible excuses, finally to strip our strict party lion and to try to make a transcendent today. Clearly, even though retarded, this must be a historic moment. It would also contribute to historical imprint if it were to plead for the motion put forward, at least mutilated, by the whole House. Need was given. The overrun today will be recorded. Ladies and gentlemen, we have set terms and conditions on an issue that requires only one and achievable living treaty. With a view to the widest possible consensus, with a discount for us, we have met for you - yes - to overcome the constitutional check. Was it worth it? Is it worth it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. But let me ask you: is the Greekness in question being questioned? The state, probably, why can't our socio-political. Is Greek being categorised? Is our democracy finally being framed or framed? Does the differentiation in a Greek metropolitan centre and in a dispersal automation in certain terms of discrimination and disequilibrium in itself? Finally, what Greekness do we all think about today and become her honorers? The one that we, the Greeks, have survived, the one of our insurmountable Greek self-consciousness, the one that we sometimes have, of our kouthabasidism? These are the issues that have taken a long time and many other things that have never been courageous and vigilant and have contributed to our decline. But it's time. "And while there will be collapses here, exterior Hellenism will proceed with light and music of another thought in the Great Greece will explode in the Panhellenics." For a Greece, therefore, as our national fairy tales and trovadour sings, Dionisi Savvopoulou. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and three educational sessions from the 4th General High School of Corinth (second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Alexopoulou from New Democracy, and then Mrs Zette Makri from New Democracy, too, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill today, we have the opportunity to go forward by sending a strong message of national unity and credibility to the unscrupulous Hellenism, wherever it has been rooted. It is time to satisfy a proper request for decades. Since the first days of the country's governance, the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, raised the issue with the direct priorities of the government. In a spirit of understanding, he met all the political leaders with a view to reaching consensus and a joint legislative resolution with the greatest possible majority, not only of the permanent MPs, as defined in the Constitution, but, if possible, of all three hundred. Today is the culmination of this effort. Throughout this process, the government has only set a red line which is a basic democratic and constitutional principle, the vote being equal. So, as SYRIZA suggested, the vote of Greek voters who live outside the territory could not be counted exactly the same way as that of all of us who live inside. We'd separate the Greeks from two-speed voters, one-and-two-class citizens. One vote against each other cannot be taken differently. The vote of non-border compatriots is not simply the recognition of their right. Deep-democratic Hellenism is a huge human potential, which the country must make use of, strengthening its ties with it. The right to vote is one of these ways. It is crucial that the connecting tissue remains unchanged, that the citizens maintain their Greek identity with multiple benefits for the place at both political and economic level. The fulfilment of this right is a constitutional check and obligation of the state towards an important category of Greek citizens who have increased rapidly in recent years because of the economic crisis. We realized how they seem to be missing from here, from the Greek workforce and from their families so many young people with studies, talents and appetite for creation. The generation of Brain Drain was forced to leave the country seeking a better future abroad. The vast majority of these people want to return to Greece. What they are asking is to have a voice and a vote. In this way they will be able to reconcile the policies implemented in our country. So ties with the country will become even stronger and will significantly strengthen the incentive to make their decision to return. It is true that the bill is a product of compromise, as the government's original proposal was even more innovative. The New Democracy's position was to be able to vote from the country in which all the Greeks from abroad are found by schizophrenic vote and without discrimination, exceptions and restrictions. This was clear and the desire of all the representatives of the Greek communities, federations and organizations of Greek abroad, as expressed in the committee where they were invited to present their views. All of them voted in favour of the letter of vote, stating their disagreement on the prediction of self-determination. That was our position, which, unfortunately, did not have the approval of the permanent Members required by the Constitution so that it could be established. The government had an important decision to make. If he insisted on this option without making the necessary compromises for the search for a broader acceptance solution, the result would ultimately be that no one would vote for many years yet until some time in the future find the requested majority. However, I do not think the objections to the letter vote have a real basis. They are not justified in a modern European state in 2019. There have been a large number of states, both European and non-European, which have been applying the letter vote procedure for decades without having had any significant problem. And there are countries such as the Netherlands, Switzerland and Estonia that have introduced e-voking practices. At some point we must realise that we are in the twentieth century and have not been frozen in the past. Technology can make a major contribution to our democracy and the electoral process. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. There is a thematic area in the world's information technology sector called electronic democracy, which refers to the use of technologies to enhance and improve political processes by reducing the cost of elections, faster counting votes and increasing the participation rate. Therefore, the issue is more likely to be found in the fear and suspicion of someone in the face of something unknown. Either way, the first step took place. We feel that we are entitled to the outcome of an agreement that satisfys almost all sides. Finally, the political system is making its commitment to all our compatriots abroad. Three hundred forty thousand Greeks are now entitled to vote. After all the consultations and the latest legislative improvements, it appears that a unique, modern history of the place is achieved, agreement is reached with the drafting of a bill, which seems to gather support for the overwhelming majority of the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u126	The original target has been achieved. We will continue the effort by shaping the ground and the conditions so that in the future more and more Greeks are actively involved in the elections of our country which needs us all without discrimination and exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, our ancestors in the newly established, fragile and small geographical Greece of 1862 had the courage and the unconventional and innovative spirit, but above all the instinct of democracy in order to bravely set up the country's electoral map at the time. Greek nationals, anywhere outside Greece, had the right to vote at the National Assembly of 1862. Of course they voted for the first and last time in the consulates of London, Alexandria and Istanbul. In fact, Greeks also elected MPs of the Dispersion, among them, Charilaos Trikoupis, who was a representative of London and George Averov, a representative of Cairo. Ladies and gentlemen, the events finally prove to be a great deal that we, the modern Greeks, are being left behind in democracy, since only in 1975, at the beginning of the post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipal elections, introduced an initial provision for the exercise of the electoral right by Greek voters outside the country, and in 2001, we simply supplement it by allowing it to expressly divergences from the principle of the simultaneous holding of the vote so that the non-Greek electorate can vote before the day of the parliamentary elections or the referendum and vote by dictatorial vote or other appropriate means. Of course, we have to stress that the 2/3 increased majority clause has also been added, in which the law, which would trigger this constitutional provision, has to be passed, since according to the then constitutional legislature, it is a post-constitutional guarantee, so that the electoral system is not changed and the composition of the electorate is altered. But we never allowed this provision to be activated, eighteen years later, despite some misty efforts in 2009. And this deafening omission became even more screaming after 2010 when the economic crisis led to the migration of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. It is therefore given to all of us who are representing the modern political system, at this time, following the recent constitutional review of Article 54 - a review in which I was actively involved and I am proud of its outcome - the possibility of stopping being persecuted by fear and suspicion. Therefore, with a great deal of interparliamentary disposition between the parliamentary groups, which proved to exist in the context of the three meetings of the Intergroup and the gathering of a broad consensus, a key issue for the performance of added value in our state system, we must finally resolve an institutional staggering for over forty-five years in order to stop voters living abroad from being treated as non-citizens. I will not stand by, ladies and gentlemen, on the complex constitutional issues that have already dealt with persistently and uninterruptedly all of us who have participated in the work of the Constitutional Review Committee, as well as the well-known and well-known constitutionalists and academics, for the adoption of the law on the exercise of the Greeks' electoral right outside the territory. I also think that this has been done with the convergence of four plus one-point agreement, which creates the conditions for achieving the majority of more than two hundred votes. I will simply try to interpret the specific provision of the Constitution, on which this draft law is based. The Constitution says nothing but a law - that is, this bill called on us today to judge and vote - by a majority of at least two-fifths of Members, on issues of the provision in Rule 54. Therefore, we do not decide to give voting rights to any third party, we simply facilitate the exercise of the electoral right by Greek citizens who are registered in the polls and therefore have an electoral right, but have decided permanently or temporarily to stay abroad. Therefore, these citizens are also involved in popular sovereignty, but are not on the ground on the day of the elections. What else should we consider in the exercise of the electoral right of these citizens? Obviously, the fact that their vote must be equal, that is to say, that it has the same legal relationship as any other vote. It goes without saying that their vote should be taken into account in the overall electoral force of each party for the distribution of seats. The parties will be encouraged to include in the electoral lists of Greek MPs from the Dispersion, and it is up to them to decide the number of candidates. In other words, it will be a matter of self-regulation for the parties themselves to include in the election positions of Greeks of the diaspora, which is why the number of Members of the European Parliament is expanding from twelve to fifteen, that is to say, the maximum provided for in the Constitution for Members of the State. The other issue that is being regulated is the way in which out-of-state voters vote. The position finally prejudged by the cross-party convergence is that there will be no strict number for the Greeks of the Dispersion who will also participate in a special electoral district. They will vote only on the list of States, without putting a cross of preference and their vote will ultimately be counted on the export of the vote, so it will also be equal. As a security test in facilitating the exercise of the electoral right, the following criteria should be fulfilled: they should have remained in the country for a period of two years either once or in the last thirty-five years; they should have submitted a tax declaration either in the current or the previous tax year and under these conditions they should be entered in a special list outside and they should be able, with their natural presence, to vote in embassy, consulate or other suitable places for the establishment of which the minimum number of forty voters is required. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] In a minute, Mr President, I shall end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u128	Not in a minute, 'cause you're talking seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u129	Five minutes, I'm talking in a second. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a unique opportunity to resolve such a matter of national importance with a wide consensus. The Greeks are too few to be divided, especially at this time of events, and we have to show by voting on this bill that we join forces to move forward, as the Minister said, at least in this self-evident democratic right of the Greeks throughout the earth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, too. The reason for this is that Mrs Skondra, Members of Parliament, both of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has shown at the outset a spirit of consensus and agreement with the political parties in order to carry out a request for decades of the organizations of our Greeks abroad and our reverend compatriots. Our historic past also dictates us to move in that direction. We all remember the special legislation of the Minister of the Interior Thracian Zaimi a hundred and fifty-seven years ago, where the Greeks abroad were for the first time to vote from the place of their stay. Over a hundred and fifty years have passed and we have come to today to overcome any political conflicts and with a sense of responsibility to make it easier for all Greeks of the world to participate actively in the political events of our country. This is at a time when our country is threatened by the aggressive, illegal and unscrupulous policy of our neighbour and the increased influx of mainly economic immigrants in the islands and inland. Our homeland needs new foreign children as much as ever and we must not be definitively removed from the country's events. We want them to function as ambassadors to our country abroad, to be charitable to our national issues, to assist in the effort to rebuild the country's economy, with a view to strengthening ties with all universal Hellenism. The New Democracy has long claimed that this right was guaranteed and believed in the composition of views rather than in the controversy. That is why he has repeatedly tabled draft laws, but also proposals for laws, without, however, reaching the request, Minister. The bills tabled were not voted for by the "magic" number of permanent MPs from the opposition. Today we are seeking to ensure that this institutional division is finally established. As the Head of the Republic of New Democracy in matters of de-democratic Hellenism, I argued that the utilization of universal Hellenism is a mission of the Greek state. Since 2016, I have stressed that our main priority should be the participation of payees in the commons of our country. The granting of the right to vote does not merely constitute an obligation of a state, but an obvious right and an indication of the modernisation of the Greek state by enjoying the micro-party purposes. The Government in this draft law, in practice, proves that it considers the Greeks to be an integral part of the country. At the same time, since then, I have stressed that the organisation of the Greek-democratic system is required on new bases. I am sure that the new and newly undersecretary of State from the Greek Prime Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will put on new foundations the issue that we are currently discussing, an effective organisation that unites forces, coordinates actions and promotes national objectives. This is what I am sharing from the Step of the House: From the Democratic Hellenism, organizing communities and scientific associations, building schools, churches and cultural centers did not survive, but it grew up. But he didn't forget the country. All the emblematic buildings of modern Athens and the country belong to Greek benefactors and donors. That is why I, from this Step forward, express my gratitude and gratitude and my own, as well as my sidelines and our government. To this end, the first and important step was the revision of Article 54 of the Constitution during the recent revision process, proving the maturity of the political world. A few days later, the government takes the second and essential step reflecting national understanding, bringing this bill. We are proud to vote on this bill and call on the Greeks to respond to it. We are sure that they will. Let us take advantage of the years before us, so that by working hard and methodically, with the national interest, Hellenism - both Greek and Greek - can make a new and hopeful start. The Greeks are few, but strong and it is a luxury to be divided. All together we can achieve what our ancestors have achieved. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u132	Mrs. Skondra from New Democracy has the floor and Mrs. Kefalidou follows from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional legislature has since 1975 been establishing the equivalence of Greek vote in the Constitution of Greece. It does not separate the vote of those who live within the geographical borders from those who live outside. We arrived in 2019 to finally be implemented by the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis, the self-evident one, since in the past an attempt by the New Democracy has failed. The facilitation of the exercise of the electoral right of the Ombudsman has been a constant request for many decades in the context of Hellenism. Today, after a persistent and painful effort by the Minister of Home Affairs, Mr Theodorikos, to whom many congratulations are worthy, we are coming a step closer to satisfying this just and proper request. I say 'one step', because there was initially a huge distance to the parties' positions and a wide-ranging dialogue, compromise and consensus were required. We believe and seek national unity, national consultation, and we prove that in practice, as with this draft law. The New Democracy's position on the issue of the vote on the results was and remains firm: we want all Greeks and Greeks to vote for the diaspora from the place they live by written vote, without any exception and no discrimination. That is the position of the homogeneous organizations. Some opposition parties, however, objected to it. And since our Constitution sets a limit of two hundred votes in order to vote for the law, these retreats were needed. Otherwise, we would not have taken this first step today either. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic principle governing this bill is to facilitate, precisely, the participation and exercise of the electoral right at the place of residence of the deceased and the equal measurement of their vote in the election result. The government found itself in front of a puzzle, attempted to solve a problem, while respecting the views of the Opposition, but with which it obviously disagrees. Because of the time economy and because the minutes of our speech have been reduced, I am going forward and say that by regulation introduced by our Minister, three of the fifteen Members of the embassy of each party's constituents will come from the diaspora. I say that for those who claim they will not be represented. In fact, at least one of the three has to be placed in the first three seats of each vote. Thus, an autonomous right to be elected for the Greeks of the Diaspora is being introduced. With regard to the right to register on foreign electoral lists, it is up to those who meet different criteria. I shall not go into the criteria, Mr President, as you have said. However, it should be clarified that, in the main thinking of the JRC, which we had to take into account, there is the concept of a relationship with the country, which must be accepted. However, it must be understood that there is no precondition as to how many years someone is missing from home, as well as that the presence of the two years can be intermittent at different times. The rights of all Greeks who have left our country in the last 12 years are fully guaranteed without the above mentioned conditions, wherever they may be. It is a crucial point, bearing in mind that there is no future and that there is no Greece without the new generation. Ladies and gentlemen, it was quite right that the bodies in the committee heard something that I personally recommended, namely that Greeks abroad should be recorded accurately and that we should know what number we are talking about. We know that we are one Greece here and another Greece scattered in the world. And that's vague. I still share the concerns of our relatives that a large number of frauds will not be able to participate in the electoral process because they do not fulfil all the conditions. But there is time, ladies and gentlemen, to change that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is a reproach, Mr President, to the whole political system of the country which gave birth to the Republic, at the moment, for the possibility of voting on foreign voters to be guaranteed in at least one hundred and fifteen countries in the world and for us to still talk about it and disagree. In these countries, flexible forms of votes have been introduced, such as elephant, representative and electronic voting. I close by saying that the law falls short of the expectations of both the expatriates and the New Democracy. It is, however, the first important regulation in the right direction. That is why it is historic that the vote and the great involvement of the voters in the first election process that will result will increase the pressure on the parties who today have reservations about lifting the objections and restrictions so that we can definitively end up with what we are saying today. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece loves and hurts us all equally. No one's left over. Hellenism must be united now. Our country is moving from different directions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Skondra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u135	I shall conclude, Mr President. The majority of the people are at the top of the spear. In the countries where their dynamic communities live they can act and significantly influence world-wide leadership in favour of the right and national interest of our country. Many are in high positions and positions - keys in all areas. We're asking for their debts. We too, as representatives of the mother country, must make our own debt to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u136	Mrs. Kefalidou from the Change Movement has the floor and then Mr. Plearis from New Democracy. Please keep the time, there are many speakers. Parliamentary representatives will now begin to speak. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, following the brave Review of 2001 and the current vote in favour of the revision of Article 54 of the Constitution, the way has opened for the adoption of the law which will make it easier for Greek foreign residents to vote, such as most European citizens, in elections and referendums without having to come to Greece. The draft law on the vote of impunity is a product of negotiation and compromise with the other parties. In order for it to enter into force at least 200 votes are needed, otherwise it will not apply at all. During the negotiations, a consensus had been reached with the overwhelming majority of the parties. Today we are discussing the way and the procedure, but above all we are discussing the limitations imposed by this draft law on the possibility of voting for those who are absent from the place where they are. Last and most recently, we have given Greeks who live abroad the opportunity to vote at their homes or about at their homes, because considering the distances of our consulates in many countries abroad, it makes the entire project a minimum effect. Ladies and gentlemen, in constitutional terms, we have introduced the vote of the off-territorial Greeks, in order to make it self-evident, to give voice and representation to the thousands of Greeks and Greeks who live and work abroad. In recent years we have all been living it: Since 2005-2018, the number of evidence has risen dramatically, with the massity of exiting from the country reaching, as well as Brain Drain, according to ELSTAT's figures, the six hundred ninety-eighteen people. The disillusionment of the homosexuals is diffuse, since most of them, due to the compromises made, were excluded from the process. Before deciding, anyone who can and does not exclude them from the law, whether to take part in the next electoral procedure, will have to answer some existential questions: why is their country treating them as second-class citizens? Why have citizens of other countries for decades voted from their place of residence easily and inexpensively? And finally, why should they go back to a country that always drives them away? The last initiative of the Ministry of Labour with the 3,000 euros per month as an incentive for those who return to the country and work here sounds very good communications. But is that enough? A country that has a huge effort and a great deal of dissatisfaction does half of what is self-evident is not convinced and unfortunately not enough. Ladies and gentlemen, why all these restrictions? Why the thirty-five years of residence abroad automatically deprives those who live outside Greece of the right to vote? Why the two years of stay in Greece? And this criterion of two-year stay in Greece prevents the majority of the homosexuals from voting for up to 90%. You know that most of them return to Greece for a few days' holidays. Entry and residence in Greece of expatriates resident in countries of the European Union are not even recorded. How, then, can someone prove it? Why the possession of active VAT and the active economic tax relationship with Greece, especially since these are all issues that are not required by voters living in Greece? How constitutionally legitimate are all these restrictions and discrimination? Unfortunately, no convincing answer was given to these questions. Theoretically, in the debate on the vote on the death penalty, we all agree that the conditions in question are designed to protect the electoral process itself from any distortion of the election result. It is very questionable whether the provisions of this draft law are doing so and it is absolutely questionable whether these restrictions are in line with our Constitution. Arrangements adopted by other countries restrict the right to vote by the homosexuals. However, these cannot extend to the extent to exclude citizens who were born, raised and studied in Greece, i.e. people who, if they were foreign, could, under the same conditions, acquire Greek citizenship. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, with your tolerance, I will need one more minute. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking here about a draft law, which concerns, in particular, the obstacles that we will put to the voters, so that we can finally manage not to be able and not to vote. At the same time, however, we can say and above all show that the Greek state is modernising. When we say that the bill enables migrants to participate equally or in about equally in the electoral process, who will we convince? However, not the expatriates who live abroad. The fact that an agreement has been reached could be an extremely important success, could give a solution to a problem of decades. But we didn't really want it. If we were really interested in giving voice to these people, we would have to adopt without second discussion the proposal of the Change Movement for a letter of vote. Positive, though self-evident, Minister, that you have even accepted by legislative improvement our proposal so that at least three of the candidates from the Greek foreign residents and at least one of them must be in the first three positions of the prestige vote. However, our preference for this choice does not make us very proud. What he can do is tell us a lot about the degree of our political culture and our democratic sensitivities. And finally, by paraphrasing the popular opinion 'from the whole, good and incomplete voting option to the offenders', we say 'yes' to an initiative that should have been much more bold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u138	Mr Ploris from New Democracy has the floor now, followed by Mr Kavadas again from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important bill and above all we are seen by our compatriots who are outside the Greek territory. We really did try to resolve this matter in the past. Unfortunately, however, due to the provision that exists for the two Members of Parliament, it was impossible to manage to have the shocks that were required, as we have today, by deducting from our initial position in order to obtain the required consensus. The main part is that we consider that the Greeks who are abroad, who are abroad, are an integral part of the Greek nation. And because we do not treat the Greek people as an unpersonal crowd of peoples here, but we believe that there are common origins and payments that link us, that is the main reason why we wanted these people to have the right to vote over time. We feel immediately that we are with them and with them, that we are next door and close to their vital interests, no matter how long they have passed, wherever they may be. So this is a basic, central ideological starting point for us, and that is why we wanted the right to vote on the motions from the outset to be exactly the same as the lists to which everyone who has the Greek citizenship can subscribe and cannot forbid it, as can be included in the lists and to come here to vote, so that he can vote from the place where he is staying. There was another ideological approach to the subject, which is not what our party has to do with the fact that we should see whether these people have a relationship and a discount should be made in this direction. Without having to go into an ideological confrontation, this view is wrong from now on: it would be a talk about who generally has the right to vote. We could go out and say 'Everyone must have the right to vote or have a word about if anyone is absent, should we not have the right to vote?' Apparently no one would have had that serious conversation. But there would be a basis for talking. Where is this argument wrong? The fact that once someone has the right to register on the electoral lists of Greeks, having the Greek citizenship, at any time, as long as he has no tie to maintain, he has the ability to take the car, the plane, the train, any means of transport and come to vote. So, in fact, he has the right to vote. What are we now doing, with the discount we had to make in our original position, in order to bring about the convergence of the two-member parliamentarians? We are actually telling these people that if they take the plane and come here, they will be able to vote without a problem and no one will ask them whether they have left two years in Greece or whether they are thirty-five years or more. On the contrary, they cannot exercise their right where the man who lives next to them and by chance was found on Greek territory for two years or makes a tax declaration because he has a parcel that has been left by his father and has never seen it. He will be able to exercise the right from abroad according to the existing procedures, while the other to exercise his right should get the means of transport to come to Greece. We believe that these people are wrong, and that there could be no problem. But what is the important thing? We have a process which shows that, in both polarization and ideological conflict conditions and in highly opposing views and ideologies, we can find even an average solution. This average solution will certainly not satisfy everyone and will certainly all feel that they have a complaint because they have not been able to do so. We therefore believe that our main red line, which was equality and equality of vote, which were unnecessarily binding, has also been achieved from there and we have been prepared to make any concessions for these people, in their greatest place, to be able to exercise their electoral right from abroad. This has been achieved. From there on, we take the first step and hope that the legislator of the future in practice will be able to fill a gap that is created with regard to the conditions which have entered and ruled out a part of the Greek voters abroad, because we remain consolidated in our position that all Greeks, wherever they are, are, whatever their years, are, as long as they are, Greeks so that they can exercise their electoral right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr. Plearis. Mr Kavadas has the floor from New Democracy and Mr Xanthopoulou follows from SYRIZA. Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on today's bill - and by a large majority - is a leading historic act. It is national and it is the least we can do for the family, which has never forgotten the country and has always been and is next to it, supporting it in every way. Greece is growing by giving the migrant Greeks the right to vote, a right that had been badly denied in previous years. It gives the right to vote to people who had and who have Greece in their hearts. The young people who left the country during the crisis and who, as the Minister of Home Affairs said, "without them there is no Greece". Those attempts that had been made in the past had not been implemented, with the result that the public are deprived of the right to vote, to be alienated from the mother country, to be small in Greece. Today's vast majority was built in the field of consensus and composition. A field chosen by the Prime Minister himself when he opened this big issue. Today's development is a right to its efforts, since it has shown itself determined to move through shocks and compromises in the formation of the today's large-scale parliamentary majority that supports this bill. For us it was a principle that the Greeks should vote abroad. We are pleased that they eventually acceded to this view and agree, even those who initially opposed it. We may disagree on many things, but it turns out that there are issues and areas in which there can be consensus and consensus. This may well be a precedent for the difficult problems we have to deal with, particularly in relation to the attacks of our national sovereignty, which have been growing lately. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill provides for the increase of Members of the State to 15 of twelve, while the Greeks who vote in the foreign sections, who choose the Party's state vote that they want. The right to register on foreign electoral lists is held by Greek citizens who have lived abroad for the past thirty-five years in Greece and have submitted a tax declaration either in the current or the previous tax year. If the elector has not completed the thirtieth year of his or her age, he shall submit it to a relative of first grade. Wanting to make it easier for citizens living abroad to register on the electoral lists, they will be registered electronically, at a special gate, which is expected to work within two months of the adoption of the law. In fact, the evidence of the criteria and the conditions I mentioned before are available in public databases and can be derived automatically, directly and with the consent of the citizen. It is also very important that the procedure for the certification of residence criteria is simple. It is also good that elections will not be restricted to embassies and consulates, but will be facilitated by other public places, if there are at least forty voters. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the frustration of some homosexual organisations, people who are and feel Greek, but unfortunately they are not included in the criteria of this bill, which, as I said, is a product of compromise. However, the start has been made and we can see all other issues in the future. The provision of the right to vote on Greeks living abroad enhances the quality of our democracy, as well as the democratic legitimacy of our political system. In such a matter of national importance, we need common stepping up and unity. The positive vote in this bill is not only a debt to the nation, but also a debt to democracy. That is why, from this point of view, I call on all the governments of the Parliament to stand up to the circumstances, following the example of the Foreign Policy Council, which has shown that when we are in front of national critical circumstances there may be an unrestful front with national sympathy and harmony. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u142	Thank you to Mr Cavada and to keep time. Mr Xanthopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA and then the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Lebanese. Mr. Blondopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is on the agenda that the draft law on the vote of those who are not Greeks in practice, which is provided for in the 1975 Constitution, is on the agenda. So far, however, the parties that were responsible for governance had not proceeded with the regulation of this constitutional provision of selfishly thinking and wickedly acting. Contrary to the practice developed by the lack of consensus between PASOK and the New Democracy, SYRIZA during his first government term worked to reach the appropriate institutional framework, which would regulate the vote of the non-Greeks, formed the so-called "Haritsis party" and with the start of the constitutional review opened the way for today. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is the citizen's component. It's not just the origin. There must be other conditions for a vote. The limitations of the European Court of Justice - our general rapporteur, Mr Katrugalos, said so explicitly - allow for a distinction between voters and foreign voters. Therefore, the return of crocodile tears to the unfortunate homosexuals, who are not allowed by the country's legal order to vote, while they are entitled to, is hypocritical. Of course they can vote, under the specific conditions laid down in the draft legislation. What's the big one today? The apparent consensus. How did it come about? With the strategic relocation of the New Democracy from unreasonable - in introductorys - to vote - to the Greeks, it has moved to today's proposal, which creates consensus. The establishment of the electoral directory committee is also in a positive direction. The question of the decisive competence and assent of that committee remains unresolved. Finally, the question of the renewal of the electoral list is pending. The decade proposed by the government is a long time and substantially expands over the next thirty-five years in forty-five years. We therefore expect that the necessary convergences will be reached, so that the House will close the gap which exists almost half a century. Says the great Seferis: "On the basis of every debate, we have a silent contract, without which we may have parallel monologues, but we have no dialogue. For the time being we are the country of the parallel monologues.’ Let's falsify him. Ladies and gentlemen, this great institutional change is now beginning and must be shielded to serve as a forerunner for the integration of conventioners into the political process. There is no question of the democratic acquis being called into question, no grey areas being created for popular voters and the possibility of those who wish to be constitutive to the future of the country. We are judging with the sizes of history and let us all assume our responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after being informed of the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-nine students and students and three teachers from the 4th General High School of Corinth (Third Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Lebanese from New Democracy has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the draft law on the facilitation of electoral rights abroad is a practical demonstration of the consensus that our political system can achieve. A conspiracy which we were pleased to see formed yesterday at the National Foreign Policy Council. The situation with Turkey is difficult. The memorandum signed with Libya and the Turkish President's threats of drilling in the areas of the continental continent of Crete show that the exacerbation that is being observed has obviously come to stay. The government acts in line with national interests, building strong alliances and effectively isolating Turkey. In the preliminary draft summit, there seems to be an explicit condemnation of Turkish behaviour, while the leaders of the Union will stress that the Turkish- Libyan memorandum has no legal effect. In parallel with the letters to the Secretary-General and to the UN Security Council, the government also calls for the condemnation of the entire international community. It also made clear at both internal and external audience that it will do everything it takes to defend our country's sovereignty and sovereign rights. With regard to the criticism that has been made today in the Chamber, and in particular by Mr Velopoulos, I would recommend that he study a little better Professor Rukouna. For the sake of customary law - as this great professor, of course, says in his book - there must be a long, uniform and stable practice, but also a conviction of law. That's what Mr. Rukunas says. It is not enough, unfortunately, because we could also use it if we could - a simple letter on the creation of customary law. With regard to arms trade in Libya, I would remind you of the recent decision of 2 December of the Security Council, which called on everyone to respect exactly the arms embargo imposed following the diplomatic pressure exerted by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, when our colleagues in 1975 voted for the Constitution, I am sure they would not have waited for 44 years after what they adopted, namely that the vote on the motions for resolutions had not become reality in their place of residence. However, the expectation of abstentions is ending. Finally, the homeland corrects its historical certainty to its best ambassadors around the globe, who hold the Greek flag high, who support the country in every corner of the earth, who support timeless and stable. Which one of us forgets the strengthening of the Hellenism of the Dispersion in the '21 Revolution, the uninterrupted financial support of the mother home from the ordinary people of the labour, who sent the transfer, who send the transfer back home, to the strong factors of the family that benefited the nation? With the current bill, therefore, the Greek state pays out a historic debt to the remote Greeks and above all - to come to our day - to the thousands who have left the years of the crisis. We are doing the least we could do, giving these people the right to vote for their place from where life pushed them, with the main aim being Brain Drain very soon to become Brain Gain. In order to do this, however, the bill we are discussing today required a step forward in the development of our political system, which was made with the revision of Article 54 of the Constitution and the addition of paragraph 4. And by the way, I would like to address again a great thank you to those political forces who have voted for this article. Is this proposal that we have today to vote on the best? Apparently not. Nearly all the speakers in the New Democracy have answered this. I'll point it out, too. Our positions have been and are well known. We believe that there should be no restriction on the exercise of the right to vote by the remote Greeks, not to prevent them from exercising a right from their residence. While, if they were in Greece, they could do so unforeseenly. To be able in 2019 to vote by letter of formal vote and not to require the presence of the person concerned. To vote on all Greek citizens who are registered on the electoral lists precisely in their constituencies. Unfortunately, however, we do not have the votes required by the Constitution, and you are well aware of that. We have heard today both from Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and from the SYRIZA rapporteur that we are inaugurated in practical terms for strategic shifts and for proposals outside European legal reality, with reason - you will allow me to say - fragmentary, as is the SYRIZA's thinking and political logic in recent months. I'm not going on the way to confrontation. In order to restore the truth, systems like the original proposal for the vote on the results by written vote and take account of the outcome of the whole territory have Switzerland, Austria, Sweden, Estonia and many other countries. I say this so as not to tell us that we are divergent from European culture. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have had a choice: To stick to our positions dogmatically, prolonging the waiting for Greeks abroad or seeking wider consensus from our positions and the hope of the Greeks. Our resignation and the government have chosen the difficult way to achieve the basic objective, namely the possibility of finally voting from their place of residence. He therefore sought consents with a single unparalleled red line, the equality of the Greeks' vote of the interior with the Greeks abroad. The vote is one and is equal to everyone. With this red line, the government through its Minister at meetings with representatives of all parties shaped this bill, which comes to correct a historic injustice. I would also like at this stage to congratulate Mr Theodorikos and Mr Livanios on the wider consensus they have reached, in essence understanding the historical importance of their institutional intervention. This consensus was also reflected in the committee responsible - and most of the proposals of the Opposition were accepted - but even today, with the changes Mr Theodorikos announced two hours ago in the very direction - and the previous speaker, Mr Xanthopoulos, did not notice it, I imagine, of the proposals of the Opposition. We therefore allow the migrant Greeks to vote from their homes if they have stayed in Greece for the last thirty-five years for a period of two years and if they have submitted a tax declaration. The criticism of the always documented colleague Mr. Kefalidou from the Change Movement was completely accepted. But was it really worth it, and I also appeal to people outside the Chamber, that this opportunity should be lost in total so as not to give all rights? Our opinion is that we don't. At the same time, the electoral right will be exercised in person at the seats of the Greek diplomatic authorities or at certain points of the family where elections will be created as long as there are at least forty voters. It is restrictions that, as the institutions have said, the homosexual organisations that came to Parliament, whose response was really touching after having taken transatlantic trips to be around us in two days, deprive many of their right to vote from their place of residence. But they are restrictions tolerable under the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. The future is ahead of us, the beginning becomes today and of course always the enemy of good is the best. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down, this bill embodies what we can all achieve together when we put the interest of our country over small-scale benefits and purposes. As the Minister of Interior rightly said in one of his speeches, the Greeks are too few to be divided and we have paid very much for our national divisions. Times are critical and unity is necessary. The vote of the results is a crucial step in this direction. Citizens have a word of what is said on the ancestral earth. This bill should be voted on by three hundred MPs. Let us vote on this, as far as I understand it is possible, even two hundred and ninety of us. This would be a perfect message of unity in all directions at a strange historical juncture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution. Then will the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Vlassi, be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by answering, as I have to say, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative. Mr Levanne, you will allow us to disagree unfortunately. We don't see any fellowship. We should see homology, but what we see is the party interest. That's exactly what you're interested in. This is unfortunately the reality. Also on arms, Mr Levane, let me tell you that AIRTRANS carries weapons over the Larissa headquarters. Turks carry them and take them to Libya. That's been going on for months, it's not happening today. It was just mentioned today and we stressed it today because of the marked escalation in relations between Greece and Turkey. By the time we are in'red', we have the Turks to use our own airspace and carry weapons over Greece's airspace to Libya. And I'm asking: is that normal? Is that right? Do you see it appropriate? That's what we say why it's real. Ask Mr. Calenderides if we're lying. The Libyan-Turkey agreement, unfortunately, is also a given one, has happened. If it gets out illegal, I wish it would. However, it creates some data, it is a given fact that, unfortunately, the Turks have caught up with us. Unfortunately, we have learned to lean behind developments rather than to create them, to challenge developments. We did not define an EEZ, Mr Lebanese, as we had to do as a state and as we called as a party with the front of our President "determine EEZ no matter how difficult it is or not". To gather all parties, all parties' leaders and to take this important step to establish an EEZ. It will end up in the end being a joke, unfortunately, such a serious matter. And now, unfortunately, we are running behind developments. That's the truth. Now, if we want to look up situations and present something else and say "What a good time we have here, and we have, and we have fellowship, and we have understanding, and all for the common purpose," we can participate in this theatre. Another thing is the reality. The reality is that everyone in here looks at his party interest. I also participated in the Revision of the Constitution with a great sense of responsibility and proudly and was one of the key issues in the debate, the vote of the homosexuals and how it will be achieved because it is their right anyway. Although we have had very important objections to what you have brought us almost unconditionally and said to the common good of these people, we accept almost everything. We made concessions, we put too much water in our wine. But here every one of the parties that are currently taking part in the Greek Parliament and we must say that this agreement, this vote today, which will be voted on by everyone except for Mera25 - I don't know and I don't care about it, everyone else will consent to it, we won't achieve three hundred absolutes - it's a party transaction product. It's simple. So each one of you wins something. It's a deal on the chess board. We put them up, what's gonna be our moves? "What do I get? What am I gonna get? I'll vote for you, give me this, take this. That is what I want to agree on." That's how it's done. For example, the JRC. There's no reason to confront or fight. We have our views, people are listening, they are judging us. Some agree, some disagree. We say that we are telling reality and truth. So what do we say? That the JRC did not want, for example, the relatives in Australia, America. I don't want the KIC to go out now and tell me it's not like that. I say it with respect. That's not the point of talking. He wanted the Greeks of the European Union. Why? Because there's a high percentage. He had his own interests, had 14%. That's how the JRC judged, so proceeded. So is SYRIZA in relation to the Greeks of the European Union in America, etc. You have put red lines, you said 'no here'. We do not take red lines seriously, say until our own red lines are in national matters. Red lines in the small internal micro-party games of the parties you put. And red lines prove the feasibility behind this bill. And the advisability is to increase your percentages and not the right of the homosexuals. That's the right thing to do. You wanted to increase your percentage, not to vote by all the relatives. And so that's what you drag us behind the bill vote. For example Article 2, special electoral lists. A two-year stay, outside Europe. For them, therefore, the European Union. To rule out everyone else. As well as Article 4, supporting documents for listing. It was also submitted by the Communist Party of Greece to list the hundreds of thousands of Greeks outside the European Union. We said it wouldn't interest them. And with the ballots the same. Our position and I shall end, Mr President, is clear. All Greeks in the diaspora must finally vote. And as I ammigrant children - and do not go over it, it is important - that our President who lived there for many years and I - grew up there eleven years - I know what he will say and I can convey to you that we are particularly sensitive to this issue. Finally, despite the fact that we did not show the good example of all these years in the hostel and often whispered that they were Greeks because what we did here did not honor us, especially in politics, kept the flag of Greece high and they were proud of what they were. We saw them in the committees, we heard them, we felt them. We have seen how much they want to have the right to vote. We heard them explain why they never ceased to view Greece as their homeland. And we felt them in our flank that they never ceased to feel Greek. And I close by saying that we all have to look at the great picture in front of us, the great Greece, the global Greece, which far outweighs our dwarfs here, the party dwarfs. This global Greece must be seen. For us, the Greek Solution, it is an opportunity to show that our Parliamentary office, all here, really exists to work for our country. It is time to act our motto "First Greece, first Greeks".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u148	The State Secretary for Foreign Affairs Vlasis Konstantinos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is for me to be pleased that today's debate has almost coincided with my taking on the position of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs with responsibility for the issues of Greek democratization, a position for which I must also from the Step of the House to thank Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis for the confidence he has shown on my face. For those who do not know the relationship that we have developed with the remote Greeks it is a relationship of years and is distinguished by strong ties. From the very first moments of my involvement with the commons, I have kept in touch with them. This contact taught me that what we need to have in mind is that Greek homosexuals are not less Greek than us and that their love for the motherland is no less than the one we are living in our homeland. Perhaps, indeed, their love for their homeland often is even stronger, because they feel that what they have and have achieved owes them largely to their origins and heritage. It is touching that their efforts to involve Greek culture, Greek education, customs and customs. The flame of Greece and the Greek spirit burns lime in them and all of their contacts with their mother land is moved and filled with pride. Of all this is the paradox in their non-participation in the electoral process in a realistic and efficient way, as happens in almost all the states of the European Union. And the paradox is even more intense if we consider that in many cases these people have been magnified in foreign places, they have been distinguished in all areas and in some cases have been regulators in their second homeland. These people, this valuable potential cannot be ignored in our efforts to regenerate our country. We cannot seek their expertise, experience, ideas and many representations from the international environment. But, on the other hand, we cannot aim to help them by taking advantage of their unselfish love, allowing them to be merely viewers of what is going on in their homeland. As we all recognise, this is a particularly sensitive issue on which we share the same concerns and concerns with the deceased. Their request was timely and fair. Their demand was self-evident and it is time to be welcomed and heard, because at a time when transnational relations are being tested in a variety of ways the most solid and decisive response we can give is that of unity. This word may sound flat and any conversations about it may seem trivial, but, in essence, unity can make a difference in an ever-changing international environment. In this context, the vote of the Greek emigrants is an important and essential institutional victory for the Greek Parliament and the Greek political system. The importance of this development is multifaceted and with multiple positive implications. It is a practical recognition of the support and undeniable love of Greeks abroad to the motherland. It is an immediate application of the rationalisation approach that advocates that in the enormous effort we are making to regenerate our homeland and ensure that we are able to stand firm on its feet in the future no one is spared and that all the available, creative forces are necessary. It is a realistic assumption and adaptation to the mass fleeing of the new Greeks abroad in recent years due to the protracted economic crisis. It is a strong message with many recipients, that on important national issues we are united by the good - and only - of the country. It is a key blow to the divisive dilemmas of the past and a victory for our democracy. Today we are taking the first important step in this direction and a great share of responsibility is held by Minister Theodorikos. I understand that many can disagree with the framework agreed, many may think that the solution is below our expectations and I am sure they would like more and I am one of them. However, the failure to achieve the best solution could not serve as an excuse for not starting this process. The intention of the government and the Prime Minister may have been not to set limits and restrictions on the vote. However, the provision of the Constitution is clear: we needed two hundred votes and therefore we were all forced to make the necessary compromises, so that we could achieve the necessary consensus. The fact that an agreement has been reached is an important success and gives a solution to a matter of decades. The Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has been responsible for this, and that is what we all have to recognise. The message is one: Unified we can achieve a great deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u150	Mr Baraliacos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the nature of this bill is very important and historic. His national symbolism is undeniably strong because it touches the whole of Hellenism, it touches his long history and it concerns his face in the world's remodeled and remodeled, and that is why it requires parliamentary sympathy and national harmony. This leading process cannot be converted into a micro-participatory arena and neither into an aliquot and populist controversy. We are talking here about a debt that goes beyond us. Today's deposit is a work and property of all of us, and of the present but above all of the future. It concerns the unresolved unity and the unresolved continuity of Hellenism within and outside the borders. Hellenism over time has been an entity universal and supranational. It was not limited to the presently narrow geographical boundaries of Greece. By banging the metropolitan center the Greeks have taken their special cultural example to the edges of the world. Even when the distance from our homeland stood an inappropriate obstacle, the desire to return and concern for the fate of their compatriots has never ceased. Greece is for the demigrant Greeks the natural lighthouse around which their deepest present is formed. Besides, it is no coincidence that some of our most important national benefactors were Greeks of the Diaspora. They grew up with their economic activity in the new places that were installed, dominated and climbed fast at the highest social levels, yet they have always remained fervent and fierce patriots. Their assistance at all levels has been catalytic in the affairs of Hellenism and has contributed to the effective defence of our national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, voting for the provisions of this bill is a historic milestone in our country's parliamentary subordinates over the last few decades. The Government of Nea Democrat Republic seeking wider social consensus comes not only to fulfil its yet another election commitment in a very short time, but also to correct a permanent omission of the Greek state. Our prolongation over time was a pillar of the Greek Dispersion, abducted their justified indignation to exclude them from the official state and stood a consistent channel to this top request that is now the law of the state. The participation of the proven Greeks in the elections for the election of the representatives of the nation in Parliament has been a mature, legally-established request for constitutional prominence since 1975, but mainly morally imposed. Adopting the procedures to facilitate the participation of the Greeks in their election right is a task that we must serve with due respect and zeal. The concern of the Greeks abroad for individual technical issues regulated by the proposed provisions is understandable and fair. But the vote on this bill is the first and major step. Its application is the head office for even more facilities and improvements in the future. In closing my speech I would like to highlight, ladies and gentlemen, another important aspect of this bill. The massive wave of fleeing the new generation of Greeks that was forced to leave the country because of the economic crisis and drained our homeland from an important part of our most dynamic, gifted, hopeful capital, the so-called Brain Drain, is an open wound to the Greek society, in which we should turn every cell of our power to heal it. The way the Greeks return to their place must be manifested by all appropriate means, coordinates and design. By voting on this bill, we show in fact that they are not forgotten, we are barely counting on them. Their opinion counts for us. We want their active participation in the commons in our country, so that together we can build the conditions for the future regeneration of our country, in which they will have a leading and leading role. The draft law being passed is irresponsible from the roots of our historical past, but it goes hand in hand with a sharp look at the future. Hellenism and unity are ready to meet the challenges of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u152	Mr Christos Bukouros from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to mention the provisions of the bill, which have been properly analysed by colleagues from the whole political spectrum. I just want to say from the Step of the National Representation that today's bill is one of the moments that just makes you feel proud as a member of the National Representation, not because something big happened or something very innovative. But there has been a small revolution of self-defence in a country where, unfortunately, the self-evident remains a demand. It is with this bill that a return to logic, which often seems to be flying off walls in our country. What's today's bill doing? Does it document or institutionalise a new right for Greeks abroad? Not at all. It simply facilitates the exercise of an existing right, as every organised and democratic state must operate for its citizens, and indeed for citizens who are in difficulties of a technical nature in our participatory city, in our Parliamentary Republic. That's all we can do. However, it is pleased that the consensus reached by both the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis and the responsible Minister of the Theodorikos has been reached. Well done, we have achieved a first, small but necessary step to reach what we all know, but our political intentions lead us to side with it. What is this, ladies and gentlemen? What unites us is more than what separates us and confirms once again that unity is a key component for the timeless course of our nation and Hellenism. I would like, although I am not used to it, to propose to the only party that still raises objections to the vote on the bill, much more when this party says that it has a pan-European structure and political extroversion and is interested not only in the Greek people, but also in all the European people, to see its objections and if possible to withdraw them. Why am I asking for this? I ask for this because it would be a very strong signal to vote today's bill by three hundred MPs, a message first of all, to the interior of the country, second of all to the millions of our relatives. Thirdly, it would also be a message to our neighbours in times of geopolitical instability and tension, if you like, and threats on their part. It is a good opportunity to show absolute harmony, absolute national unity. Everyone has, after all, made a consensus. Everyone took consensus steps, the whole political spectrum from left to right. It would be a good opportunity, respecting any objections that raise, withdraw and go together with three hundred votes in this bill. Ecumenical Hellenism concerns the best ambassadors of Hellenism. It is the zoogenic power of the metropolitan centre, the ecumenical Hellenism, and it has always been such a life-threatening power, long before and since the days of the Revolution of 1821. Let's not ignore it. Let's not let a chance be lost. Above all, let us commit, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the first, small and necessary step and we will immediately continue in the next, so that the Greeks will be fully integrated and exploited where land is concerned. We need them. Their nostalgia for the homeland is given. Let us make use of this large card of Hellenism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u154	Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not disagree with the spirit of the speech of the previous colleague. However, I must point out that in total the debate on this draft law was initiated at two levels. The first is that of the finally formed version to facilitate the exercise of the right of vote of residents abroad, which seems to lead to a large majority, in the vote of the bill, i.e. a large majority. The second is that of propaganda and false impressions created against SYRIZA by the systemic media and the ruling party. The propaganda and false impressions show SYRIZA negative and opposite the vote of the Greeks abroad. That is how it has been mentioned for a long time and in the media, and the representatives of the ruling majority are also referring to it. They also show him isolated from the other parties in the process of dialogue that took place. Unfortunately, this effort continued and reached a peak with positions of the competent Minister of Interior and Members of the New Democracy and of the competent committee of Parliament, even in the process of hearing the bodies, in this case the representatives of the Greeks abroad. Today I have to say that tones are different. However, it needs restoration of the truth. The initiative, not to grant the right to vote to the Greeks abroad who have, but to facilitate their exercise in their place of residence, belongs to SYRIZA, first through the constitutional review and, in particular, Article 54 of the Constitution, with the addition of a specific provision regulating the issue - this was done in the proposed parliament - in such a way that it corresponds to the principles of democracy, the guaranteeing of the right to vote and the non-conversion of the election result. In addition, let us not forget that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group had adopted and submitted to the House the draft law that the Committee of Article 256 of Law 4555/2018 had adopted, involving scientists from all over the political spectrum and executives from the relevant Ministry of Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs. Key points of our proposal: The possibility of exercising the election right from abroad will be for all Greek voters on condition that they are registered in the special electoral lists abroad. The electoral right of these voters will be exercised in person in special sections of the abroad that will be created in the seats of Greek diplomatic authorities and elsewhere a sufficient number of voters will be gathered. Foreign voters will vote for the party's combinations of dominance for a certain number of seats to be set solely on the basis of foreign votes. SYRIZA's proposal also responds to the decisions of the Council of Deputies of Hellenism, the constitutional body expressing Greek migrants, and the report of the Committee on Democracy through the law of the Council of Europe, and also to the setting up of the National Committee on Human Rights, as well as the decisions of the European Court of Justice and European experience. This proposal facilitates Greek foreigners to vote at their place of residence, guarantees their right to have a vote, which produces results for them, and in particular to elect representatives in the Greek Parliament, that is to say, to ensure that they are entitled to vote. This safeguard is the most important, because in this way Greeks acquire voice and therefore they can put forward positions and demands which they could not put forward if only the vote were to ensure that Members were elected in a constituency. To finish, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, on the other hand, New Democracy has retreated from its original position. It did take a strategic retreat, which is reflected in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law. Finally, in the context of the search for and finding consensus, SYRIZA and the other parties accepted the logic of the proposal that the vote of the non-Greek Greeks should have as a prerequisite their real tie with Greece, which results in the conditions set out in this bill as well. The government's acceptance of the right to vote is added to this, and also to the establishment of the intergroup with decisive responsibilities. It is, therefore, a bill that actually emits a unified spirit, but I had to restore things exactly what they were, because, unfortunately, all this time, they were moving on opinions, moving versions that had nothing to do with the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u156	The parliamentary representative of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Above all, I would like to emphasise once again that Greece has lost its national sovereignty in 2012 with the signature of the PSI while subjugating everything. In 2015, and she lost her financial system and was forced to transfer all her assets to the excess. Today, following the loss of the name of Macedonia, it is likely in exchange for the extension of EUR 96 billion for the period after 2032, rather by extortion from Germany, that its territorial integrity is at risk very seriously by Turkey. Therefore, as much as unity, cohesion and assistance from all Greeks in and out of the country are needed, so as not to be lost as a nation. Because now a SYRIZA MEP has referred to Italy by saying things that do not apply, we want to know about this. A Italian who has been permanently resident in Greece for thirty years, without making a tax declaration in Italy, is voting in Greece, his wife and children who, while born in Greece and staying in Greece, retain the right to vote, since they are entitled to have citizenship and citizenship from their father. On the subject now, having lived several years abroad, I know very well that the Greeks who live there love Greece much more than we do. However, they also feel rejection from their homeland, which did not even allow them to vote, despite the fact that they travel year after year with substantial amounts, they send significant transfers to their relatives and support our country's economy by consuming or selling Greek products in their countries of residence. Staying in states such as Germany, which are usually treated hostilely as foreign immigrants, while in recent years they have been constantly afflicted by Greece's debt problems, in those countries where they feel foreign, while when they come to Greece, they also feel foreign. It is a difficult thing to understand, if it does not have the specific experience, which we hope will change even with this incomplete draft law that is being tabled today. We as a Greek Solution, although we consider it a very small step in the right direction, with too many mistakes, of course we will vote in favour of it. Now, according to a 2017 survey I will present in the Minutes, about 65% of the Greeks who live in Greece agree with the possibility of voting on the revenues. It is 75% of citizens who want it, and 90% of those who have migrated relatively recently. I will also submit it to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, on the basis of another study by the University of Oxford since 2019, in cooperation with DENNOS, the rate is unfortunately falling to 67.9% of immigrants after the crisis, with 24.9% of immigrants themselves considering strangely that Greeks abroad should not have the right to vote. This is alarming, since it shows a tendency to alienate even hostility, which will probably exacerbate this bill, since it is in the right direction, but reduces the number of those who could vote to a large extent under the conditions it lays down. We should note here that migration due to the crisis is the third in a row in Modern Greek History and the second largest, since it was estimated in 2018 to six hundred thousand people, but without the trend being halted, especially in young people, since conditions in our economy are not improved. And according to data from the Central Association of Chambers of Greece, we have left our country a hundred and eighty thousand graduates, while 76% of today's teenagers are also thinking about immigrating. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Obviously, the situation is extremely worrying when it comes to the future of Greece, how much more so since deaths go far beyond births with demographics to develop into one of the biggest problems in our country. In combination with the ever-increasing change in the population from the migratory influx of Asian and Africans, Greece's future is not being erased prosperous. While we must not forget that the growth of a country's economy depends entirely on the number and quality of its inhabitants. On the other hand, the assessment of the size of the family depends on how each individual determines Greekity, given that not all Greeks have Greek passports. However, according to estimates of the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic, more than five million Greek citizens live in forty countries of the world, of which three million in the United States, one million in Europe, including Russia and the eastern countries, seven hundred thousand in Australia, three hundred thousand in Canada, one hundred thousand in Asia-Africa and sixty thousand in Central and South America. Of the three million, of course, in the United States, only three hundred thousand speak Greek. However, 70% of the Greeks of the second generation and 60% of the third are aware of their Greek origin and state proud of it while they have adopted Greek traditions. In conclusion, with regard to the basic arguments put forward against the vote of the Greeks, I will say the following: firstly, the payment of taxes on their part, so that their vote is more responsible, is wrong, since taxes on Greeks abroad are not rewardable, such as taxes on all of us. For example, they do not use the public infrastructure for which taxes are paid. So it's not right for anyone to charge them. Secondly, the argument that out-of-presidents may overreact elections does not seem to be intimidating other countries. Like the example of Portugal that 14% of its citizens live abroad or 9.1% of Poland, which also lives abroad when both of these countries allow their immigrants to vote. Finally, according to the results of the European elections allowed to vote abroad, the results were not so different from those of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u158	Mr Theodorikos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the step taken by the national Parliament with a sense of responsibility, but also of deep satisfaction, because we are now able to do to a significant extent to make it easier for Greeks to vote abroad from the country in which they are located. A request for decades of Greek immigrant organisations, a constitutionally unequivocal democratic right for citizens living abroad, takes place. The vote on this bill today is very national and political because of its content, but also because it takes place at a very special time for our country. Greece, with the political change marked by the elections of 7 July, is orbiting significant economic growth and reconstruction. After a decade of deep crisis and false divisional dilemmas that have brought back the country, optimism is coming back for today and tomorrow in the country and society. At the same time, however, we are under severe threat from neighbouring Turkey, which is systematically violating our sovereign rights and the country is receiving waves of illegal immigrants and refugees, with the European borders closed behind us, and is also seriously threatened by the demographic problem that is evolving into a time bomb. We need as much as ever to implement an integrated national strategy that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has developed and promoted. A national strategy that assumes consents and shocks, particularly with regard to policy areas that are directly related to our national interests. In the context of this national strategy, it is absolutely essential to mobilise global Hellenism and, at the same time, to implement an obscene and essential concern for younger generations within and outside Greece. This also requires, in turn, the continuation of the fundamental link between Greeks abroad and their homeland. And this bond is other than their self-evident, democratic and constitutionally guaranteed right to be able to vote for Greece from the country they are in. For these reasons, the vote today by all the members of the National Representation of this bill will be an important act that symbolises the national unity, but also the basic credibility of our political system towards the Greek people and against the democratic Hellenism. It took forty-five years to allow the political system of the country to do so today. Ladies and gentlemen, the interest of the great liberal party in facilitating the vote of Greeks abroad is continuous and time-consuming. In the first decade of this century, the Government of New Democracy with Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis and Minister of Interior, the current President of the Republic of Prokopi Pavlopoulou tabled a proposal to facilitate Greeks abroad to vote from the country in which they live. It was not possible at that time to gather the required majority of the two-thirds Members, and neither did the corresponding efforts made by Antonis Samaras in the very difficult Memorandum years that ruled the country. Since taking over the leadership of the New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis has made systematic efforts to facilitate the vote of Greeks abroad. The New Democracy as a Civic Opposition has tabled legislative proposals, which have never agreed to be discussed in the years of previous governance. And so we have arrived nowadays when the crucial dilemma was set before us: to move through compromises and convergings with the other parties, seeking a common place with them, in order to gather the two-voting votes, or to insist to the end in our opinion, and therefore to relocate the opportunity to vote for a law that produces results? The decision was clear and firm. We wanted and want to achieve an agreement that takes us forward, enables the Greeks abroad to vote from the country in which they are located, an agreement which will be operational. That is why the Prime Minister took an important decision which announced on 31 July to separate the debate on the electoral system, the next parliamentary elections, the general elections, from the debate on the Greeks abroad. This decision greatly facilitated subsequent developments and the Prime Minister at the meetings with the political leaders on 11 October clearly set a single red line, the equivalent of the Greeks' vote abroad with that of all of us who are voting domestically. It is this, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officer, to allow me to say, and it is the main difference between the Haritsis finding and the content of today's bill that this law that you too are now accepting, gives the opportunity for an equitable election to be held in the country with the right to vote on Greeks abroad. When this red line was put on the table, the possibility of agreement between the parties, which would lead to two hundred votes, was also demonstrated. Efforts were followed through the meetings of the Intergroup, held on 16, 21 and 22 October. In these discussions the New Democracy described its main position, that all Greeks vote without discrimination and exceptions and that the best method is that of the letter vote. It was clear that with this position we had no chance at all of bringing together two hundred votes, as in this respect they only converged two parties, the Change Movement and the Greek Solution, which had a very positive contribution to this case from the outset. However, in the discussions of the intergroup, we have entered openly, without prejudice, without any idea. The only red line was what the Prime Minister said. We have followed and analysed very carefully the structured arguments of the other parties, parties with which we are divided into deep ideological differences, such as the Communist Party, but we are discussing with them, with respect and, above all, with credibility, seeking to understand the causes and reasons of their own positions and arguments. We have done so in a very persistent and systematic way until we have reached an agreement, which is, in many cases, described in the bill that we are called upon to vote today. The solution we give is not ideal, it is not ideal. But it is the only politically realistic and the only one that can take us forward. It is clear that this content is the point of agreement on the current political system. They contributed positively to this, of course, by ranking all parties with their representatives in the intergroup, and I thank them for that. It is, of course, ahead of this point of the political system in the past few years and decades, but it is very far behind where the Greek people's perceptions are, and especially the Greeks, who would like to avoid any exceptions and discrimination. With the solution we are giving, however, we are achieving something that I consider to be important. All young people up to thirty years of age can vote from the country in which they are situated, in fact without any condition at all. In this way, hundreds of thousands of young children who left our country either to study or to career in order to find a better solution to the years of the crisis, hundreds of thousands of children who are the body and hope of Greece today and tomorrow have the right to vote. Our concern for this generation is not an opportunity, it is a priority for this government and it is expressed with important combined policies relating to employment, support for young couples and family in our country. At the same time, I stress that there is no limit to the law on when someone left the country, in relation to his right to vote from the country he is from. Whether someone left 20, thirty, forty or fifty years from home, the requirement demanded by the law is to be able to prove by public documents that in the last thirty-five years there have been at least two and not necessarily on a continuous basis, in which he has been in Greece, either to work in the private or public sector, to develop business, or to study, to attend a public or private technical vocational school, or to carry out his military obligation towards the home country. In reality, therefore, with the existence of these conditions, the vast majority of Greeks abroad have the opportunity to participate in the relevant regulations. The conditions described for an active tax declaration must be clear that in no case have they come, because we are interested in the class mark in the course, life and identity of every Greek citizen, but simply because political forces have placed the need to demonstrate the awareness of the citizens' interests in terms of the political situation of the country, as well as a fundamental economic institution with the country. This regulation, therefore, concerns hundreds of thousands of Greeks abroad. It matters how many of them will want to take advantage of this possibility. This depends on the messages that the National Representation and the political system will receive today and the next time, on the information we have to make to Greeks abroad, and of course on the attitude that will be taken by the Greek migrants' organizations and forces. For this additional reason today, we are all called upon to vote with force positively and decisively on this bill, each exceeding its own separate proposals. Let us vote unanimously by sending a very strong message to our compatriots all over the earth. Greece embraces them, loves them, as they love their homeland, and today we take a step together to satisfy their basic democratic right. Personally, ladies and gentlemen, I consider the 'all or nothing' wrong, which supports their passion and their love for the homeland of some homosexual organizations, because we have seen that for so many years we have been stuck in nothing, and that is very unfair to young people, who, as we said before, have left the years of the crisis abroad. One cannot exclude them from the place where they were born and took their first steps. I would also like to say to you, when some people ask whether I see the glass half full or half-empty in this case, that in both cases this glass has water in it, and if not all of us vote on this arrangement, this glass does not have a drop in it. They also wonder whether all this insistent effort by the government leads to it losing its ideological clarity and political aiming, is to exercise consensus on consensus as an end in itself. Of course that is not the case. The parties have different value and ideological references and different political advancements. But when it comes to matters directly relating to the national interest, to fundamental national unity and to fundamental democratic rights, consensus is necessary and is an act of responsibility for us all rather than a communication tactic. To those who have not accused the government, on the occasion of this bill, that this is a small-party tacticalism, to do something that the New Democracy will benefit in votes in the next elections, I have to tell them in the capacity of the political scientist and analyst that if someone is obviously damaged by the existence of terms and conditions, which are obviously more damaging to immigrants who have been absent for many decades from the country, this someone is political forces that have historical political identity. And the New Democracy, of course, has historical political identity and much of the expatriates who migrated many decades ago are traditionally close to its own and conservative and liberal values. Therefore, we have not moved for a moment by micro-party tactics. We have proved this from the outset so far with the successive amendments we have tabled, so that we do not leave any doubt to anyone. There are some who are concerned that we have finally lost the essence. They're not right. In politics, you only proceed with forward-looking compromises, which lead you to divisions. After all, the government did the same with the Constitutional Review. A constitutional review, which certainly offered positive arrangements, but forcedly left critical and important issues out of discussion for reasons relating to the previous governmental majority. Here we have achieved a great step forward and it is in the hands of the Greeks to move much further in the future, applying this regulation and moving forward. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not important to note one more point. Over the last few days, the Civic Opposition has been attacking our Government with an obsolete, let me say, and an unreserved rhetoric to rectify the authoritarian police state of the evil right. Today it turns out that what you are trying to call evil Right is simply a large liberal people's party that has the ability to address all Greeks, has the ability to unite forces, has the ability to lead to shocks and self-evidently defend democratic rights of all Greeks, taking important political initiatives with wider resonance. It has the ability to move forward with the country and in the area of democracy and social participation and, of course, in the area of civil security, which is a prerequisite for freedom. I want to hang up with a call. Greek women and Greeks who are abroad, our compatriots, who are currently listening to us and watching the debate in the Greek Parliament, will shortly listen to the Prime Minister of Greece, you will listen to the political leaders. You know that, despite the limitations, despite the difficulties and obstacles, you are the same Greek as we do, you love the country as we love it, we are and we will be united as never before and that is the prerequisite for keeping our country up and moving forward. As you have done your duty in the past, I am sure you will do so now and you will help achieve this arrangement that we are voting on today and in the next hundreds of thousands of Greeks will vote from the country in which they are located. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, in particular, to thank the Prime Minister of the country for the confidence he showed me by giving me the tasks of the Minister of the Interior, which in fact involved this responsible and difficult task, but to thank him for his continued support throughout this time in many difficulties and misery that this effort had. The result could not be achieved if I did not have that support. I also want political and human to thank the Deputy Minister for our excellent cooperation and continued support in this effort, especially in critical technical parameters. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all taking a step forward today. Citizens and our homeland need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they attend the meeting, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS", thirty students and students and two teachers from the 1st High School of Charilaou of Thessaloniki (first section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speech is given by the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitris Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the developments of the last decade with the outbreak of the economic crisis, with the memoranda, which have caused new waves of immigration, particularly young people, and not only, have made the call more urgent for these people to be involved in the electoral processes in our country. As we have said many times and have proved, the JRC has dealt with and dealt with this issue without regularism, with the aim of finding a solution that will facilitate Greeks who work or study abroad, who have ties with the country and possibly hope of returning to it, to exercise their electoral right from their residence, because we consider this world to be an integral part of the Greek people who were forced to leave abroad. Regardless of our positive vote and the coincidence with other parties in this bill, this attitude of the KKE authorities differed radically from the attitude they held from the beginning of other political forces, which gave the impression that they mainly measured the votes of the deceased as beans to determine their position and either sought, on the occasion of the vote of the deputies, an artificial overcrowding of the electorate, such as the New Democracy and the KINAL, whether they were hiding behind controversial and dangerous shapes, such as SYRIZA, effectively denying this right to the demigrant Greeks. And since the krone on consensus, national consensus, we would like to point out that the JRC will not allow the major responsibilities of the political forces behind this bill, especially the New Democracy, the SYRIZA - PASOK and the KINAL - PASOK to be concealed, responsibility for the fact that these people have been persecuted from our country because of your policy, the anti-grassroots path that you have all followed, because immigration and refugee are not of course phenomena. Also responsible for the fact that these people are not going back to our country, despite the fact that you are celebrating growth, for the good economic climate. As for the five hundred and all the young people and young people who will return to work with a good wage, which of course you are subsidising 70%, you know that it is a drop in the ocean of the five hundred thousand who have left the country in these years of crisis. And you also know that, if they decide to go back, what they are expected is flexibility for six out of ten jobs, an average salary of about EUR 409 for parttime work that is now seven hundred thousand workers. The great responsibilities of these political forces also concern the lives of these people in their countries of residence, especially in matters of education, taxation and others that show their timeless abandonment by the Greek state. The statements and protests we receive every year about the situation of Greek schools and, in general, Greek-language education abroad are a typical example. But it's not the only one. There are also responsibilities that they have to do with themselves to vote from their countries of residence abroad. Despite the fact that this possibility existed since 2001, New Democracy and PASOK, the once-in-a-lifed bipartisanism, which has the first responsibility for leaving these people abroad, never acted with them, although the two of them were then two hundred votes. And they didn't because they were dealing with these people solely as an election client in their competition. And so they never made sure they did the elementary, a census, to see how many Greek citizens are abroad. So let the hypocrisy and so - called affection that has now taken you for the emigrants stop. The problems faced by Greek immigrants in their relationship with the Greek state are not due to a deficit of representation, mainly due to a lack of political will. And the facility given by today's law in the exercise of their electoral right must be exploited by themselves and in order to punish those political forces responsible for their hostility and for their abandonment over the years. We in these compatriots are, in particular, addressing employees, employees, scientists, self-employed, professionals, students, that is to say all those who see in and from their own experience that the situation in other countries, that is, those who have emigrated, is not rose. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC's proposal has three main priorities in order to exercise the electoral right at the place of residence. The first axis is the existence of real economic and social links with Greece, such as tax obligations and not just a general mental bond. After all, even at the core of the urban democratic perception of formal equality of voting rights is the correlation of the right to vote in the parliamentary elections on the one hand and the existence of obligations on the other, that is to say, having the consequences of any political choice. The second axis is the existence of a maximum time absence from the country or a minimum presence time in the country. The third axis of our proposal is the personal presence in election parties abroad, which guarantees the secrecy and the validity of the vote. But above all it guarantees effective political participation in an electoral process, contrary to all these well-known theories of e-democracy, e-electoral or digital democracy, which are very fashionable lately. These proposals also cover the above, especially in the years of the crisis, but also far behind and form a electorate that resembles the living conditions of the Greek people within the country, as well as the special and difficult conditions of immigration. These proposals do not constitute a restriction or a loss of electoral rights. Those who do not have the conditions to join these lists do not mean they lose the right to vote. They are simply conditions for the exercise of the electoral right through their inclusion in the special electoral lists abroad. We have therefore set out some necessary criteria to prevent the electorate from being changed with voters who may not have any knowledge of the Greek reality or have real, substantial ties with the country and, above all, do not suffer the consequences of any political choices. We are talking, in other words, about people who, because of their long stay abroad - most may have been born abroad and are descendants of old immigrants - have objectively integrated into the societies of these countries. They have linked their lives and their future to these societies. More importantly, they form a political consciousness, a criterion based on developments, correlation, the state of the movement, the politically assumed in these countries and not on the basis of what was said in Greece. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr Konstantinos TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Was there a risk of the electorate being damaged? Unfortunately, there was. And there was, because in Greek citizenship law still dominates the anachronistic law of blood, which no party, other than the JRC, has - and does not raise - the question of its change. On the contrary, in the proposals by the other parties to vote for the results, despite their individual differences, the right to blood is dominated by all. This law results from those who even have a distant Greek origin - it is enough for a very distant ancestor - to acquire Greek citizenship. And this acquisition of citizenship automatically involves registering on the electoral lists and therefore, the right to vote for many more thousands who can possibly be registered on the electoral lists, which, although they originate in Greece, although they love Greece - you do not question this - do not know the Greek political reality. They have no ties. They do not form a criterion and consciousness based on this reality, but on the basis of the reality in the societies that live. In order to avoid that, therefore, certain criteria had to be put in place to facilitate voting from the place of residence, even though this might create some injustices. We believe that the existence of criteria is in the interest of the Commission itself. Because it can be imagined and think about what damage can be caused if it is shown that the outcome of the electoral battles, who is in the government, who is elected to or does not enter the House etc. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer to this question. This can pave the way for them to be reasonable - or within or outside the country - in our view too dangerous. This risk is prevented by this proposal that runs on international practice and experience, on the legislation of other countries. The JRC's proposal is based on the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and, above all, has been accepted by large parts of the Greek people, because it is a reasonable, coherent and comprehensive proposal. That is why the JRC's proposal has been focused - if you like - on discussion or reflection, and not on why the JRC has become or is regulator or could have been a deregulation of the whole procedure, as was moved by a number of people. Of course, our vote in favour of the bill does not mean at all accepting the arguments of the other parties, the Greek Government, which is thus growing, for our national laws which will now find new expressions and various other sweeteners. The ordinary people, the Greek immigrants, the Greeks, have always struggled and been interested in the problems of the country and the Greek people unselfishly, unlike, of course, with various lobbys of great economics or - if you like - mainly political interests. Because the class structure, as it exists in Greek society, also exists in the same family. And there, there is the Greek worker, the employee, the student, the hired scientist, the family small businessman who is fighting in difficult circumstances in the hostel. As are the various great ones, the various circuits, the exploiters. At times, in fact, we have seen Greeks in the origin of senators, for example in the United States, who neither for the break-up in the Aegean, nor for the United States, say anything, nor for the so-called national issues, nor for any other reason, who supported governments in the United States of America, for example, by defending the interests of the United States, but also by walking or even ignoring the sovereign rights of Greece, the Greek people through various alliances and in every way. Not that there are no honest people of course among them. We're not saying that. So, with regard to national laws - although the term is neither precise nor correct, in our view - and the question of these national laws, particularly today, is the problem. And, unfortunately, it is not going to be solved by the vote on the motions for resolutions. Because the Greek governments and their politicians over time are part of the problem. And the policy that embraces the doctrine that if Greece is the good boy of NATO, the United States, the European Commission, it will, allegedly, protect its sovereign rights is fully and proven and historically bankrupt. And in this doctrine, unfortunately, you are all - certainly with ratings - attached, agitated. So won is our people in our alliances, so security and protection provide NATO and the agreements with the United States that you have all reached the point of putting the dilemma to the people in one way or another: concentration, retreat with Turkey or conflict and finally military engagement? He came to the news again these days on the occasion of the unacceptable agreement between Turkey and a so-called Libyan government. Only this false dilemma is equally dangerous for the present and the future of our people for our sovereign rights, for peace. Because in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Aegean Sea, there are important and rich deposits of hydrocarbons, mainly natural gas. These lookes, apart from Greece's bourgeois class and Turkey's bourgeois class, as well as other states in the region. However, major powers such as the United States of America, France, Britain, Italy, Germany, Russia, China and so on are being deployed. And our people need to know that these intense competitions about who will put the wealth of an entire region in hand, with mathematical accuracy, lead to warfare. Such competitions are behind long imperialist interventions in the Middle East, North Africa, Libya. The JRC, once again, is clearly placed in the hands of the workers, the people and the young people, as is the case with our hostiles. We reject the various such fake dilemmas. There must be no retreat to Greece's sovereign rights on the part of the Greek Government. Any negotiation, agreement and arrangement with Turkey must be based on international law, the Law of the Sea, the sovereign rights. Of course, developments show that imperialist friends don't get caught. We consider that what can shake the water well and illuminate another way out is the decay of this deadly NATO hug. It is the struggle to close all the bases in our country, to open the way for other alternatives in coordination with the peoples, with the peoples of the region and the rest of the world, for radical changes. Our position, the Greek people together with the people of Turkey, the other peoples in the region, must impose in their struggle the release of such imperialist organisations, is the most friendly place for both our peoples and our countries. We are not saying that we should not have a wide range of good relations with all the countries of the world, first of all with all our region. It is important to develop such relationships of cooperation and equivalence with all the countries of the world. These relationships, however, mainly rely on the peoples, their movements, their friendships, their struggles, in these countries. They must also be based on one authority, one that defends the interests of the workers. And not defend the interests of the various business colleges, which are eaten like dogs for who will put a first hand in wealthy sources, both in our country and in the whole region. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by saying this: the draft budget for the vote on the motion for a resolution has been invoked by the same vote. Of course, this parity is invoked selectively, but it is a card. Because there is no equivalent vote today even in its formal sense. Because there is, in fact, no such system under which there is a wall when there are bonuses in the electoral law. And even you prepare an election law in a worse direction, reintroducing the bonus. And you blackmail the other opposition parties to consent to the formation of a new electoral law, which will exclude the double elections, which will only be held to abolish the previous more proportionate law. Your call on you to ensure stability or prevent adventures is the main argument for propaganda, but only to ensure the stability of bipolarism, bipartism - as we used to call it - against the real people's interests and the existent concerns of ordinary people, our people. At the same time, of course, you of the New Democracy are giving it to SYRIZA - who is now the post-modern PASOK - to restore the unspeakable memory of the "democratic forces" here and of the "bad right" from there, which even his members - of the coalition, of course - fought against the '80s and afterward, just to play your krone today. Of course, the SYRIZA executives then seemingly opposed them not from a position of principle again, but because they wanted to become PASOK in the position of PASOK, also to be rounded down in the chairs of the bourgeois power. So stop telling you the various blackmails. Since there is no self-respecting government, you can well find it among yourselves, as you did in the summer of 2015 in the critical phase of voting on the 3rd disgraceful memorandum. After all, you have a similar policy on the crucial issues. Nor do we think that, in the leadership of SYRIZA, they are overshadowed with the prospect of coexistence even with the New Democracy. You see what she thinks and what SYRIZA's leadership seeks by patronising part of her left chaste base is at a different wavelength from the pure intentions of most of her workers. The evolution of SYRIZA in PASOK is such that a kernel of gradients in SYRIZA has already succeeded, not only once, with the abbreviation - as you called it - on the right, with the New Democracy. They don't need any more words and evidence. The facts and positions of all speak. As much as the tons of confrontation are rising between the present duplex of the civil system, there is an undeniable given fact. The Greek people have a united block of forces that serves with passion and stability now the policy of big capital, the European Union, NATO. To put obstacles to this policy, therefore, to open up the way for better working and living conditions, to defend popular rights, there is also one given: Fighting with the JRC on the way to the struggle with the intention of ensuring a wide-ranging anti-capitalist, anti-monopoly in content, alliance, where everything is finally judged. And in this way are our compatriots Greek immigrants, workers, students, scientists who firsthand see that in the other countries, in the countries they live, the capitalist dream is becoming more and more into nightmares, and even in the era of the 4th new industrial revolution, the huge development of science, technology, the great socialization of production and man's own potential to live with prosperity and happiness everywhere. We all know very well that this means passing through a new organisation of the economy, a whole new society, with the power and ownership of the people who actually produce all this wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u162	And we thank Mr. Koutsuba. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr. Fottenian Gennamata, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, I am truly impressed by how many times Parliament's PASOK step has been mentioned. And I am really glad that he is slowly but consistently restored his value and his contribution throughout this historic route. Only one comment on Mr Koutsouba: is it no longer, Mr Koutsouba, SYRIZA, your former partners at the interior KKE? We'll talk about this some other time in private.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u164	Yeah, sixty years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u165	I would therefore like to begin my position, since tomorrow we have a crucial European Council with our national issues. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Turkish- Libyan agreement enhances the Turkish provocation at the level of aggressive moves. We have the beginning of a new period of Turkish expansion in the heart of Greek sovereign rights, as determined by International Maritime Law. We now have a new, dangerous and negative leap to Turkish planning, a new reality, which imposes alertness with temptation and determination. There must be clear national lines, which will be supported and supported by the necessary national unity. Four priorities for defending national interests: first, targeted diplomatic activity not only with information, but with a demand for active support and solidarity from the European Union, NATO and all international organisations. In particular, the European Council must clarify in relation to Turkey's illegal memorandum with Libya that the European Union and the Member States do not recognise the Turkish - Libyan memorandum, do not recognise maritime zones that have been illegally demarcated. And secondly, that it will impose sanctions against acting in a illegally demarcated zone, which concerns a Member State of the European Union. This will be an important step in creating a wider international front for our rights that we need today. In this context, both you, Prime Minister, the People's Party and I in the Socialist Party will take the necessary steps to achieve the best possible outcome. Secondly, strengthening all the cooperation schemes built up in the Eastern Mediterranean, but also bilateral initiatives with countries that concern stability and security in the region from Russia to China and every country that has interests in our region. Thirdly, the immediate qualitative upgrading of the national deterrent forces. We have the advantage of having a high-level experienced and reliable staff in the armed forces. We must therefore provide them with all the means to make it clear that anyone who applies a finger to our national sovereign rights will lose their hand. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Fourthly, we must seek to demarcate maritime zones with the border countries. To make it clear to Turkey that the only way to resolve the dispute is to The Hague under international law. Recognise the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, start talks on the drafting of the promise to lead us to settle the dispute. All this gains strength and produces results on the basis of unity. The Greeks want peace, we want good neighbourlyness, understanding and cooperation. Our national red line is defending our sovereign rights. Anyone who wants to exercise violence in order to trespass our legitimate sovereign rights must know from now on that he will pay dearly the price. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting, I dare say, is historic. The vote of the Greek foreigners is finally taking place. It has taken eighteen years since the decisive initiative of the PASOK during the 2001 constitutional review that gave the green light to move forward. It is self-evident that Greeks may vote. As it goes without saying that they have the right to vote, the opportunity to vote on children, the young scientists who have stayed out in the crisis in recent years seeking a better future. It is their right, it is a matter of national importance, it is our duty to ensure it. We took a very clear position from the first moment. We suggested that all Greek residents should have the right to vote if they are registered on electoral lists and polls. In order to participate in the elections from their place of residence or work, we asked for an update of their registration with a statement to the local consulates and embassies of the Hellenic Republic. We call upon them to be able to express their participation by written vote and procedures that will ensure its validity fully. We have made it clear that it is necessary to count on the overall national election result. We have made it quite clear from the outset our proposal for the real representation of the results we have asked for through the creation of a new single region of Greek foreign residents who will elect MPs through the special votes of the parties. With these proposals we sought the widest possible participation of Greek foreigners in the parliamentary elections, full transparency in voting procedures, representation as a distinctive category in the House through MPs who will be elected and represented. The way to dialogue, however, was not easy at all. From the outset, New Democracy did not consult its proposals and was limited to leakages, apparently choosing its logic by seeing and doing, and SYRIZA made the unprecedented political and institutional person suggesting that the Greeks vote outside the national outcome of the elections should not be taken into account, thus completely violating the constitutional principle of equality of vote and confronting the migrant Greeks as second-class citizens. Alongside the beginning and until the end, SYRIZA objected to the dialectic vote and to the facilitation of fraud in the exercise of their electoral right. The JRC also laid down a number of conditions and conditions which significantly limited the body of the foreign electorate. With all the above it is easy to conclude that exactly when we underlined the self-evidentness and fought for it, others put an asterisk and questions. When we supported the universality of voting others laid down conditions that led to exclusion. And when we insisted toward the end in the letter vote others clearly refused it and got to the point of vetoing. When we put on the table not only the vote of the deputies, but also their representation with the election of Members representing them, others suggested that they should not even be included in the national outcome. Ladies and gentlemen, the piece of legislation that we are seeking today is obviously not what we are looking for. It is inferior, fearful and with quite a few problematic points. Why? Because party legs prevailed. It is, of course, a start. And that is why, despite our objections and our reservations, we give our vote in favour, because even under these conditions, we are taking the first step in the direction that we are pursuing. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] That is why the Change Movement made the greatest efforts, but also a number of retreats to reach a first agreement, worked hard and stubbornly so that there could be consensus and even that principle. When this dialogue began, it seemed that there was absolutely no prospect of understanding. We have today succeeded with perseverance and faith in the importance of this political project to achieve the minimum of an agreement by the political forces. We have patiently and voluntarily opened the debate on the right of representation, the right to be elected, and we have finally succeeded in forming and accepting our alternative proposal with the compulsory participation of three candidates from outsiders in the list of candidates, one of whom will be included in the first three posts. The Greeks from abroad judge us, compare us and evaluate us. They historically judge all the political forces of the country and their attitude in time. They compare the positions of each political area and the purity in their wording. And finally they evaluate the honesty and consistency as well as the distractions, cubulations and micro-party purposes that each serves. We feel that we have really been consistent and accountable to this issue. We have clearly expressed our positions, we have not hidden behind objections from another party, we have opened roads to reach consensus and agreement from all parties on the issue of representation of voters. It is quite simply the way we understand the agreement. Unfortunately, there are not really too many believers seeking agreement on big issues in the country. Unfortunately few prove to be. Ladies and gentlemen, all this time, in recent months, we have met with many representatives of impunity. I have studied their positions in the committee responsible, but also the statements sent to us. I understand their deep disappointment and share what they mean when they say they feel infected with the terms and conditions set to have the right to register on the electoral lists. How do they feel not to be offended when at the time when the dissidents protest strongly, while the President of the Hellenic Community of Brussels distributes from the Senate's Step that he will not vote in the next elections because he does not fulfil the tax and time requirements laid down by the law, many among us pretend to understand absolutely nothing. We reiterate the request made by the people themselves without spins: the letter of vote is necessary. It is a practice tried, a possibility that is decisive to facilitate and ultimately the participation of the deceased. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Even now, ladies and gentlemen, there is room for us to go over and agree all together. The Government has already repeatedly stated by its Minister that it is finally in agreement with the letter of vote. The Qualified Opposition by its Chief of Staff of Mr. Tsipras said in June 2009 at the 19th Conference of the Federation of Greek Communities of Sweden, to which he had attended, a defender of the letter of vote. Of course, Mr Tsipras is reluctant today and he should explain this change in his position, as does the JRC. However, the restrictions imposed by the bill on participation cause an incredible suffering, bureaucracy and exclude too many. They are able to vote on the economically weak, in short to those who do not have the opportunity to buy the air ticket to come to Greece to vote. So the restrictions you put lead to a class vote. Think about it again. We will not stop insisting that all these problematic arrangements should be changed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Hellenism of the Diaspora is a national power. It is the right of those who vote and have our own duty to make it easier for them to participate. One word I would like to say: Do not prevent Odysseus from returning to Ithaca, that is, to his home. We still have room to fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st High School of Charilaou Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, on 3 April 1975 and in the new Greek Parliament, the first time after seven years of tyranny the new democratic constitution is being discussed. The majority rapporteur, Dimitrios Papaspyrou, presents Article 51 and expresses his fourth paragraph: "A law may define the exercise of the electoral right by non-national electorate." This is stated in words and the article is voted on. In the 2001 Review - emblematic, as you described it, Mr. Gennimata - the article is amended. However, a majority of two hundred MPs are now required to vote on the relevant law. And yet, finally, it had to be forty - four years and eight months to receive this article legal flesh and bones. I am proud that this is on the initiative of the New Democracy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am proud that it is happening, as it seems, and with a great cross-party consensus, which I am sure could have been achieved much earlier if the previous governmental majority had chosen to pass a bill on it. I would like to remind you that a proposal for a New Democracy law has been tabled twice, which has never been discussed. But it's not too late, it's never too late. And this particular emblem in contacting Greeks abroad with the country was an institutional signal in a country that I recall established the universal suffrage since 1864 and has been respecting the principle of declared since 1875. But there was also a deficit of democracy and modern operation for a state in the centre of the 21st century. Therefore, today's meeting could be literally historic. He responds to a long request from yesterday. He responds to a need of today and certainly opens the way for all Hellenism for a better tomorrow. With the law that we are voting on today, we give flesh and bone to the recent enhanced constitutional safeguard of the possibility for Greeks abroad to vote in their permanent residence. It was a reform that accepted over two thirds of the National Representation, which may have been proposed by the government majority, but it gained scope thanks to the inter-party dialogue surrounding it. Thus, it is a victory of Parliament and unity, a model of consensus and political consensus. After all, from the outset I said that I wanted to, I hoped, and I hoped that such a cut would be voted on by all three hundred Members of this House. But I'm happy, because we're even going to get closer to this number. I am making a last-minute appeal to the only party, which has said that it will not vote on the bill, to revise its position. Mr Varoufakis, I would consider this bill to be extremely important for symbolic reasons, despite his imperfections and weaknesses - I shall refer to them - to have been voted for by all Greek MPs without exception. It is true that the initial introduction of the government majority and the initial introduction of the Change Movement were clearly more generous to our fellow citizens abroad. Our proposal, as it had been tabled in the public debate, did not impose restrictions on the scale of the electorate and, of course, did recognise the letter vote. I would remind you that it was constitutionally guaranteed since 2001. This was the positive addition of the 2001 Review. The negative addition was the two-member parliamentarians, the vast majority required by the Constitution to pass the law. But, as you know, the Constitution requires an agreement of two hundred MPs to bring about any change. We were therefore indebted to the great goal of being flexible on the road towards achieving it. We called in dialogue with all the political forces. The committee responsible met within ten days three times and then had several contacts to further specialise the proposals. I myself personally met with the political leaders, always seeking the best possible consensus in a spirit of goodwill. Of course, the Minister for the Interior did the same with zeal and zeal and his side by the Minister of State. I would like to thank them and congratulate them on the effort they have made. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions which will be adopted today by a large majority incorporate four key points. I don't suppose you'll change your mind. If at least I judge what you have said in committee, do not surprise us. Convergences have been noted in four points, which form the backbone of the reform. The first and most importantly, one unnegotiable condition set by the government by a majority: the absolute measurement of the vote of the non-national Greek voters in the national total result of the elections. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I wonder how any other alternative proposal could be considered, which is fundamentally in line with the requirements of the Constitution. You know that any different approach would be directly unconstitutional, would be contrary to the rule of democratic representation and the equivalence of votes. Secondly, our compatriots will be able to exercise their right to vote in elections with at least forty voters. These will be created in embassies, consulates, as well as in facilities of impoverished persons, as well as in other buildings in the countries where the distance from the home of the national authorities is high. Thirdly, they increase from twelve to fifteen Member States, including non-border voters. There will be candidates and candidates for the dispersion. Any other solution concerning the crusade of foreign voters would create insurmountable technical problems. It is now necessary - it was right that the proposal made and accepted by the governmental majority - three in the fifteen candidates of the prestige ballot should be registered in the special electoral lists abroad, one of whom, at least, should be in one of the first three positions. It's your suggestion, Mrs. Gennamas. I don't have a hard time recognizing it. That's right. It ensures that parties elected by at least three Member States will elect a representative of the Greeks from abroad as a minimum. Fourthly, it is stated that in order for Greeks abroad to be facilitated to vote, two conditions are set. I want to make it clear from the outset that these conditions, which have created some reactions from Greeks who have been missing for many years, but are still on the electoral lists, have not been made - I will say again - by the government majority. I am referring to the obligation to stay at least two years in Greece over the last thirty-five years and to be tax-based in the last or current year, unless they are less than thirty years old. They were preconditions set by other parties. It was a prerequisite for us to reach the consensus that we needed to go beyond the limit of two hundred Members. They were shot by the Communist Party and SYRIZA. That is why these restrictions exist today. Three parties, the Greek Solution, the Change Movement and the New Democracy did not consider them necessary. I want to be quite clear to those who are listening to us that these restrictions were the result of the necessary retreat that the government majority had to make in order to reach the number of two hundred Members of Parliament, so that this important reform could take place. The certification process will be simple. The foreign voter will be electronically entered in the respective electoral list, either by submitting the necessary documents or by allowing the public services to draw them from their own databases. With a simple document, that is to say, a certificate of study, a payment of contributions, a military severance office, the Greeks who live permanently outside the border will now be able to vote from their place of residence. Of course, everyone, I will say again, always retains the right to vote in the ballot in Greece. We're not talking about an additional right. We are talking about a facilitation in the exercise of the electoral right. I'll say it again. This quadrant was not the best solution. It was, however, the only realistic and directly applicable solution. Otherwise, the major would be subjected to the minor and instead of making one more important step, in my view, in the face of the decay, we would retreat two steps into the name of a leap we would never have done. In other words, we would not be able to vote on Greeks living permanently abroad, as was the case for almost half a century, and now we have a law, even with some discounts. All the generation of Brain Drain, all the young children who left Greece in the years of the crisis, automatically fall under the provisions of the law and many of the Greeks who left the country earlier and who have been resident for many years abroad will be able to make use of the right to vote from their permanent residence. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill can be signed as a democratic victory, since it substantially broadens the right to vote. Because you know very well that many foreign Greeks were unable to return to Greece, even if they wished. This exclusion from the opportunity to participate in the electoral process has also had a strong class mark. We must not forget that. Returning to Greece a weekend to exercise its electoral right is a fairly precise process and the main obstacle to many of our fellow citizens abroad was precisely the cost. So this goes beyond today. That's why it's a democratic victory. It substantially broadens the right to vote. It is a parliamentary success, a parliamentary victory, since it shows the common place of different perceptions. First of all, however, it is a national victory. It performs a debt that Greece had vis-à-vis its children. It reconnects the Greeks of the world to their national homes, gives them a reason for what is happening at home. It thus rekindles the interest in the homeland to older and younger generations, for our parents, our uncles who have stumbled there, but also for children, the nieces that either study abroad or left the years of the crisis. The importance of the vote of the Greeks abroad extends even further the national look, deepens national consciousness. Because it once again unites the Greeks of the world of many millions, thus increasing their power. And their old extrovert, which has always raised the country and washed its influence on the ends of the world. To use the words of the intellectual Stelios Ramfou: "We pass from the limited Greekism to the true Hellenism of the open horizons." Above all, at this delicate juncture, today's sitting of Parliament is a message of consensus, unity and determination, a message that we are few to be divided, which is why we choose not to be scattered. So global Hellenism is here and I invite you to prove it with your vote in a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u168	The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. I am sorry that at a meeting, which, as Mr Mitsotakis described before, he does not find the time to sit down and listen to the speech of the Chief of Anti-Population, despite the fact that he knows - and that is why he is speaking of a historic meeting - that we shall vote, at least in favour of the bill. Of course, I understand why I am in this position. It is not likely to do so. But it is a negative moment and I must point out it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the exercise of the right to vote, but also the right to stand as a candidate from the remote Greeks, an issue which has been pending for for forty-five years and not randomly pending. Mr Mitsotakis said "forty years the New Democracy has come". Did SYRIZA have been ruling over the past forty years and could this legislative initiative not take place? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Even until 2001, for twenty - seven years, a simple majority was needed to make the law of the state. He hadn't changed the constitution so he could want two-thirds of the MPs. Therefore, this matter was not accidentally pending. On a point which, of course, requires broad consensus from the Constitution, it is no coincidence that this consensus has never been found since post-Macedonia. Nor is it accidental that the way to resolve this issue opened when we came to governance by reviewing Article 54 of the Constitution, but also by creating a detailed proposal for a law for the first time in the history of the country. And, of course, it is no coincidence that today the vote on this legislative initiative by a large majority, with SYRIZA in the opposition, that is to say, a position where the parties of old two-partyism usually when they were here, used to say 'no' and, of course, on the issues that they disagreed - and rightly said 'no' - but also on the issues they probably agreed on. That is exactly how your government and Mr Mitsotakis as leader of the opposition since he was elected President of the New Democracy for three and a half years. And you did not just do so in the economy or in the matter that we are now inclined to resolve, the issue of bankruptcies, where I would remind you that you were the only party you voted against a year ago in favour of the proposal for a law which provided for the setting up of the Special Committee of Experts to bring forward a proposal for the vote on expatriation. All other parties voted in favour. But this attitude of universal denial while you were in the position of Officer Mitsotakis, particularly in the position of Chief of Staff, you chose it mainly on the periphery and on the crucial foreign policy issues. And because I think that moments are crucial in terms of Greek-Turkish relations and developments in our region, you will allow me to address this in particular. Because I was absent abroad, but I learned that the Prime Minister came to Parliament after his meeting with Erdogan and was personally attacked, because I criticised the government for the contradictions, for its embarrassment in managing the intensity of relations with Turkey, and because I hear you and I hear you constantly talk about populism, I would like to reassure you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and I will also speak to a personal tone and Mr Mitsotakis. Although he's not here, I think he'll hear my speech. I would like to reassure him not to worry and assure you all and especially the Greek people that in foreign policy matters I will not do what Mr Mitsotakis has done when he was the leader of the Officerial Vice-President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Of course we will criticise you, of course we will also highlight the failures, the arrhythmias, the contradictions. It is an obligation, I would say, our patriotic duty to do so. But what you have done, to divide the Greek people into an agreement that you now want not just to observe, but also to honour it, what you have done to transform our national issues into a central area of confrontation to unwritten votes, we will not do so. But Mr Mitsotakis also talks about populism, especially in national matters. Because we cannot forget that it was primarily based on mobilisation and aggregation of the audience on the right of his party in order to be elected. We cannot forget that, when the Turkish President came here on a first official visit after sixty-five years of Turkish President in Greece, the New Democracy then declared that we gave the Turkish President a step forward to expressing its revision when both the President of the Republic and I stood up to the occasion and answered, we did not chew our words in public. And, of course, we cannot forget when opposition officials, the New Democracy, were personally attacking me and my government every time we opened up a channel of communication with the neighboring country or some who came to the point - they are not today parliamentarians, but they are at peace with other state positions, the Treasury and Loan Fund than I have learned - and they rushed to say 'we trust Erdogan more than the Greek Prime Minister' on the issue of the eight officers, if I am not mistaken. And, of course, we cannot forget that it was Mr Mitsotakis who, without shame, publicly accused me of selling Macedonia to get the pension cut. So it goes very much today to ask us for populism, especially as far as national issues are concerned. I will not, however, follow this example, not only because it is an example to avoid, not only because it is the definition of populism and political hypocrisy, not just because it is detrimental to the place, but because this choice has short feet. I would say that it is self-destructive and very quickly you will find in front of you, if you have not already found it, the contradictions of your election rhetoric in relation to your post-elections. So here is the difference, if you like, between us. We won't continue on these tracks. We will have opposition with patriotic responsibility, with support where we agree and with constructive criticism where we disagree. And we are not going to silence, because you are now starting to confront, to "heat" the consequences of all this nationalist outrage, which you have soared in the past years and all this patriopathy. So I am now telling you clearly that we are supporting open channels policy. You did well to meet Mr. Erdogan. I tell you clearly that we support the relaunching of dialogue on confidence-building measures, which you agreed correctly and poorly, had been frozen for so many months. Fortunately, you have reached an agreement with the Minister of National Defence, and you have stopped these conflicting leaks, which have damaged the image of the country. I also tell you that we support the internationalisation of the issue of Turkey's illegal and invalid agreement with Libya. It is good and important that there have been statements of support from the European Union, the State Department and our partners. But let us be absolutely clear. The dangerous developments in the last few days should not have surprised you. Turkey's strategy is not lightning. I would say that it is the price of the success of our country in recent years, of upgrading its geopolitical role, especially with alliances in the Eastern Mediterranean, of alliances with Israel, Egypt, and of establishing strategic dialogue with the United States. It is the price of success, because we promoted the EastMed pipeline against possibly another pipeline that was going to Turkey, a project that changes the region's balances and the energy map of the region, and in particular the success of moving this project forward and with the support of the United States, after the creation of the "3 + 1". The escalation of unacceptable actions, of course, by Turkey in Libya and the Eastern Mediterranean, came after an unholy settlement with the United States in the Syrian and possibly Libya. Unfortunately, they come, and after the implementation of a completely mistaken, in our opinion, of a change in the Greek Government's strategy in the field of national issues in relation to the period of our own governance. I warned you in time that this change of strategy was a mistake, which the government representative clearly expressed, whether or not Mr Mitsotakis lied to me that day and did not have the honesty to acknowledge his mistake later. You applied the doctrine of the so-called fine line, as Mr Petsas said, which links the refugee with Greek-Turkish, Syrian and Eastern Mediterranean, and that was a mistake. A doctrine that neither the refugee helped, as shown by the vertical increase in flows, nor did it, of course, confront provocation. You may have been afraid to raise the tons because of the refugee. You may not have dared to force our partners, who are hesitant at this time, to open a new front to their already charged agenda with Turkey. Mr Mitsotakis met the Turkish President in the UN and was right to do so, but he must be the first of the few, if not the first Prime Minister, who did not raise the issue of infringements in the Aegean. Without the conditions being met, you have decided immediately after a Supreme Cooperation Council with Turkey. And when the mining took place outside the Cyprus Exclusive Economic Zone, Mr. Dendias, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, told us publicly in his interviews that Turkey damages its image, because that is where it finds only mud, as if it were this issue of Turkey, whether or not it will find mud and not if it will create a fait accompli. Most importantly, however, you refused to make use of both within the European Union and at political level the largest European weapon secured by Greek diplomacy in recent years, the framework of the sanctions adopted at the European Council meeting last June. Finally, following the meeting with the Turkish President, the Greek Prime Minister made at least an unfortunate statement, saying that both sides must show good will, while only a few hours before the meeting Turkey announced that it would go on drilling outside Crete, as if we were the ones who have not shown a good mood for so many years. All these years we have proposed to Turkey that we sit at the table to relaunch the exploratory talks. Since 2016, which has been the last on our own initiative, we have constantly asked Turkey for this and Turkey has refused it. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, not to attack you. That's not my mood. After all, you also noted at the meeting of the National Foreign Policy Council yesterday that our intention is to have a sluggish national front in dealing with tension with the neighbour. I say this, I repeat, because I feel it is my duty to point out them to you so that we can leave behind a strategy that is incomplete, the strategy which has been expressed through the statements of the Government representative and that the country returns as quickly as possible to the active strategy. I am obviously not going to ask the Prime Minister to talk to us about the'red line' in Greece. That will be said whenever he decides or, at any rate, I imagine he will discuss it with the political parties. What I am saying, however, since it did not consider appropriate to take my view before meeting with the Turkish President - and I say it publicly - is that the country must regain the thread of a truly active foreign policy, a policy of dynamic diplomatic initiatives, precisely so that we do not get to the need for dynamic military initiatives. You need to reconstruct clear lines and initiatives to tackle the upgraded practice of Turkey's illegal acts and claims. It will be very good to have European Union conclusions, stressing that legal results from the Libyan-Turkey Agreement are not produced. I am sorry to say that, but at such a critical moment, the statements are not enough. In December 2019, it is no longer enough to make European declarations of violation of international law. This was important in June 2019. It was important in March 2018 when we first secured clearly condemning European Union conclusions on Turkey. We are no longer in the field of declarations. We are in the process of sanctions and initiatives. And that is not an extreme approach, it is a realistic approach. Turkey has announced that it will not allow Greek ships in its agreement area with Libya. So either there will be European sanctions policy now, or the Greek frigates' policy then, when it is too late. And because, between the two, we suddenly prefer the first one, which is why it is incomprehensible for us because, instead of calling on Turkey to comply, you do not directly use the threat of European sanctions. So let me testify to the public debate, but from here on the Step by the National Representation, a set of six initiatives that we believe the government should take in the next period in order to prevent unpleasant developments. Firstly, you must ask for European sanctions to be applied immediately to persons and companies carrying out illegal activities in the Cypriot EEZ, and for their implementation. Secondly and above all, to ask for these sanctions to be extended to persons and companies likely to take illegal action within the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone in the area covered by the illegal Turkish- Libyan Agreement, and I am particularly pleased to hear that Mrs Gennimata is also in agreement with this position and we may have the opportunity to put it tomorrow at the European Socialist Party Summit. But that's not good enough. The question is what the government will do and what the government will take at the summit. Thirdly, you must clearly move to the United States in the light of Mr Mitsotakis' journey and in the light of the ratification of our revised defence cooperation agreement, that it must take concrete action, with the first and most importantly a new meeting of three plus one - together, Israel and Cyprus - to promote East Med, which is going through both the part of the Cyprus EEZ, where Turkey is mining, as well as the area outside Crete, which covers this illegal agreement. It is good that we have Israel with us, but the message from the United States must be clearly given that it will support East Med by the end, as the American Minister for Foreign Affairs stated in April. Fourthly, you must finally propose the convergence of the summit of the European countries of the South, our closest allies, which, of course, may not have defeated populism, as Mr Mitsotakis said after his meeting with the Italian Prime Minister, a little disgraceful for the other countries, but in any case they are the ones in Europe that can support us and at the same time open up a strategic debate with Russia, which has another and more important role in the region and especially Libya. And our relationships cannot stay in economic and cultural terms alone. They must also go to strategic issues. Fifthly, you must demand Greece's participation in the Berlin process for Libya, which started in September. We cannot stay out of the process, especially after the latest events, especially when Turkey is taking part in this process. Sixth and lastly, you must give a clear message that Turkey must end the attempt to create stones, but at the same time clearly the message that not only Greece does not leave the dialog table but urgently ask for the exploratory talks to be resumed, as we have consistently proposed since 2016, and of course the Cyprus talks on the basis agreed in Berlin which, thanks to our efforts, includes the Guterres framework, with the abolition of guarantees and the withdrawal of the occupied troops. This is what I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greek people expect from the government and from them, as well as any substantial initiative that is not limited to statements to know that you will not, however, have our support. With a sense of patriotic responsibility, we'll be here. We also had a corresponding attitude of responsibility on the issue of the vote of the Greeks. And I am coming back - and I thank you for your understanding, Mr President - on the subject of today's vote. I said that it was the government of SYRIZA that sought the structured, global and objective approach to the issue, without any back-up thinking about micro-party benefits. That is why we set up this cross-party committee with broad support, other than New Democracy, a committee composed of experts, persons of unknown prestige and the whole political spectrum. The Special Committee has come about in the same context as all the respective institutional bodies in the case of countries with a large number of impunities, such as Greece, in the so-called 'closed representation system', with a predetermined, closed number of seats corresponding to voters abroad. It is the model that adopts countries with significant dispersions, such as France, Italy and Portugal. It is the model that prejudges best practice, the National Committee on Human Rights and the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe. It is the model that meets the positions of the CSCE, the Council of Deputies of Hellenism. We have therefore come to the public debate from the standpoint of counter-population, bringing the proposal to which this committee concludes. SYRIZA, in other words, came into this conversation not by wearing the party shirt, but by the national colours. I think you need to make an account, because you have not opened this issue in all previous years and what you have done. And it's not too much of a review I'm going to make of you. You have always seen the deportees as a potential party tool, which is why we have not come to an end for forty years. Older people will remember, of course, chartered flights with the plastic flags and the free tickets they carried from abroad to vote on. But also when you decided to vote for the issue in 2009, your government's proposal at that time had found the great reaction of the whole opposition, because it was unconstitutional and insulting for the political system, but mainly for the migrant Greeks, our common homeland, where land you wanted to integrate into micro-party games. That was the view you had on the family, and that's what you still have. The party costume is your natural apparel to Greekism. If it were not for you, you would not choose as the State Secretary responsible for the issues of the democratic Hellenism, Mr. Diamandaris. Because you knew Mr. Diamiari very well, long before you made him a Undersecretary. You knew very well that not only did he have a degree, but also the history of the "NATIONAL KYRYKA" and he knew Mr.Mitsotakis himself that Mr Diameris had signed in his paper in 2017, on the occasion of the fifty years of the coup, in which he called the "most well-wanted" people for the country. And you knew very well that Mr Diamentaris has again described the American Ambassador to Athens as "Tsipras' NATIONAL KYRYKA". And he wrote in his article: "Don't the time has come for his transfer before he does even greater damage to the relations between the two peoples?" That's what Mr. Diagnossus said. Last April he wrote this to "NATIONAL KYRYKA", three months ago Mr. Mitsotakis made him a State Secretary. And he knew very well who he was. But Mr. Mitsotakis did not want State Secretary for the Greek state that unites, a party ruler of the family. Because if Mr. Father were to carry a thousand five hundred votes - so he said - in order to take up a post as a hospital commander, perhaps in the mind of Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Diaditaris would carry no more than a thousand five hundred votes, but many thousand votes of the family, and that is why he took the place of the State Secretary. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And that is why, despite the saliva of false excellence in his curriculum, Mr Mitsotakis did not dare to deprive him and the Government representative was talking about an issue that has expired. So Mr Diamandaris is, although he left, a typical example of how you see the emigrants and how your main desire was to turn them into something small and party-controlled. That is why you refused our proposal, which was, I repeat, the proposal of the Committee of Experts for a closed representation with a specific number of seats, which will go to the representatives of the family, a proposal which did not exclude anyone. Everyone would have the right to vote, and those who listen to us understand that. They understand those who are listening to us that you have made an entire campaign to create the feeling that you are opening up the voting option to them, but you are actually closing it now, because none of them have left from '85 onwards. But when you saw that the two Members of Parliament did not come up, you had to retreat and adopt as a basis for discussion the JRC's proposal, which actually reflects European legal culture and sets specific conditions for the exercise of the electoral right, such as the existence of a genuine link between the electorate and the country. I want to be clear. This proposal is not sufficient in our proposal. Not because it is our own proposal and I must support it, but because, on the one hand, it is our proposal that provided for an independent right to vote other than the electorate and, on the other hand, because our proposal was, as I have already said, the proposal adopted by all the national and international institutions. Nevertheless, we have come to the debate, assuming that a step has to be taken, we have to close an issue that remains unregulated for forty years and that we have to stand as political parties, as a political leadership worthy of the expectations of the deceit but also of the value that these people have as ambassadors to our country, our language, our culture, our potential in the global sphere. We have therefore identified, Minister, four main problems in the bill that you have brought, and we have proposed four corresponding solutions. In your honor, you accepted both, even partially. But there are still two other issues, top in our view, which should, even at the last minute, be understood by your Government. The first concerns the updating of the special electoral lists abroad. Preferring on the draft one-off listing and maintaining the same electoral lists for an eight-year period - you corrected it for decades - it does not guarantee for the future the existence of a genuine link between the voter and the country, that is, the real bond consisting of two-year stay in Greece within thirty-five years and the submission of a tax declaration in the same or the previous year. And I think our proposal solves the problem. Our proposal is that the special electoral lists should be updated, either annually or on a two-year basis. The second key issue is that the bill includes wide authorisations to the Minister of the Interior to regulate key issues, such as the process of listing and the way the elector is certified. But if these matters can be regulated by the Minister with ministerial decisions, then the requirement of the Constitution for approval by the two-thirds of the House is the same, which is why we propose, as a solution, that all the relevant ministerial decisions be adopted in agreement, not simple, as provided for in the bill, and only for some decisions by them, not all, with an agreement and with a majority of two-thirds of the Special Permanent Committee on Hellenism of the Diversity or the Intergroup. And to note, Minister, that the Scientific Service of the House also points out that there is a constitutional issue because of the extensive legislative authorisation you have provided. I would therefore ask you to take some steps to resolve these issues so that we can vote in favour of the bill, not only at first, but also in all articles. I think that would be a positive development. Ladies and gentlemen, our attitude to today's bill is precisely the attitude we had towards the emigrants in the four and a half years when we were in the governance of the country, a attitude of respect and honesty, which they too expect from the Greek state and at the same time from a modern state. It is precisely the same attitude that we have shown throughout our foreign policy, developing a responsible foreign policy that has brought fruit to European and international levels. It is precisely this policy that on critical national issues it has to observe a force of patriotic responsibility, whether it is in the government or in the opposition. And it is a attitude that, unfortunately, you have shown in the past three years that you have not been able to act as opposition, because as a party - let me say that - you suffer from a syndrome, the political Janus syndrome. On the one hand, you want to go out to Europe and enjoy respect for your European counterparts, not to treat you as Orban of the South, on the other hand, but on the other hand you carry the burdens of yourself, the extreme right-wing populist rhetoric with which you won the election: "Progression of the Ambassadors" in, "we will observe it and honour it" outside. "SYRIZA brings illegal immigrants" inside, "geopolitical and non-manageable" out. "The Right to Vote on All Protests" out, toys for election clienteles and ultimately to exclude the large majority of the voters from the election and elect him in. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proud that we have not followed or followed this practice, because the progressive and democratic party was, is, is and will always be, a patriotic responsibility force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after being informed of the history of the building and the way of organizing and operating the Parliament, and toured to the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-three students and students and four teachers from the 1st High School of Ierapetra Lassithi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] He has asked for the floor on behalf of the Government for a few minutes, as the Minister for the Interior, Mr Theodorikos, is entitled. Here, you have the floor. He has asked for the floor on behalf of the Government for a few minutes, as the Minister for the Interior, Mr Theodorikos, is entitled. Mr. Theodorikos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u171	Mr. President, the Chief of Staff has left. But I imagine he will hear the government's answer. I'm afraid SYRIZA's president and Chief of Staff Response has been confused with his position. The subject of today's debate was indeed a national issue. It was that of facilitating the vote of the Greeks abroad. Greek-Turkish relations were not the subject of today's debate. Let me tell you that on the day that the Chief of Staff of the Party has announced the intention of his party to vote for the bill for the vote of Greeks abroad on the day that the Greek Parliament with two hundred ninety-one votes will send out a message of national unity, consensus and understanding of the parties in order to bring about a great institutional cut that we owe to the Greeks of the entire entire century as a Greek state, on this day the Chief of Officerial Representation has chosen to politically attack our country's Prime Minister on our national issues. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I would therefore like to say to you, gentlemen, that you must harmonize yourself and do with your soul and your heart what is going to be done today in the Greek Parliament and the vote on the frustrations. As far as our national issues are concerned, particularly as regards developments in Greek-Turkish relations, the Prime Minister himself informed the Greek Parliament. Then, as I think the Chief of Staff Response is well aware, the National Foreign Policy Council, which has received detailed information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Treasury, has met behind closed doors. And as the Prime Minister has repeatedly said, the Chief of Police Representation has always been able - because the Prime Minister is open - to be informed of any matter he considers necessary. But I am not going to go far on this, because that is not my point either. I only did it to cover the substance of things. On the question of the law we are debating today and the arguments put forward by Mr Tsipras, he wondered why forty-five years the relevant regulation has not been passed and gave his interpretations. Personally, as a man who, for the first time during this term of office, is also in the Parliamentary and Ministerial seats, I note that SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras have ruled the country four years and have not solved the issue, while Mr Mitsotakis has solved it in four months. That's the reality. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The committee, to which the Chief of Staff Responsibility referred, was founded in its own governance, in its final conclusion, as I mentioned earlier in my speech, had a fundamental difference from the arrangements of this law. What's the difference? The difference is that it did not predict - on the contrary, it was against - the equal vote of Greeks abroad. It did not allow Greeks abroad to vote for the emergence of a government in our country and for the emergence of political correlations. Let us not pretend that this is a secondary issue, because this was the decisive red line that had been raised throughout this whole debate. It is also well known that for four years there has been a refusal by the previous government to discuss here in Parliament the proposal tabled by the Qualified Opposition and its Chief on this subject, on the bill of vote by the Greeks abroad. It never happened. Let me tell you one last thing. I believe that the Chief of Staff Response should be taken overall into account in his strategy and in the political course of the SYRIZA party, following the four-year governmental experience. The most important thing to do is to put an end to choices of lies and denial of truth and reality. And since I am claiming this, I would like to say quite clearly today that the party at which the Police Vice-President's party changed his behaviour and came to accept the view that the Greeks of foreigners will vote for the election of a government in Greece is the moment when it is clear from the positions of the Communist Party in the inter-group committee that there can be two hundred votes. At that time, SYRIZA decided not to be politically isolated. And he did very well. But that is the truth and reality. And it's good to admit it. And since we all have to admit it, I would like to say to you - because I have heard such a different issue again from what we are discussing today - on a matter with some old president placed in a provincial hospital. This is the great difference of the New Democracy Government by the SYRIZA Government: The New Democracy Government knows to immediately correct even these little mistakes, while SYRIZA continues to live in mistakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u172	Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to address the Minister for the Interior with three points. First of all, it is clear that the Minister did not understand the meaning of the speech of the Chief of Staff. But it is certain that the Greek people who have heard us understand. Because his message, Minister, was clear. We, as opposition, will not make the isotopic opposition that you have made in previous years, particularly in national matters, such as the Ambassadors' Agreement. On the contrary, today that the European Council, a critical European Council, has come here to present proposals and state that despite the criticism we have made in the past, as regards the inertia shown by the government and the surprise suffered by Turkey's aggression and the upgrading of this aggression, we are here just to send out the message of an arrogant national front. That is why it has also put forward concrete proposals for you. And we really hope that they will also be exploited by the Prime Minister tomorrow. And of course, what we are saying here at the National Representation plays a role, as you know in diplomacy, especially when the Opposition talks, in order to implement the sanctions, which have been delayed and also to extend the other points mentioned by the Chief of Police. As far as the bill is concerned, Minister, we have said it before, and the leader of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group said so. If we are discussing the bill here today and there is a wider consensus on finding - at last - a solution to this institutional lack of transparency in facilitating the vote on revenues is because the majority of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group in the proposed parliament was the one that proposed the revision of the Constitution - and it was adopted - to open Article 54. Otherwise, today, there would be no constitutional possibility and guarantees to ensure constitutional institutionalisation around the draft law and that there would be a wider consensus. And you know very well that SYRIZA came to the cross-party discussion at the Ministry of Interior in a very positive way. This was also reflected in the committee and in the speech today by the President of SYRIZA. What we have said to you - and I am closing with that, Mr President - is that most of the issues have been dealt with through your own efforts and the improvements you have made today and the effort of all the parties in the opposition. There are still two issues that are important to us. We are really asking you to do that, and Mr Tsipras has asked you to do so. The issue concerns the impreciseness and transparency of an unprecedented procedure to be applied for the first time. Minister, it is in your interest that you, too, should be able to respond at the last minute to a more regular update of the lists. Because, as the President of SYRIZA said, some of the regulatory powers must be covered by the intergroup. We believe that this is in your own interest. Because the first application of this unprecedented procedure will be critical. There must be no shadow. Let us be sure that the first implementation of a process that we all wholeheartedly want to support will be done in a fair and democratic manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, the point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u175	Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u176	I just wanted to say that things were happening unprecedentedly. Mr Varoufakis is led by a parliamentary group. And it is clear that no parliamentary representative, replacing its President, has the right to precede it. I know that, too, I've been here for five months. You - I imagine - everyone up there knows it better than I do. We protest strongly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u177	You're protesting very strongly, but I think it's also unfair. Because the Minister who spoke is entitled under the Rules of Procedure to take the floor whenever he is asked for five or three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u178	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u179	Immediately afterwards, because the Chief of the Opposition was missing - Mr. Theodorikos replied to Mr. Tsipras - on behalf of Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulos for three minutes and ended the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u180	This is our objection to the procedure that Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou should not answer. If it was Mr. Tsipras, then he had the right. But I did not turn the right at our reading of the Rules of Procedure to Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou. And don't take it personally, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou. We have an objection with the Bureau. It is not about you, it is about the management of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u181	Obviously. The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have had an excellent opportunity to correct a flagrant injustice against the Greek diaspora. Unfortunately, we didn't start well. The Chief of Officer's Antipopulation spoke for twenty minutes to defend the best gift he could make as Prime Minister to Mr Erdogan through his lycophilicity with Mr. Netanyahu and the dictator of Egypt. On the other hand, Mr Theodorikos, you are right about the conduct of the Chief of Staff, but your President, the Prime Minister, having made a proper call for unity from all of us, left without even hearing the Chief of Staff, nor to participate in the debate. We as a PART25 remain committed to this unique opportunity to correct the gross injustice against the Greek Dispersion. Greece is not Germany, France, Britain, the United States. Contrary to these countries, the heart of Greece is plundering in the diaspora. And it is so intense in the dispersal as it is also within the geographical territory of this state, which we have put up with nails and teeth, that we have defended ourselves. A state that we could not have set up or defended without the Dispersion. Perhaps the Greek heart, the Greek soul, will become even more intense in the diaspora than within the borders. The injustice we have to rectify therefore goes beyond the technical issues of facilitating the exercise of the electoral right. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about people who have persecuted at waves, often sold out, with the children of the crisis to be the last wave of cases. We speak of people who maintain relationships with worship and anger with homeland. We're talking about people - don't forget that, you might not know those who don't have a direct relationship with Greeks abroad, with emigrants - who when they get to the airport, many of us natives are mocking about their pronunciation. Some people are taking advantage of them. We're talking about people we remember them as a Greek state only when we need them. People who are despising them as a state systematically and consistently in practice, and are exposing them to the words and every year on 25 March. We are talking about people whose accession to the electoral process is not - once again I shall say it - a technical, legal issue. It concerns their longing for our homeland, our sins as a state, the hugging of a large part of our souls, who are plundering abroad. That is why when the New Democracy, the Prime Minister, went personally to Astoria and promised them access to polls, voting, we in Mera25 did not see it in micro-groups. You will remember perhaps from our first meetings in this plenary session in the context of the debate on your programme statements, we in Mera25 did not count on beans, but we were successful. We have seen the performance of the right - the facilitation if you wish - of the vote of immigrants, of those who are impoverished as an opportunity to give justice. We have seen it as an opportunity to strengthen our parliamentary systems. We have immediately tabled a proposal for a law to create electoral districts abroad, so that the Greeks in Australia, the Greeks will send their elected representatives and sit here among us. This would be a power both for us and for Greekism outside the borders. In other words, we should actually give them the right to vote and to stand as a candidate. The next day, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, public dialogue has been poisoned. We, the Mera25 that we first tabled in this Chamber on the proposal for electoral regions, were smashed into social media, television. We have been attacked with sad vulgarity. We heard them say: 'And what are you to vote on to those who do not live here and who do not pay tax here, and they will come to tell us what to do?' An unbearable cowardice gave rise to dangerous arguments. Anyone who does not want to be attributed, to make political rights easier for the dispersal, for the migrants, say so clearly. Say it, we're like Denmark. You know, Danish citizens once they become permanent residents in Sweden, in Australia they lose the right to vote and to stand as elected. And the plane to get to Copenhagen, they don't vote. That is how Members decided after a clear debate in the Danish parliament. There is something different in Britain. Every five to seventeen months - it depends - the electoral lists are renewed. And if you're not a permanent resident in your area, you lose your right to vote. Anyone who wants to dare, asks for the removal of electoral rights from emigrants, should do so. But do not you dare hide - as you are hiding too many of you - ladies and gentlemen, behind acrobatics. We in Mera25 have come to hear from circles of supposed left-wing arguments in favour of interconnecting vote with taxation! In other words, they have no problem with a shipowner - who has a villa in Castella or Ekalis that is offshore and pays nothing because he is a resident of London - to vote in Kastella, in Akali. But they have a problem with Melbourne's sidekick who is struggling and cutting for the homeland. The Members who say that, the people who say it, do not understand that they open up an ace of Halos? The next step you do not understand that it will be the argument or the question, "Why should a homeless man vote, who does not make a statement to the tax office?" It is a fundamental violation of the principles of the Left that we have seen in recent weeks, in recent months, counting the electoral losses and judging the granting of certain electoral rights accordingly. I would like to remind you that there was a formal Left with beginnings in the early 1950s, the Single Democratic Left. When the question of women's voting was then raised, despite the fact that it was clear that the majority of the generals would not vote for the SAD but conservative parties, the Single Democratic Left took the lead in women's rights and in the right to vote. That's why there's the Mera25 today to remind me of some such issues. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, you have found them. You married the destiny with empathy toward the emigrants, to end up in hypocrisy and in malnutrition. And then Mera25, the party that enthusiastically embraced the initiative to vote on the emigrants, today we will be the only party that will vote against for the first time. Why are we going to vote against? Allow me a few very specific examples, a reference to people who breathe, hope, long for and expect something from you and us here today from Parliament. They're specific people with names. The first one is George Bizos. She's ninety-one years old. He was born in 1928 near Methoni. Fourteen years of age he and his father, who had helped some English soldiers, and with a boat he ended up in Alexandria and from there in South Africa where he suffered, went against racism, studied lawyers and became Nelson Mandela's lawyer. Later, after the release of Nelson Mandela, George Bizos wrote the South African Constitution. Well, ladies and gentlemen, George Bizos, according to your law that is being passed today, will not be able to vote in Johannesburg. Georgia Papadopoulou, seventy-six, born in 1943. In 1960 he went to Philadelphia, United States as a bride. There he did children, made grandchildren, who are struggling to keep them as close as possible to Greece by living, breathing, day-to-day Georgia Papadopoulou itself at home. According to your law Georgia Papadopoulou will not be able to vote in Philadelphia. Mari Velonaki fifty-two years old, born in 1967, daughter of a diplomatic official. She finished her primary school here and then following her father, her family lived where her father went to the embassy in Nicosia, Paris, Switzerland. She finished her studies in Switzerland at art school. Today Marie Velonaki is one of the first professors of social robotics at the University of New South Wales in Australia, honors Greece, brings robotics to Japan, San Francisco, Africa. Where it goes, it is a symbol of what the Greeks can achieve. According to your law, Marie Velonaki will not be able to vote at her place of residence in Sydney. Nikos Papastergiadis, fifty-eight years old, born in 1961, my congressman, second generation Greek. He went to Manchester University and Cambridge University. For decades he has been a professor of contemporary art at the University of Melbourne and a critic of art. From Korea, Switzerland, Sweden to the United States and Canada Nikos Papastergiadis is known as one of the most important art critics in the world. Where she goes she's carrying Greece with him, she's her ambassador. Nikos Papastergiadis will not be able to vote according to your law in Melbourne. Christos Machinehalidis. He's sixty-seven years old. In 1972 as a student of the Higher Commercial at that time, hunted by the junta, he went to Sweden where he finished his studies, set up his life, has two daughters. His contact with the Greek cultural and political events is continuous. Although Christos and his daughters are voting in Stockholm in the European elections, and indeed in a cross, according to your law they will not vote in the national elections. The fifth person I won't name is abstract. It could be any student, researcher, any child of debt-government Greece, Greece of the memoranda living in any country of the European Union. This representative person of hundreds of thousands of fellow citizens who voted on 26 May in European elections with a cross-reference, according to your law, Minister, will not be able to vote with a cross representative or with a cross here in Parliament. Only party leader will be able to vote for his or the party leader's choices in the prevailing vote. And don't tell me that you were broadening the dominance ballot to justify the unjustified. I referred to two people before, Marie Velonaki and Nikos Papastergiadis. The two of them set up the Mera25 voting list in the previous elections. We did not need your law to incorporate immigrants into our sovereign ballot. What did your law offer them? What did he offer and what does he offer? It offers only one thing: the insult. It says in remote jewellery, such as Mari, Nikos, the great fighter of South Africa George Bizos, "we will make more room for the rule ballot that the party leader will of course identify, but we will not give you the right to vote in your places of residence contrary to others". It would never be possible, Minister, to vote in favour of such an insulting law, such a party of principle. In the discussions we have had, which were very friendly, pleasant and I think we agree much more than we disagree on a personal level at least, you have asked me a question. I do not remember if you put it in the following words, but disprove me if his meaning is not what I am going to say. Is the greatest enemy of evil? Why don't we give the emigrants something? Isn't that better than nothing? No, ladies and gentlemen. Not only do we give this law something worthwhile, but we get a lot of important and important and not just the migrants. The law introduces major threats, dangerous demons for basic democratic conquests of the citizens who live here, on Greek territory. Of course, I am referring to your criteria for the two-year stay in the country. It is unbelievable that you return to the spirit with the help of the JRC of the 1848 Prussian principle which interconnected access to the polls with the tax declaration. It is even more unbelievable that this idea came from the well-known wing of the House. It is extremely worrying that even the decommissioning army, which excludes women or shares against women, is interconnected in terms of safeguarding the two-year period. Do you realize what you are doing, ladies and gentlemen? First you've been to a consulate in Australia, Washington? Have you ever been to the embassy to see how few employees are struggling with a mountain of paper and bureaucracy? Will you get them to look at the evidence, the E9 and the primary or high school graduations to decide whether someone's going to sign up? Would it not be easier to have electoral lists and electoral districts and to vote in these regions? Do you realize what you're doing when you introduce these criteria to guarantee two years? I said before, but now I will say it again more strongly if you enter it, as you will do, today, with two hundred and ninety-one votes, the criterion of the tax declaration, why not ask Greece why not vote for the non-tax statement, the homeless, the offender? Someone else's gonna say why the haystack is voting. And you know very well that in Apartheid, Rhodesia, and other countries, a way to exclude the majority from the right to vote and to stand as a candidate was through educational text understanding tests, etc. Why would the man who didn't do his military service from the moment you asked for the military dismissal as a two-year-old document? Our democracy gets into adventures with this law. No criterion other than nationality can be introduced to determine the access of a Greek national to the polls. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the truth. Do you want to incorporate the results or not? The problem is, you don't dare. You dare either accept the proposal of Mera25 for electoral regions in proportion to the number of citizens carrying their electoral rights in Australia, America, Italy, etc. or abolish the electoral rights of all permanent residents outside Greece as Denmark and the United Kingdom do, as I have said before. We are clearly in favour of the vote on the motions for resolutions. You in your medium-sized law, the way you have found yourself in satisfying both men and women, and admit them you insult the migrants and insult basic principles of equalisation of vote. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me close on personal grounds. My daughter was born and grew up in Australia. In one year it will have the right to exercise its electoral right in the district of Athens. Through my personal experience I am very well aware of the anxiety of the distant parents, grandparents, grandparents, and grandparents to make our children love Greece, feel the warm, open embrace of the country. I've been telling my daughter for a while, "You know what? In 2020 you will have the right to vote." Why? Because the political right also creates a psychological, cultural link with the country that gives it. Until tonight, Xenia knew that whoever is a Greek citizen, but it happens not to be in Greece, cannot vote in national elections. So he felt the same way with you, with me that would happen on election day, not to be in the country. From tomorrow this won't apply because she, her mother, her grandmother, won't have the right to some with E9 evidence. It won't apply to Big George Bizo, the fighter in South Africa. In other words, we do not give them anything, we take much more than we are entitled to from the migrants, while importing demons within the Greek political process and demons which only undermine and undermine democratic conquests can offer us. Your facility will not apply to the majority of the emigrants, Minister. And yet for those who will not give them an equal vote, they will not be able to send Members who choose with a cross. Tonight, in the name of facilitating the vote on the motions for resolutions, bitteren the emigrants by introducing threats to our conquests. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Mera25 undertakes to fight to defend the democratic conquests of those who live here and finally to honour the expectation of the migrants for their genuine integration into the electoral process. In this good democratic struggle, we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to make a statement to this House: the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Support programme for credit institutions'. Now I will give the floor to Mr. Ypsilante from New Democracy and immediately after that Mr. Konstantopoulos follows from the Change Movement. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is true that at the last hour following the speeches of the House it came to my mind - not only to me, I believe, but to all the Greek people - in the sad summer of 2015 when two people were in the hands of the Parliament - almost throwing the country down on the rocks and when today, on the day that we should look seriously and maturely at the unfamiliar Hellenism, each one for his own reason changes the issue to confuse situations. In Greece, however, their positions and policy and their course are now known. I am returning, ladies and gentlemen, to my point, since we have heard a great deal of it all this time in order to confuse the Greek citizens, and to speak of a commitment by this government to a fundamental, deep-sighted national, which is to facilitate the vote, to the exercise of the electoral right of Greeks abroad. Of course it is the final framework from the original clear and bold proposal of the New Democracy, which adopted the letter of vote and what the Greeks of abroad have really sought, but this draft law will ultimately be a first positive step in this process. The adoption by the New Democracy of the way to national understanding and the pursuit of yet another self-evident piece of legislation on the revitalization and modernisation of our country is the responsible response to the forces of hypocrisy and inertia which, with poetic and verbalistic and only patriotism, legalism and wisdom, sought their non-implementation. So, for the historical truth, I would remind you that what had happened in 2009, when it was again sought by the New Democracy to vote for a similar law and the hundred and fifty-nine votes to the three hundred were not enough to establish it and that it was necessary three times in April 2016, 2017 and 2018 to table a proposal for a law by Kyriakos Mitsotakis, New Democracy to finally move SYRIZA, the Government and today's Civic Opposition to the establishment of a committee to examine the issue. So, today, we dare to take another cut and this is clearly heard to the Greek people, following the constitutional requirement of Article 51, according to which the two-thirds majority of all Members of Parliament are required, seeking to vote for an implementing law in this constitutional provision to facilitate the exercise of the electoral right of Greeks abroad, by ensuring transparency and validity in the whole process, as reflected in the new sixth paragraph of Article 2 of the bill and, of course, an independent right to be elected for our fellow citizens of the diaspora, since Article 32 provides that three of the fifteen MPs of each party will come from the Greeks of the diaspora that will be registered on the special electoral lists abroad. Also, the choice of the self-determination vote after rejection of the Qualified Opposition of the letter of vote shall be accompanied by provisions facilitating the exercise of the right as close as possible to their place of residence at a lower financial burden and suffering. Finally, with the legislative improvement of Article 16 and the definition that the opening of the files and the sorting of the lists shall take place as soon as the vote is completed in accordance with electoral law, any risk of the electorate being affected shall be avoided while the voting takes place within the territory. And an important note, in my view, is that of the forty-five Member States of the Council of Europe only eight, including Greece to date, had not regulated the facilitation of the vote of foreign nationals. It is Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Malta, Montenegro and San Marino. Fortunately, our country left this list. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally receive messages of satisfaction from my fellow Dodecaneses who live and work abroad. This satisfaction of universal Hellenism even comes at a historical and national critical juncture. Today, the plenary should have sent out - and I think it was sent out from several in here - a strong message of national unity and unity and a spirit of understanding of the Greeks. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, I declare that I am voting in favour of this bill, the draft in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u185	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement and immediately afterwards Mr. Akiupis from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, issues relating to our national conscience, our national identity and defence issues, as the foreign policy and the constitutional right of electorate for all Greeks, whether within or outside Greece, are issues which should be promoted and decided unanimously. There are no classifications and party crowns, as well as divisive concepts. I therefore welcome the parties' attitude to the right to vote from the Greek Parliament, a position which is a democratic victory for parliamentaryism. Ladies and gentlemen, for some time now the idea has matured in society and in the parties, in all of us, that we should finally be able to vote on the Greeks abroad. Although we are late, the crew of time came and while there are responsibilities on both sides, it is important that today's vote is decided on by the Greek Democratic Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the constitutional background existed since the 1975 Constitution, Article 51(4). I would remind you that in the institutional improvements brought about by PASOK in 2001, a framework was established in order to register institutionally the vote of the frustrations. The electoral lists were abolished, the polls were created and the dilemma was introduced. This resulted in the vote of the revenues being guaranteed by a common law, of course, provided that this law would be passed by two hundred MPs. None of them, however, ever since, has brought this law to the parliament, has brought this bill to a vote and become a law of the state. And, of course, here there are responsibilities on both sides, and I say this about history, to remind all the supporters of the diaspora that the democratic party has always been on the institutional side of the institutionalisation of the votes of the off-terrestrial Greeks. The wise people here, of course, respond "good slowly rather than never". We therefore welcome you in our position and in the opposition and in the coup d'état. We finally succeeded after twenty years of consensualization that the Greekism of the Diaspora maintains close ties with the country and that it must have a real and practical view of the things of the country. Personally, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Greeks have a special role to play in the international environment. Since the creation of the modern Greek state, Hellenism outside the borders, I would remind you, was the main man for all those who were within the borders. I would remind you of the economicly strong and interlinked Greek colonies that supported the country in the difficult circumstances, and I would also like to say that I would like to mention history and the Greek culture, with an informal advisory role, many times, in the structure of power. I mention all this because some want to go to Greek society that this legislative initiative concerns the five hundred thousand young people who left with Brain Drain abroad. It is also an answer to them, with respect to this generation, to give this generation, creating the infrastructure and the environment needed to come back. Besides, do not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that this generation is going to change the country. Let me say here that this generation needs a modern working and family life environment, a modern environment to turn back, to create and make their own families. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Change Movement - PASOK in irrigation for the vote of the deceased is shaped in four axes. The first axis relates to the vote in every Greek outside the country that is written in the polls and wishes to vote. The aim is to have the greatest possible participation, that is, without restrictions, which has not been accepted by all parties. Second axis, update of the entry of Greeks abroad in polling. Third axis, schizophrenic vote. At a time when everything is digitised, when we will still have an electronic vote in the near future, we do not accept the letter vote. The conclusions of yours. Fourthly, the vote of the revenues should be counted against the overall national electoral result, and this is for reasons of equality and universality and their representation in the House should be made through a distinct category. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we are taking a historic step today, a step which has to do with matters which have had to be solved for decades, where other mature democracies have solved them. It's time to solve them, too. That's why we need to show compassion and harmony. Today we are honored with our attitude and our vote on all the Greeks of the Diaspora, we honor the compatriots who were outside the country, I would say outside our country. We give them the right today and they can co-decide on their country. We honor the living ambassadors of our culture, our history and our modern concern. I'm just hanging up with a thought. Today we are entering our national Parliament to the Greeks on the ground, sending them a message to strengthen the ties of the Greeks. However, we also need to send another national message to the neighbouring country, Turkey. After all, ladies and gentlemen, the neighbouring country, Turkey, this is the one we know very well. It doesn't change. That's what we're going with. No violation of international law, no violation of international sea law, no retreat to our sovereign rights. As far as we are concerned, we should be a national political front here, for a national line that will serve the national strategy for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u187	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Vecchi has the floor from New Democracy for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again it is demonstrated that the government with determination and a sense of responsibility towards the Greek people is moving forward and doing all its election commitments. The facilitation of the exercise of the electoral right of the Greeks and Greeks was both an election issue and a post-election priority for the government and not an unjust one, since this issue, especially today, is a matter of paramount importance. Besides, the foundation and safeguarding of the right to vote of Greeks abroad is directly related to both the quality of our democratic culture and to ensuring its integrity. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to stress the importance of this legislation today, which, by making our accounts, is to see that the years of the crisis have cost us a great deal, but above all it has cost us youth and mind. The numbers of young people who have migrated abroad for economic reasons are truly impressive, young people with houses and properties in Greece, educated in their overwhelming majority, who took their way abroad because their country did not provide them with incentives to stay and make their lives. For these people it is incalculable for them to have a say in their country's political life. This is because most of them have very close ties with the Greek one, since most of them have not chosen, but have had to leave and so they have recently left and in the hope that they will come back. At the same time as ensuring their participation in the electoral process, even the most determined to remain abroad, a serious incentive to maintain a relationship with a country asking their opinion, counts them on its potential and ultimately wants him back. It should therefore be a major objective for our country, as if not achieved, it will have a direct impact on its production process and employment. So today the vote of the Greeks abroad is a more timely and even more critical issue than ever. So the government in this bill does the self-evident thing to do to restore an injustice that lasted for decades and which the SYRIZA Government took care to perpetuate and, indeed, dishonestly, on the one hand, since it emphasized its importance and, on the other hand, buried it deeply, because it did not bear the political cost of the agreement to recognise the right of Greeks abroad. The foundation and safeguarding of the right of Greeks to vote abroad is also of great importance to the Greeks who have remained abroad for decades. After all, they are communities that are mostly honoring Greek culture with its customs and traditions and, in fact, with a sense of responsibility towards our heritage. So these people have very close ties with our country and it would be rather wishing to have the opportunity to have a say in the country's political scene, which will always be their country. Even today, however, gentlemen, when the current government's initiative brought the matter back to the heart of the parliamentary speech, you only had problems and limitations to bring about, even if the vast majority of Greeks abroad were dissatisfied. It was also in the government's intention to open the dialogue on the letter vote. However, it was clear that this approach would not have the required majority, so that we would be at risk of getting back to point zero. I am sure, however, that starting with today's bill opens the way for further expansion of the right to participate in the political life of our country's compatriots living abroad. After all, our country cannot continue to be the dark exception to the European Charter, when the majority of the Member States of the Union have done so, because of all the Member States of the European Union, only two are those states which do not have the right to vote for their non-national citizens, with Greece belonging to this minority. It is important, of course, to stress that the right of Greeks abroad to participate in the electoral process was guaranteed both in the 1975 Constitution and in the 2001 constitution. It is, however, an empty letter to date, since it has not been implemented by our political system, which has led to a lack of convergence of views on its individual implementing arrangements. I would like to stress here that the New Democracy had repeatedly tabled proposals for laws and bills in the past, seeking the basis for this right of the Greeks abroad. However, these, mainly because of the negative attitude of counter-population, were not able to extract the necessary majorities. Ladies and gentlemen, the fulfilment of the constitutional requirement is an institutional and technically mature demand and is an obligation for our state to meet an important category of Greek citizens, which has even increased sharply in recent years because of the economic crisis. The step taken today is a step forward and I dare say that the facilitation of the right to vote reflects the government's overall development policy, which is ready to provide every kind of incentive, not only to stop our country bleeding young and productive people, but also to encourage those who have left to return to their homes, their families, their homes. Only then will we rebuild a Greece with a significant and estimated presence on the international territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u189	Me too, Mr. Comrade. I shall now give the floor to the State Secretary, Mr Livianio, and immediately thereafter to Mr Goka. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Madam President. I'll surprise you. I will start a little backwards, from the second part of the bill, which was hidden in front of the central question that was the vote of the non-Greek voters. I want for two minutes to speed up two - three important changes which are very important for the electoral process. The first is that we are moving towards a digitisation of the candidate procedure. Anyone who has dealt with the election knows that on the eve of the elections, a few days ago, tons of paper are being moved in order to testify to the parties in the first instance and secondly, in a second year, the party was coming in and compiling combinations throughout the country. That's what's changing now. The parties, but also any individual candidate who wants to enter an electronic portal and submit the candidacy without nearly having to submit any supporting documents, because they will be sought on their own initiative. The second important thing is that we are moving forward quickly in the election result. We believe that this is something that has been atypically implemented already since 2009 in the elections. We believe that, with the universal application of the electronic transmission of the election result, around 10 o'clock at night, we will have the final result from all the polling centres and around midnight we will also have the crosses of the candidates. This is also very important for informing citizens in particular. Of course, the jurisdiction of the courts remains and is fully effective. I will now go to the second part which is the central issue and is the vote of the non-Greek voters. I think that the legislative initiative, the bill we are debating today, has been wronged in four points. Before I mention the points, I feel the need, although I am not obliged, to "apologise" - on introductory grounds - for Constantine Stefanopoulou, for George Gennamas, for Alekos Papadopoulos, for Sotiris Kouvelas, for Giannis Kefaliannis, for Costas Scandalidis, for the Interior Ministers who are charged, because forty-five years they did not bring a bill to Parliament. The answer I think is relatively simple. By 2007, all the electoral systems in the country made it relatively impossible to hold a vote outside the country. We should be setting up infinite ballots in every polling station. Technically the opportunity was given after 2004, with the law of Scandalidis, and with the adaptation by Prokopi Pavlopoulos we have reached the current electoral system, where we can only, with the result of the territory, make the distribution of seats. By 2004 it was practically impossible. And I say it no of the current position I hold. I say this because it has happened and I have studied the electoral systems for many years. It was impossible to have any vote outside the dominance. And until 2001 he did not want an increased majority. And that's why it didn't go ahead. The legislative initiative on four points has therefore been wronged: The first point was who they voted on. Various numbers have been heard and different serotypes have been used. Some people were talking about a vote of relatives. Some people were talking about voting outside Greece. Some people were talking about emigrants. Some people used to say various serotypes. The reality is that the right to vote today, such as electoral lists, is specific. They have it today that we are talking about nine million nine hundred thousand people. These are all Greek citizens who are registered on the electoral lists, over seventeen years old. Nor is there another country outside the border, nor is there a single five million. There are now nine million 10 million registered. Since the 2001 census, Greek citizens who are over seventeen and live in Greece - the number has probably changed because it has been nine years but the size class is almost the same. So the real difference is a million hundred thousand. But here's another one. 2001 census: Greek citizens over seventy years, a million five hundred thousand. The electoral list is two million four hundred thousand. There are nine hundred thousand people over seventy years of age who are not registered in Greece. And obviously, they're not all foreign residents. They are problems mainly from foreigners who have died and have not been informed about the main electoral lists, and they must reach a hundred and fifteen years, so they are out automatically. So the numbers are completely different and they are very important because they were raised mainly by the Communist Party of Greece, a subject which is similar but which is different, which is the Code of Citizenship. There is another talk about the Code of Nationality and another talk about who has the right. In fact, our Constitution is clear. We can only set an age limit on this right in this respect. There was also the criminal conviction, he left with the recent amendment of the Criminal Code. Therefore, the only real limit that exists is the age limit. That's the only limit. The second point that the legislative initiative has been wronged is how we vote. So there was a talk in the previous committee under Mr Poulakis, which lasted 15 minutes. It has not been extended, you want also the participants to one point to have the reservations and representations from various problems in the vote, particularly in the pre-declaration era. However, the debate on the letter vote was fifteen minutes. For them to choose to go, it would take more time for them. So serious talk about the letter vote has not been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u191	But he had a consensus.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u192	He had a consensus, yeah. I don't oppose that. I'm just telling you, there was no talk. And because the issue was raised about the letter vote, and Mr Tsipras and the Communist Party of Greece put it, and they used Germany's example of the age limits - which they rightly used, and if I were them, I would use it - they did not say that one in four Germans voted by letter. Are they less sensitive democratic? Do they have less interest in politics? Less afraid of fraud? Incidentally, it is very important to include someone in the election list of foreigners. It will be electronic, everything that we can ask ourselves for from the public registers. We will not force the voters to collect their own papers, to go to testify in person at the consulates. By the way, this is a proposal from SYRIZA which was heard in committee and I was shocked because it is completely in another philosophy. We make the e-mail application, we put the papers, and what do we tell the voter? Take the papers and take them to the consulate. We call him a con man, who will change them, it will change them. When we have abolished the certificates under the Ministry of Administrative Reform of Kyriakos Mitsotakis since 2013 in Greece. And what do we say? No, go over there. Do you know what the result was? We saw it in the European elections, 15 000 were written. Yes, some voted for the inhabited countries. Fifteen thousand Greek citizens were written to vote from abroad. And how many did they vote? Twelve thousand. Why? Because they had to go to the consulate once to submit the papers and go for the second time to vote. I do not think that anyone living in Edinburgh is easy to go to London twice in twenty-five or thirty days on a working day to vote. By the way, because I listened with caution and the proposals of Mera25, they are perverse to the letter vote. Respectful. I disagree, but respectful. At the same time it says that those who are missing - if I have understood it correctly - will vote from abroad for the constituency that is written in Greece for nine years. I'm sorry, but except for the letter vote, it's no other way. It's not practically possible. Or I'll go to the consulate in London and set up 59 polls for Achaea, for Achaea, for Larissa and Magnesia, and I'll shoot each one. Both of them can't be together. Third point of misunderstanding, what they vote on. If we wanted to vote on the candidate Member who wants to vote in the constituency that is registered, there is one way. Only the letter vote. There's no other way. There's practically no other way. So that is why we are forced to go to a ranking list, where we now have three candidates from fifteen foreign lists, one of which is one in the first three, which mathematically draws at least three MPs from abroad to the next Parliament. Why do we do one and not two State? Another question that was raised. The answer I think is relatively simple. If we made two states at risk, parties taking around 5% -6% were at risk, not electing a Member of the State either on a list of the interior or on the other of the interior, which would be extremely unfair. If, for example, I say the Communist Party of Greece, which is at these percentages, would not be able to make its seat, because the electoral measure inside would be high, even on the inside, and if for some reason it did not have a good foreign service, it would not even be released from abroad. Fourthly, if the vote is calculated. We have consumed something which was manifestly constitutional, and the Pullakis Commission itself says so clearly. Change the Constitution so that what we're talking about can be implemented. They don't say anything else. They said they'd vote. Ten are, twenty, fifty, 100, two hundred, five hundred, three million votes abroad, up to twelve seats. But that's what they count. All the rest of the two hundred ninety seats, the rest of the three hundred. This is manifestly unconstitutional and we all knew it and it is no coincidence that the two constitutionalists voted in committee. They said yes to politicians, because political scientists - I am a political scientist class - are good at cooking and spoon, but the constitutional issue actually stands there. The two prescribers said that this was not the case. We had this absurdity. The voter, who would vote in London for the twelve seats, if he took the plane and came to Greece in the polling station that was written, would vote for all seats. That was the real problem of equality of vote. Because the problem of equal voting for the bonus that was also set has been judged by decisions of the Supreme Special Court and has been judged definitively. Bonus is compatible with the Constitution within the framework of the law that governs it, but double voting is not constitutional. In conclusion, I think it is important that all parties cooperated in this bill, the goodwill shown by all parties. I don't blame the Mera25. I think it is a good step, it is a first step and I think that the next House with real elements, with real registered voters, will be called upon to review and take a step further. It is in the hands of the next House and, if you wish, it is also in the hands of the citizens who will appreciate the legislative initiative and judge them accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Gokas from the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today faced with the fulfilment of the deferred national obligation for the participation of Greece, Greece all over the world in the national electoral process. The sense of the right to vote for the citizens of a nation and its exercise is a lasting global issue, which is why the Venice Commission points out in its conclusions that the vote of the deceased maintains their ties with their country of origin and strengthens their sense of belonging to a people, to a nation. The time-consuming ties of the Hellenism of the Diaspora with the mother homeland are given and strong. The voice and soul of democratic Hellenism strongly supports our Greece in national issues on the international stage, with whatever potential it has that is very important. Today, at a critical stage of our national issues, strengthening the fate of the family, of all those who have their roots and maintain their ties with Greece, is an important factor for our national initiatives and actions at all levels. I would like here to make a special reference to my special homeland of Arta and say this: in the summer, usually in Arta, as well as throughout the continent, the climate that prevails, and to the cafes that are filled with migrant Greeks and their friends, it is that these people actually live for Greece. The same breath, the same climate, as I am being transported to Greek cafes or to groups all year round to the place where they live and work, outside Greece, all these fellow citizens. All these people want, not only to vote, but most of them want to go home. In any case, the reference or invoking of practices of other countries or international organisations around the issues of expression of the will of peoples and nations cannot ignore the juncture, which has led us hundreds of thousands of Greeks, especially young people, in recent years abroad. The debate must therefore take place by adapting our options to the Greek national reality. All this intense reality, despite emotional burden, is realizing the main issue. In other words, the full representation of Hellenism in the political life of our country and let some people try to exclude as many as possible. The blockades limited the supposed alteration of the election result, as some have seen. But can Greek residents be treated in this way? And at this point I would like to repeat - it was heard by other speakers from our group - that the PASOK has opened the way since 2001 with the Constitutional Review, taking the first step towards expressing the Greekism of the Diaspora by its vote, with anticipation of the letter of vote, and that the Minister also made a reference to Costas Scandalidis also to the law and the predictions he contained and help with the development of this issue. Today, we will have to retreat for the sake of consensus, which we have been talking about for ten years. Some other nipples find out. We therefore need to lead to a solution without a letter of vote and with many other restrictive conditions relating to various other documents and bureaucracy, which are difficult to find, such as tragedies, VAT and other tax elements. But when technology today ensures that three billion worldwide is handled every day, can we be afraid of the inconsistency of the vote on the revenues, especially by written vote? Some have operated under political purposes, such as SYRIZA's Civic Opposition that the vote did not want to count on the national outcome or the New Democracy that did not define clear and distinct representation. We fought for both. For representation and in order to count on the national outcome, on the basis of the principle of equalisation. For us, the conditions were simple and specific. Insert in the electoral lists, update of the electoral lists, schizophrenic voting by imprecise procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, we must, on the basis of openness and not of hypocrisy, which has even been expressed here in this Chamber today, reduce the restrictions on the part of the electorate concerning Greek from the Greek Democratic Republic and ensure that the exercise of the electoral right is facilitated, by insisting today, even at the very last moment, that we adopt the dialectical vote, even though we have accepted a well-determined solution from the non-resolution. Because our democratic progressive prolongation, with PASOK and the Change Movement, has never been a political force, a nationalist or nationalist. He has always been deeply patriotic and responsible, having a look at all of Hellenism. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I am hoping that what has not been completed today will be done as soon as possible. I believe that all of us should, even those who have so far been committed to settlements or micro-group projects and objectives, then help to complete this national obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u195	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Vardakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Madam President. The Minister for the Interior was buried just now, because the President of SYRIZA mentioned the Turkish provocation. She said she wasn't here. Really? They're probably scratching wounds. We do not have the time to place ourselves on the Turkish challenge. After all, our President has said so before. One question I would like to ask: why should these actions be taken or have to be done, as Mrs Gennamas and others have said, such as talks, the Court of Justice of The Hague, the AEZ, demarcations, not so many years ago? We, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, are with you, as long as you finally take the lead, to see how together we will maintain, ensure, the sovereign rights of our country. Historical meeting, they said almost today. Emblematic bill, others said, and the Prime Minister dedicated only sixteen minutes. Even the predicted 20 minutes didn't cover. He convinced us all at sixteen about what to vote today. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you now appear as an honourer of a democratic process, of the vote on the frustrations. At the same time, it is you who, not only for decades, have not regulated the subject, but you have made an effort in this direction. The question of the regulation of the vote of Greeks abroad has been a constitutional requirement since 1975, although it has not been regulated until now. The truth is that none of the two parties that ruled until 2015 did really try to solve the problem. This is because a precondition, in order to approach and solve a very important national issue, such as the vote on fraud, is to deal with it in terms of honesty. Only SYRIZA, as a government, sought to resolve with seriousness and consensus the issue of the vote of the deceased through concrete proposals within the framework of constitutional review for the safeguarding of the assets and the passive electoral right of the deceased, proposing a vote to all Greeks abroad and an autonomous right to elect their representatives. The President-in-Office must finally have a voice. They must enjoy the right to 'election' and 'elected', but on the basis of democratic principles and European experience. We agreed to participate in a dialogue, and this is what we are trying to do to reach agreement, seeking convergences, although we considered that our own proposal was much better in terms of serving the two main political and constitutional objectives: to facilitate the right of "election" to all Greek citizens, to all Greek voters abroad and, furthermore, an independent right to "election" of their representatives. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] However, from the outset, we have set certain conditions for our final attitude. The draft law proposed by the New Democracy, the current government, did not fulfil these conditions, to the principles that we have already set for more than a month. As the law was, it did not give sufficient protection to the active and passive right of Greeks abroad and created many concerns about how to apply it in terms of transparency, security, law and non-confidence of the election result. Some of the proposals we have made have been accepted and that is clearly positive, I would say. In any case, it can be seen that the changes that are still being proposed today, at the last minute by the government, bring us closer to giving a vote. But, Mr President, let me say that we will insist on and insist that the members of parliament have a vote, a vote and a right to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Vardakis. I thought you wanted more time. You've warned me underneath that you want a lot of time. Mr. Amanatidis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, I will take the time that has elapsed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting is historic and, of course, following the position of our political leaders, I think the value now exists is that Members' views should be put forward and that is how they should be recorded in history. We went because we ruled this country for four and a half years, seeing the Desert as an important part of our nation's history, part of our national identity, achievements and international image, with the aim of strengthening the relationships between the Diaspora and our mother, strengthening our country's national brand name abroad, trying to reconstruct the country from the crisis and the memorials, at the same time exercising a consensus policy, which appeared both at the meetings of the Special Permanent Committee of the Diaspora and, of course, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I shall present to the end of my speech, and of course it is well known in the House, how this committee worked with another colleague who was president, so that he could even put into the targets the same. Ladies and gentlemen, we can see the Greeks abroad in the eyes. And we can see them in the eyes, because we have approached the solution of this problem with responsibility and sensitivity, as we always face the bills concerning the democratic expression of the will of Greek citizens and the collective decisions on the small and large issues of our lives. Finally to stop some of the opinions on SYRIZA's real will. Our essential will was expressed in the committee, in which the Secretary-General finally made a reference. For a month and a half, I ask the Minister of Interior to make public and to submit to Members the official findings of the committee of inquiry by Mr Haritsis and Mr Poulakis, who were intergroup. I want to mention the names for the story. It is Nikos Alvizatou, Professor of Constitutional Law, Georgia Valatsou, Director General of Economic Management, Spyridon Vlachopoulou and Democrat Dodos, Professors of Law and Political Sciences, Michael Red, Director General of Electronic Governance, Danai Coltsidas, political scientist, Baltsiotis, Special Secretary, Ilias Nikolakopoulos Professor of Election Sociology, Theodoros Economou, Director General of Electronic Governance, Michael Tsapongas, Co-rapporteur of the Citizen and Dimitris Christopoulos, Professor of Comparative Policy. I am pleased that the Secretary-General felt the need to respond to this, because the committee did not actually restrict themselves to voting because there is the right to citizenship. But what did he say? He had a compromise so that the members of parliament had their own Members. Now I'm afraid and I have two fears for this bill, for how it works. Because, as you know, Minister, the bills are not only judged when they are passed, judged in practice. I have this fear. The parties are at the moment who decide who will be in their voting list and who will be in the election position, and the proposal that we fellow citizens themselves made in a single ballot, with elections - and here the Change Movement should tell us, because it changed its position in relation to the constituencies - would take off their own MPs, who would crucifix them. Now they don't cross anything. My second fear is that many small parties will not be able to reach the emigrants. These were the two reasons, Minister, and you know that very well, that the Pulaki Committee puts in and says why there is a fear of the electorate being altered. Why didn't that happen for so many years? I will give you the political answer: because the political parties that ruled this country - not only the electoral laws, if they wanted to, would change them - feared the vote of the Greek people abroad, because the reasons that sent them away from the Greeks were specific, social and political. They'd blame them and they knew that. So I think that for social and political reasons they did not give the right. You know when it would be worth, Minister, talking about national unity, etc.Huh? If there were no constitutional provision for two hundred votes and you would come as a New Democracy and say: "But we want national understanding and we will do everything." You don't do that. You're necessarily doing it. You believe the need for esteem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end. The second thing I want to say, ladies and gentlemen, is in relation to the equality of vote which has not been heard. Your sensitivity at the vote rate to show it at the same time as the Greeks' vote in the interior, by not adopting sprinkling schemes that bonuses give and you are against the simple analogy, which you said you would fight. What is your sensitivity to the equivalency of the people of the interior? What did the Greeks want abroad? They all wanted to vote. Second, they wanted the letter vote. Third, they wanted theirs alone. The proposals of our own have given us these two things, and this must be known to the migrants. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this is where the political gain must be made first of all by Greece. I think that's it. This bill must not be seen by any party as a swimming pool for the policies they carried out in the previous period. If they see it that way, do not think that such a bill is enough for young people to forget the act of a ministerial council with which you reduce their wages. Is that enough for young people to forget the hit on relationship work? How will these young people come back if they don't stop your policies? Finally, Mr President, I would like to make a proposal to the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u199	But you've reached seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u200	Mr. President, I'm sorry. The Dispersion Museum, the Council of Hellenism, must be made, ladies and gentlemen. And the third, the Hellenic Foundation for Culture, which will strengthen the links with the dispersion, should come to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs so that we can do business.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President. We can look the Greeks in the eye and trust us in stopping the politicians who kicked them out. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Athanasios Nassos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, I was going to cancel my speech because this is not a House of Members, but then I regret a second time, because today something I cannot swallow it. At the same time as we tell the Greeks abroad "near and voted", at the same time we are sending out more new Greeks from Greece. I will try, ladies and gentlemen, to prove it. What's the purpose of this bill? Useful, elementary, limited, but useful. But he lacks the main purpose in a country that is bleeding populations, the purpose of increasing our population with Greeks who are really interested in Greece. If I could, I would delay this bill a few months, to combine it with other initiatives in the context of a large campaign to reconnect the Greeks between the diffusion and their motherhood. Only two examples, directly applicable. The example of this is for the expatriates who have been missing decades from Greece. If the banks made an advertising campaign entitled "Home in Greece", and they themselves would benefit and many of the expatriates would respond to advertising. I'll clarify, if they want home, not necessarily. The association of civil rights and property ownership was already banned in 1822 in Epidaurus' temporary property. But don't every relative aim to have a home in Greece? What kind of politicians are we and what kind of homosexuals are those who would not want a house in Greece for vacation? It is necessary to create a strong link between the Greek diaspora and its homeland, a link not spiritual or emotional, there are but a link of tangible material. Being Greek ten minutes every four years is not a solution. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you don't have such policies. You spoke of hearts about the thousands of Greeks who left Greece in the years of the crisis that you caused. Now bring this bill without surrounding it with those actions that would prove you care about Greeks abroad. Queen Sofia 23, next door, is the Portuguese Embassy. You should go get that advertising diploma. What's he writing? 'Return' programme, 'REGRESSAR'. "The time has come for me to return to my home." Those expatriated Portugueses who decide to do so will see their taxes - listen - halve over the next five years. They will also take cash to move. What is yours "REGRESSAR"? You are not interested in expatriated people, you are interested in micro-party vote through expatriated people. For Poland to bring its own back - a greater problem than we have - it abolished the tax on two million workers last July. Hold the number, or we'll compare it to a Greek. All Polish workers under the age of twenty-six who earn less than $22,500 a year will not pay 18% income tax in the country. Again, what is yours "REGRESSAR"? Again voting, again rosphetology, with a lot of communication, of course, to hide it. Mr. Theodorikos here is doing a great job. The day before yesterday, you announced a programme, not for two million, for five hundred people, a pilot project. So you're the ones looking for while the others are applying. And what is the minimum reward under this programme for five hundred people, who will ultimately be thirty-three? Three thousand euros and you're subsidising it by 70% from the Greek state. This is where the madness starts. Two employees with the same qualifications and the same studies will be paid differently. But the salary for the new scientist coming from Brussels or Sofia is great, while for the one who comes from Lavrio or Koropi he is small. Three thousand euros the public subsidisation wage for the workers of thirty-two years, nine hundred euros the wage for the workers of forty-two years with the same qualifications. We will see what the courts will decide for the two-speed workers. Do you want to repatriate your own children? The calls have already begun in the political offices. But that's not how young people come back. That's how more and more leave. Do you understand why? Roosetti. 58% of the Greeks who left state to ICAP that the primary cause of their departure is the lack of democracy and corruption in Greece. So it's worthy. I will conclude with a question to the Prime Minister, based on the outcome of ICAP's investigation, the merits of democracy. If, Prime Minister, I offer you a homogeneous Oscar holder or a Golden Phoenix, will you offer him the vice presidentship of the National Theatre, removing it from your mother-in-law's sister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u205	Mr Seedakis Maximos from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the central political objectives of the New Democracy Government is the return of the Greeks who left Greece during the crisis. It is an ambitious objective concerning the future of our country and, in particular, for me to be the same generation with many of the children who have left it, it is a personal political bet. Our most ambitious aim is to repatriate and reconnect the Greeks of the Diaper, to convince all migrants that the mother is open and ready to welcome them back, that we want them back, that Greece is turning into a modern European state, a rule of law that can satisfy their demands, a state that can treat the citizens with respect, such as most modern states. These two central political objectives have led us to the need to seek wider political consensus on the issue of facilitating the electoral right of non-Greek voters. The first reason was purely practical, since the Constitution requires an increased majority of two-thirds of the members of parliament to apply the law. The second main reason was purely national. The opportunity shouldn't have been lost. Because we consider it incomprehensible in the year 2020 that we cannot as a state, as a political system, agree in a way that will enable Greeks abroad to exercise their right to vote. And we're talking about people on the electoral lists. If they take the plane and come to Greece, they can vote. And why do we think it's incomprehensible? Because the message we send to these people is that we've forgotten them, that we don't care if they keep their ties with their homeland, that we don't care if they come back. So the Greek state is not meant to send such a message. We are obliged to do everything politically possible to resolve a matter that has been of concern to us for decades. Of course, the agreement of the four plus one points reached by the Minister for the Interior meets our main objective, but not entirely. The first reason is because there have been several restrictions. The conditions for exercising their right to vote from the place of residence we consider that they could have been avoided. But we are sure that the Greeks from abroad will receive the message, they will overcome the limitations, they will come to the polls and, in their vote, they will prove that they remain close to us in every way. Thus, they will legalize the next House to amend the bill and lift some of the conditions for their registration in the special catalogues abroad. The second and most important reason why we are not entirely satisfied with the agreement is that the right is restricted to voting for the State vote, even though this is extended from twelve to fifteen seats and not for the vote on their constituency. This could be done in practical terms by means of the letter of vote, which was the government's original proposal. Otherwise, we should set up, as we said, fifty-nine ballots in every election centre. The second is impossible. The first one didn't want the antipopulation parties. So we've come up with this compromise. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are taking a step forward. And I feel great joy as a Member of the national Parliament more than a majority MEP just when we were all taking this step together. I cannot imagine - I imagine all the colleagues who are voting for the bill - that we would not do so, that we would not manage to stand up to the circumstances, that we would not be able to send the Greeks all over the world the message that Greece is changing. Because I imagine that we all want Greece to leave misery, introverty and crisis behind and to become a normal modern state, a state similar to what Greeks abroad chose as a temporary place of residence, a state that wants them to return and co-formulate the new beginning for us and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Sedetakis, for the time. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor, Mr Pafilis, who asked us to put the time of dentistry and tritology, that is, six minutes and three minutes. Mr. Paphie, you have the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u208	I may not need them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u209	I wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u210	The Secretary-General of our Party, Dimitris Koutsoubas, our rapporteur, Yiannis Giokas and Yiannis Delis spoke fully and presented the position of the JRC on this matter. We want to say from the outset that the Communist Party of Greece has been very responsible for this big problem, which none of the governments wanted and did not have to deal with all the previous years, despite the fact that we insisted that a solution should be given to the issue of fraud. He also participated in the intergroup and, more generally, in the discussions was creative. And we consider, without praising ourselves, that it has made a decisive contribution to the coming of this draft law to be passed, from what it seems today. We didn't think of micro-partners. We have moved - and we always move, regardless of whether some agree or disagree - from positions of principle. And that also seemed from the result. I would like to make a second comment. Lower the love for those who have been uprooted. Who ripped them out, not just now? What is the cause of immigration? Is she Pssop? Because that was the theory, which the Communist Party of Greece rejected before the war. Oh, no. It was the policy of all the governments that served the interests of capital and they are serving today, which forced Greek workers to leave to look for a better life or rather to live, in the final analysis. And when we talk about immigration, about how many thousands of dishes have the Greek immigrants washed and how have they lived in the big friends? There were fifteen and twenty in a room. It has happened what is happening today with their other immigrants over the past few years. How did they get paid? What discrimination were there? In Germany, for example, they said "it is forbidden to enter dogs and Greeks". All we say is that people can hear and see who is responsible for this disgusting thing that is happening - and it is not objective in history - which is called immigration and refugee. So that's why a little lower. Do you have the nerve to talk about those who have been unraveled in the last ten years? But who implemented this policy? Shall I say it? First memorial to PASOK. A second memorial to the PASOK with the New Democracy. Third memorial to SYRIZA with everyone else. That didn't kick the young people out more than half a million? And today, we all come out of honors, like we're going to suffer amnesia in this place. Well, lower it. And these logical criteria to come and this theory I heard before about ours and your children have no basis. Why would they come here? With what cuts to come? With what wages to come? And there's going to be some people here with what you're subsidising. The others who live here? Will they live with the EUR 600 and the EUR 700 with two and three postgraduate degrees? So let this hypocrisy stop. I would like to reply on behalf of the JRC to what Mr Varoufakis said, who is an amazing driver. It pulls a flash to the left and passes through the extreme right. He tried with a phrase that was supposedly progressive to dress extreme right-wing views with arguments that literally borrowed from extreme right-wing concepts. And we'll prove what's behind it. What did Mr. Varoufakis say? He argued that everyone, everyone. On what criterion? Based on the law of blood. So he was your great-grandfather's grandfather or grandparents' grandparents, you have nothing to do with Greece and yet you will have the right to vote. That's what he told us. He will shortly tell us to vote for American citizens who are philhellene with a responsible statement 'I am a philhellene'. I say it ironically, but someone's getting out of their clothes. In the end, in other words, it tells us that they will be able - and this is a reality - to determine which government will come out of anyone who is of Greek origin. Is that too much? How many are estimated to be Greek immigrants? More than five million are appreciated. Imagine it. And he tells us, then, that this is the right thing to do. They will vote, in other words, who have no consequence of the policy they choose from the party they choose from the government. Although we say here - to be clearer - that we have no illusion of how the vote is formed and under what conditions, what pressures, under which extortion, etc. However, we say that anyone who has nothing to do with the country will vote will have nothing to do with it, nothing to do with mental ties. Of course, we believe that there is too many mental ties, the overwhelming majority, because the overwhelming majority are workers and are not rich states, nor are they the ones who became the great and the transonents. Yeah, they do, they love Greece. But what does that mean if they have no effect on the policy to be implemented? So there will be no criteria, will it be free? And we're telling you that simpler and simpler. Will the various lobbys and foreign governments - to say it openly - be able to define the results specifically in marginal situations? Yes or no? Think about it. They won't be able to mobilise 100,000 and 200,000 who will vote for the ar or the b party? And be careful, because sometimes anyone who digs each other's pit falls in. So what have we set? We have set a number of criteria. And Mr Varoufakis consciously and provocatively - and we understand why and I will say this below - made us an immoral attack, without fundamental arguments. It distorts our positions. She doesn't know them? What do we say? For example, it tells us that we are putting tax obligations in place. We're not putting up. And that's not all we put in. We're setting other criteria. What's our point of view? Proof that he has some ties with the country. And throughout the debate that took place in the intergroup, we didn't find any more. There had to be a safeguard, to prove that they have real ties and not just mentally with the country. Is that a mistake? I say this about the New Democracy - which, of course, retreated - and SYRIZA. Or is it right? When the other guy has no effect, how will he be able to vote and make a government? So we said that the person who votes to have even some effect on taxation in HISHA. - Where is Mr. Varoufakis who would abolish him and make him permanent when he was Minister? - for education, for health. When his children or none of them have anything to do with the country, how will he decide on a government that has - not that this is what they are all about and that they decide on this criterion, but we say - the political or political one? How will he be voting, that is to say, 'the account to others'? And you know, Mr. Varoufakis flatters the emigrants, but he doesn't ask the locals, see what people will say. And he'll just tell you: "From where, man, I'm gonna pay the bride and the other guy from New Jersey and California, Sydney and elsewhere he's gonna make a government here? Will he pay anything? Will he suffer anything?" Is that absurd? I say this for the New Democracy too, which of course we have reached an agreement, but it insists on the reasons we know. So we cannot accept - and it is not right - the mental bond alone and the right of blood. And he blames us for putting these criteria back to Prussia time. What's he defending? The law of blood, which is pre-feudal, reactionary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Why all this? There's a question. She doesn't know? This cream, of course, reminded me of the so-called Hellenism of Golden Dawn. Because you know, Greeks aren't all the same. To speak historically, not to go to the recent. And Pelion Wouss was Greek. And the Nightmare was Greek. I don't want to talk about battalions. They were Greek too. They're not the same, they're not the same. There is a class division both inside and in the emigrants. Others are workers, others are small - sized, planting or even making a better life, and others are rich people who exploit everyone else. And because we are talking about Greece and Greece, Mr Varoufakis does not know that the Greek origin of senators "do the duck" - can I just say it - on national issues within the American senate? Tell us when did they come out for Greece? What do they say? The policy of the United States of America, yes or no? Let me give you an example. When Duke and Bush were nominated, Greek lobbies and shipowners supported Bush. Why did they support him? Because they took the 6th fleet refuelling, to tell you just like that. And here there's no right to blood, not even that. There's a fair money thing to do where it's good for them. So they're not all the same. And the selective report he made to some who actually offered to Greece did it to hide those he claims, that behind his positions he hides the lobbys and great interests - he knows them very well, he lived them - which they can direct and shape even the election results in Greece. We, as we say, mean it, ladies and gentlemen, and you know it very well, whether you agree or not. And we mean it and we do it and we proved it here. We do not serve the interests of big capital and its policies, which Mr Varoufakis is trying to dress with progressive cloak. We have principles, and we are not the kind of people in politics like others.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr. Palphie. Mr Avramakis Eleftherios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to say from the Step that at some point in this country we must make the revolution of self-evident and rational. To be more specific, I will say that our political system must show maturity and the political forces are responsible for sitting at the dialog table and at some point move on to those necessary and necessary compositions, which will lead to broad consensus on a number of issues such as defence, foreign policy, education and health. Of course, when we say consent, we mean it in practice rather than in words. Here I will say that we, SYRIZA, as a responsible political force, served it in practice. And just yesterday at the National Foreign Policy Council and today in the draft bill we are practically showing our consent and our national identity on a number of issues. Today we are called upon to discuss and approve the government's proposal and the way in which the Greeks who live outside Greece are involved in the electoral procedures of the country. The request for Greeks to vote abroad is a request for many years, but it was never satisfied either by New Democracy or by PASOK. The first essential effort to facilitate Greek foreigners to participate in the Greek elections was made by the SYRIZA government, without micro-party practices, with the establishment of a scientific committee, which resulted in a very specific proposal. SYRIZA's proposal to create a closed system of participation by all Greeks abroad, which would lead to the representation of the family without party controversy and without dividing Hellenism, was not accepted for reasons that the Government of New Democracy has not explained to us and has not presented to us. The original proposal by the New Democracy - which, fortunately, is not raised in the debate - poses significant risks to the unity of Hellenism in general. It could cause serious irreversibility to exercise the responsibility for governance, without practically agreeing to the Greek people's agreement, which is directly influenced by government policy being pursued. The New Democracy, even lately, perceived this risk and practically adopted the proposal of counter-population and, in particular, the JRC, which basically has its starting point in depreciating this risk, which would inevitably create social conflicts. The proposal that eventually comes for discussion following the reactions of Officer Response is clearly more secure. It's an improvement, of course. It ensures, however, to a large extent that the participants will even have relative contact with the reality in Greece and ensure that the representatives of the Greeks abroad are also represented in the House. Despite the distortions created by the government's final proposal, it is clearly better than its original, sloppy and obviously dangerous initial position. In this sense, an important step is being taken towards the participation of Greeks abroad in our national elections. This even retarded welfare of participation, of course, is not enough in itself to strengthen the ties of the democratic Hellenism with Greece. Other provisions are needed, such as the support of Greek schools, the strengthening of Greek language and history courses, the implementation of actions and the taking of initiatives to prove to the respondent Greeks that there is a country that cares about them. In any case, today there is one step to keep Greeks in touch with Greece and at least the younger generations of immigrants who have been forced or chose to leave the country because of the economic crisis and the social consequences that it has caused. They are mainly Greek citizens who have already had the right to vote in Greece, who are aware of the real situation of Greek society and many of them are keen to return to a country that will not deprive them of dignity. They will undoubtedly not reduce the abstention rate in the latest electoral procedures, since it is difficult and particularly expensive for a Greek abroad to come to Greece just to vote. However, the request from the Greek community is partially met. By voting for this bill some and only some people are satisfied and not the unscrupulous Greeks who could have the right to vote. The proposal that SYRIZA had drawn up with the distinct representation of Greeks abroad in the Greek Parliament would have offered the right to vote to all the Greeks who would wish it without artificial separations. It would allow these citizens' voices to be translated into Greece and, above all, it would not have caused the separation of the Greek-democratic on the basis of party disputes. This democratic proposal, unfortunately, cannot be accepted by the ruling party, which reminds us at every opportunity that it considers it incomprehensible that there should be a parliament which will not be fully identified by legislative and executive powers. In any case, it is a positive development, and even under certain excessive conditions, that these Greeks of the diaspora can participate as many as possible in national elections. It is also good that this issue does not ultimately become a field of harsh confrontation since there is a common will of all the political forces and that those moves which make it easier for Greeks abroad to participate on this basis should be made. In conclusion, I would like once again to point out that Turkey's risk is real and we need more than ever an active foreign policy. We do not need the statements of support, the verbal convictions and the final provision of space and time to question our sovereign rights in practice. Greece cannot stand appallingly against the aggression of Turkey nor can illegal activities be tolerated either on the Greek continental continent, the Greek islands and the Greek EEZ, or on the Cypriot EEZ, on plot 7 or other plots as described by the Republic of Cyprus. The government must take substantial initiatives. Yesterday it was shown that the political system is aware of the risks and the whole of the opposition parties are moving despite the individual disagreements or criticisms in the same direction. The Greek people must be informed and we must make proper use of any diplomatic means that can save an accident and at the same time defend our sovereign rights in full. The fact that the New Democracy initially underestimated Turkey's expansionist policy is a point of criticism. However, this is not the time to serve as a political controversy. The data have now been changed, and we need to make full use of the results and potential created by Greece's multi-dimensional foreign policy on Alexis Tsipras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Liakos Evangelos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day for the Greek Parliament, but also for the whole of Hellenism at the end of the earth because today the Greeks can be more united and stronger. With today's bill, there is a first step towards finally hearing the constant request by our compatriots who live off the ground to participate in the national elections, but also in the formation of the country's political scene. It is a request which, although it is constitutionally guaranteed since 1975, has taken decades to overcome any political controversy and to see the matter maturely and with a sense of responsibility. Of course we must recognise that this is a universal demand for society, but also for the era as the spread of the Greeks has increased considerably over the last decade. So why should Greece remain in the sad minority of countries that do not have the right to vote for outside citizens when we all recognise that the return of all those who have left in recent years is more than necessary? So we want them back as productive workers while at the same time not recognising them the right as active citizens? To lead to the final version of today's bill, the truth is that compromises were required in the altar of which the epic vote was sacrificed, which disappointed several of our fellow citizens and perhaps several of us. Because the letter of vote would not only be a genuinely fragmented section, but would also enable the relatives to vote for representatives from the constituencies of their origin. The position of the New Democracy was that the most appropriate way of participating the expatriates in the vote for the parliamentary elections is to cast a dilemma. It is a method used by all the civilised democratic countries in the world. But in order to avoid another opportunity, in my view, consensus has fortunately won. The vote on this final proposal represents a major step towards the strengthening of global Hellenism. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with caution to all the suggestions made by colleagues in the Com mittee on Representation and, frankly, I have not been able to identify a single strong argument in order not to vote in favour of today's bill. Most of the colleagues in their contributions and today's speeches have referred beyond all others to the much-discussed generation of Brain Drain, namely all those Greeks who left the country during the period of crisis in search of work and better living conditions. Civic Opposition did not occur throughout the debate of the bill, accused us of unhappiness. So, today I would like to ask you: How many of you have children who are now permanently staying abroad, your friends' children, relatives, acquaintances and your own friends? I'm sure a lot of people are. As I am sure interest in the country remains alive in full. If we want, then, to speak frankly, we should admit that no matter what negative attributes we have as a nation, love and concern for the homeland always remain unstoppable. Why else can I justify the interest of my friends, classmates and colleagues who are living and working abroad today and who have not been one day when some of them are not asking me or interested in what is going on in the country? I would like to dedicate to all these people today. To George, Alice, Christina, we keep talking and dreaming about their return to a better Greece. If, therefore, we do not only need them on occasion and for communications reasons, we must make them participa­tion in order to keep them effectively close to us. Today we may not envision the impossibility, but we do something grander, make the self-evident. At a time when national consensus requires, I cannot imagine any better development than the unanimous vote of today's bill. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the challenges and threats that Greece has been facing over the last period require that political unanimity takes precedence over national unity. Only then will a clear and strong message of unity be sent in all directions. Because as he has said, and I am closing with that, Mr President, George Seferis - fifty-six years ago - at the Nobel Literature award ceremony, "in this world that each one of us increasingly needs everyone else. We must seek the man wherever he is." I'll add we have to look for the Greek wherever he is. Thank you very much, and I hope everyone will vote consciously.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Filippos's speech is now on the table in New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Greeks can only be united. This is a choice between the Greeks and our Prime Minister. A few days after the change in Article 54 of the Constitution, the government also brings the relevant bill. This bill is the product of wider convergences, which have existed since the consultations of the Ministry of Interior, as well as at the initiative of our Prime Minister for meeting with the other political leaders. This bill actually comes to fulfil a request for years, not only of the Greek impoverished, but of the entire Greek society. It is currently almost every Greek family, as with the mass fleeing Greeks, in the last few years, most Greek families have at least one member living abroad. But it was always about Greek society, as the Greek nation had a dynamic presence outside Greece, but without these Greeks turning their backs to the country. Greeks lived and lived in both Germany and Africa and Australia and America, but kept and maintain strong ties with the country, without it being easy to have reason for its course. So we make it easier for the Greeks abroad to vote at their home. Because of the constitutionally anticipated consensus, there are significant restrictions. It is therefore our duty to support the deportees with projects and to make them partakers in the country's recovery. Many governments have discussed this, but the New Democracy Government is doing so. We are doing so in the hope of reaching the necessary cross-party consensus required by the Constitution for every electoral law to be passed by at least two hundred Members. In fact, the bill brings an incision to the Greek electoral reality, as it unblocks the notion of electoral reality and the notion of the electorate by the condition of residence in Greece and of course releases the electoral process from the need for natural presence in Greece. The Greek citizenship also concerns those who no longer live in Greece. Of course it will not be enough for a voter to have Greek citizenship simply. A small, but symbolic, restriction is being put in place. So who? The whole requirement for a voter to have stayed for at least two years in Greece. The important thing, then, is that the electoral process is not limited to cities with Greek consulate or with some embassy, as it is a prerequisite for an election section outside the Greek border to gather at least forty voters. The electoral process can be selected in consultation with the local authorities. This means that the number of Greek voters is determined in which cities elections will take place and not the typical event of the seat of a consulate or embassy. This, of course, gives the opportunity and opportunity to even more to take part. With this bill, therefore, the composition of the electorate is changing. The change in composition may also contribute to a change in the data of the election campaign, as the parties will now take into account the picture that their own policies and their general presence will have abroad. The impact of their policies on the international chess board and on the country's international dynamics will have a significant impact, as it will inevitably be a criterion of vote for Greeks abroad. In any case, the bill is part of the functioning of our democracy. This government dares to take another step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u217	Mr Katsafandos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we come to heal, we come to restore an injustice and a moral obligation of the Greek state against Hellenism, to the Greeks of the diaspora who supported, honored and tried to promote the principles and values of both Orthodoxy and Hellenism. The government, after a lot of discussion and a lot of discussions with the opposition parties, but also with social partners in the first five months of the country's governance by Kyriakos Mitsotakis, brings this bill, because we thought it was within the first priorities that the Greek state should do to restore this relationship that it had over time with the Hellenism of the diaspora. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been sitting here watching this debate since the morning and I have been watching a competition. They compete with the opposition parties who would have brought it, who would have done it better, who had planned it, who had implemented it. We heard the former Prime Minister here accusing us of the fact that in the four and a half years that was in power seven months before we were brought to elections and after the pressures of all the opposition parties then, what came from here and suggested the Vima? That he'll start and make a commission see how the Greeks of the diaspora vote. While what have we come and done, ladies and gentlemen, in five months' time? Withdrawal from the brave, from the bold proposal we had so that we could cover all the lengths and backs of Greek immigrants, we have backed up and - unfortunately, I am sorry to say it - we are bringing an axed proposal, but this proposal is the beginning. You know, at some point we should realize that the beginning is half of everything. We are starting today and giving the right - not everyone, not those we would like - through this national initiative that we have taken. And this shows that we are not doing this with a micro-political purpose, which unfortunately I see many parties in this Parliament are trying to exploit, this national effort to enable the Greeks to have an external vote, to be able to reconnect with their homeland. As well as We are talking about the Greeks abroad and the Greeks of the diaspora, have we understood, ladies and gentlemen, over time, what the whole world has offered homeland? I am not talking about the struggles they have made and the support to enable us to incorporate into the national trunk areas of Greek and to enable our country to take the geographical form it has today. Can we talk about the cultural area? Can we talk about the arts? Can we talk about the letters? Can we talk about the Olympic Games? George Averov was the one who contributed to the Panathinaikos Stadium in 1896 and to the Olympic Games. It is Evangelos Zappas who built the Zappeio Megaros to be able to host all these activities, but also many others and even today in our constituencies. I see from Kytheras, for example, where there is a very large settlement of Chirigomenes, who are in Australia, the offerings they make and how they stand together and who stand sick by the Greek state, in the Greek state, so that they can create better conditions at their place of origin and bring the whole of the local society to fruition. We must show our gratitude, our support and make them partakers and societies, not only in this difficult economic situation that the country is experiencing, but above all, at this national juncture. We must show that we are not just the ten million Greeks. There are too many millions of Greeks who are outside Greece, but who are together with Greece, feel Greek, are Greek and will be our best ambassadors abroad in order to be able to support our country's fair demands and standing positions. That is what we need, ladies and gentlemen, unanimity within and outside the country's borders, so that we can all unite together as a fist to challenges and create a better tomorrow for this place. This bill, I'm telling you again, may not be as daring as it would be necessary, but it makes a start. And I am very proud that in the first few months the New Democracy has made another election commitment, a pre-election commitment, which, as I said, has no party features, but has national features. I therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, all in this Chamber to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr Katsafados, for keeping time. Mr. SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the Greeks with the suffering of immigration spend all their lives. They live with the longing and the dream of returning. The Greeks where land wants to participate in the life of the country and their constant and constant request were to be able to vote for the Greek Parliament from their place of residence. This longing, this just request from the Greeks abroad has rushed to take advantage of the New Democracy. Her chief on a trip to the United States promised to vote everyone. So how many? Three, five, ten million? After that, and after making - let me express - his figure in common so-called, he has actually landed, dramatically cutting the number of beneficiaries to the right to vote. At the same time, however, the New Democracy and the Almighty, and too much, a lot of leeches to it to slander the SYRIZA that it is against this right of the unsuccessful Greeks. He pretends he ignores the fact that the SYRIZA government was the first and only government to deal seriously with the issue in these forty years of post-military life. Legislative intervention has created on the Haritsis Ministry a cross-party committee which the New Democracy did not vote against, and the committee has come to a conclusion which is sprinkling on the shelves of the Ministry of the Interior, since the new-democratic current leadership of the Ministry refuses to give it to the public. So the Government of New Democracy, from an asshole to an assortment - I remind you of Prespecies, immigration - refugee and so much - forgets the great words about universal suffrage and a dilemma and incorporates into its law to facilitate the vote of our non-Greek compatriots some of the proposals of the Communist Party of Greece, keeping its main aim, which is to measure the vote of the counterparts in the election result, which clearly alters this result. SYRIZA insisted on his proposal for a foreign vote from where the Greeks of the diaspora would choose their own representatives, voting for all Greek citizens on municipal lists, but in a way that will not alter this vote in the final result. The government majority to deal with SYRIZA's fair and strong position took half a step. It proposes compulsory participation in 1/5 for the positions of the ballot from candidates from the family, from which there are no more than two to three Members for all of our relatives. So it removes them the right to crusade. It decides on the leader or party who will represent our relatives. It takes them away, as I said, the right to crusade. Article 10 on the lists clearly states ‘the voter does not have a preference among the candidates for the rule of law’. So it gives them a half-democracy, and it flatters them that they have chosen their own MPs, but that the leaders and parties and party mechanisms and processes have chosen and decided. In the meantime, the final result will have been altered in anti-democratic terms. When we talk, of course, about altering the final result, I would like to tell the Members and colleagues of the New Democracy that we do not believe that the democracies will trust the New Democracy vote. On the contrary, they will support the SYRIZA candidates, because on this occasion of the legislature we are doing here today in order to facilitate their vote, it turns out who is essentially interested in this old demand. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm done. The objections of the representatives of the family at the hearing were catalysts. Mr Kavalis from Egypt said, "You take away the right to vote", calling for the 30-five-year-old limitation to be lifted. Mr. Remidakis from North America, representing three million Greeks stressed that the bill is not acceptable. Stresses, insists, participation in most of the process. Mr. Drosinakis from Hamburg stated: "This law shrinks from the democratic Hellenism". I remind you of them because we said that Mr. Mitsotakis in New York said everyone would vote. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA stands up to the circumstances, supporting this half, miserable, evil solution brought by the government. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have had the opportunity to contribute to making today's day and a historic process. You've lost together, and our relatives have lost a great opportunity. Unfortunately, our relatives' request for election is shrinking and is being elected on clean terms. That was your decision. A lazy democracy we deliver to you, dear compatriots outside Greece. I hope that soon the law will be amended so that democracy can be complete so that the homosexuals can vote for the candidates of their choice directly, rather than the parties themselves and instead of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u221	Thank you. The Minister has asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I have asked why I feel the need to respond to two things Mr Squadron has said. Firstly, the committee's conclusion is public and has a name: ‘SYRIZA's Legislation Proposal’, which was tabled in September. You haven't changed a party either. What can they testify to the Minutes? Your proposal for a law? You haven't even changed a party. I have said so in public, and I have no problem saying that as far as the framework of the draft law was concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u223	Why didn't you bring it to the committees?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u224	What should we bring? The proposal for a law yours will bring to the committees, Mr. Darkness? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u225	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u226	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u227	But you signed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u228	We had done a job on the committees of importance...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u229	Mr Colleague, please speak to the Minister and proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u230	Secondly, on what point of the proposal for a law you have tabled are you talking about a cross in the ballot? Tell us. Are you going to drive us crazy? I feel the need to say that while we are talking about such a nice climate, you come and say that we are cutting off the right to vote and stand for election! What point do you in your proposal and in the proposal for a law are you talking about a cross of preference? And can I tell you something? A cross of preference around the globe? At what expense, with what control, with what, with what, with what, with what? Third part. I think it's clear what everyone wants and what they don't want. It is a clear proposal which is in existence and which is being discussed in the House. The different parties are clear, if you like, suggestions. Well, accusing the New Democracy of not wanting the vote on the results, I think that's going too far. Look around and see who doesn't want the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u231	Now Mr Pascalides has the floor from New Democracy. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, following the vote in favour of the revision of Article 54 of the Constitution, the way in which the law has been passed facilitated for Greek foreign residents to vote in elections and referendums, without coming to Greece. This is a self-evident right for Greeks who live abroad, constitutionally guaranteed and who unfortunately could not be implemented by the previous governments. This request for decades is being made today by the current government in keeping with its election commitments - in addition, as it had made this issue a first priority - to implement it by means of this bill with the desire to vote, as the Prime Minister has said many times, by three hundred Members. And it has emerged throughout the procedures that the current government, in its dealings with the issue without regularization and expediency, has shown its desire for broad acceptance, exhausting all margins of consensus. Indeed, this bill is a product of extensive consultation, it adopts all the essential points of the parties and contains all the guarantees to be voted on by Parliament as a whole. As has been said, the vote of foreign voters is not a matter for today. And I am not simply referring to the fact that the constitutional legislature has defined it as a possibility already since 1975, but also to the fact that other countries have such potential since the beginning of the 20th century. At the moment, the vote of the foreign voters is guaranteed in at least one hundred and fifteen countries. The forms offered are the vote in consular offices, the letter of vote, the vote by delegation and, in some cases, the electronic vote. As far as our country is concerned, the 2001 Review changed two things in the contested provision. Firstly, analogous to the majority needed to change the electoral system in the next election, the provision that the law in question needs a majority of 2/3 of the total number of Members, thus a minimum of two hundred votes, was added. Secondly, at the end of Article 51(4), the statement was added that the principle of the simultaneous holding of the elections does not prevent the exercise of their voting rights by written vote or other appropriate means. It goes without saying that the general principles laid down in Article 51, namely the directity - that is to say, not by a representative - of universality - counts, that is, the vote and measures - and the secrecy of the vote, and the compulsion of the exercise of the electoral right - without any sanctions - are applicable to the voters. On the basis of these constitutional principles, this draft law regulating the constitutional provision for the exercise of elections to the European Parliament and the holding of a national referendum provides for the following: It should be noted that in addition to consulates, other areas including the public areas of the country where the voters live will be used. In order to create an election division, forty voters are required and the highest number is six hundred. This number facilitates the creation of many electoral centres and ensures the secrecy of the vote. The vote of the voters exercising the right to vote in the above elections will be equal to the overall election result and thus to the total distribution of seats. Also, the voters in the foreign sections will choose without a cross-reference to the party's voters who want, at the same time, to increase the number of MPs from twelve to fifteen. Moreover, the Government, in fact, demonstrated the desire for the widest acceptance of this draft law, proceeded to the adoption of up to three of the fifteen members of the prestige vote to come from the migrants and one of them placed in the first three positions. Regarding the right to register on foreign electoral lists, voters have the right to meet cumulatively the following criteria: In the last thirty-five years they have lived for at least two years in Greece and have submitted a statement either in the current or the previous tax year. It should be noted that a tax declaration is not required if the voter has not completed thirty years of life and has made a tax declaration of relative I in the current and previous tax year. To conclude, I would like to stress that the fulfilment of the constitutional requirement is an institutional and technically overtime demand and obligation of the state against an important category of Greek citizens. This legislative initiative is now of major political importance, as it is not only about homosexuals who have left Greece for decades but also about five hundred thousands of citizens who have been forced to leave the country in the years of the crisis. Let us not forget - and I say this as a reassurance of any concern expressed by the representatives of the revenues - that this bill is a huge legislative step from scratch and that it can well be improved in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kyranakis from New Democracy has the floor now and Mr Triantafyllidis is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u234	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the positions and views of all parties and colleagues have been made very clear, and I think that today is a historic day because, over and above our differences, we have managed to agree on something within the institutional framework. And I think it is important to agree on something that is so historic, considering the role of Hellenism outside the borders all these years, over the centuries, considering the role and struggle of King Ferraio from Vienna or the role of the Greeks who have built and established the Friendly Society from Odessa, so that Greece can today be independent and be able to be strong. Today we must all send together a very strong, even more powerful message to all of Hellenism about the value we must give all Greeks and Greek women who want to have a role and voice outside the borders, wherever they are. Having lived, too, ten years away from home, I know very well what a man feels about him, but he wants to return, what he lacks, what his emotions are, what his mentality is, understanding the value of his homeland for him, for his family, for his future, as he or she dreams about him. And the vote is not an end in itself. The right to vote is not, in my opinion, an end in itself. What we define and regulate today is an instrument, so that we can give power and voice to these people. It is an instrument, however, with people of my own generation, the generation of Brain Drain, to make them come back. And we all know that, in whatever party we belong - because we are all talking to young children living abroad, whether they are in Melbourne, Berlin, New York or elsewhere - that, above all, they are seeking to return these children. And they want to see from us and from the current government and from the whole political system that we understand this need, that it is the anxiety that has kicked them out of the country and that the creativity and the change of attitude that we as a political system must bring to Greece is probably the reason for returning. So if they see that today - and I am making a final appeal to Mera25 to see with a positive eye this bill - we have shown for the first time that a bill is passed by three hundred Greek MPs, then they may realize that something is changing. And yes, all governments have made mistakes in this part called "worthiness", but I think we should give the key message we are going to give to this generation that has left is that if they return and if they come to take a role either in business or in public administration, in politics or elsewhere, then the attitude they have gained from abroad, these good practices that we say and say again in the various events, give them the opportunity to put them into Greek practices horizontally, without restriction. This is my thought that I would like to testify and I think that those who know me very well that my feelings towards opposition, especially to SYRIZA, have not hidden them. My criticism is always too intense. Today, I think, we must congratulate the opposition and all the parties that have shown an open spirit and have shown the courage that they can overcome narrow party perceptions so that together we can vote in favour of this self-evident proposal, the national proposal for the right of Greeks to vote abroad. Of course, I should like to congratulate the Minister, Mr Theodorikos, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Livanios, but also Mr Gerapititi, who succeeded in coming to the negotiations with an open spirit, with a spirit of consensus and national consensus, which, in my opinion, should also govern more draft laws. I, Mr President, would also like there to be the possibility of a letter of vote, of not restricting the VAT system or other restrictions imposed by this bill, but I have to acknowledge that it is a positive step. It is a first step, it is only a start so that we can give voice and power to the Greeks abroad, wherever they are all over the planet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u235	Mr Triantafylides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing the National Representation with a sense of patriotic responsibility and, at the same time, the personal sensitivity for my relationship with the relatives, as was built both in the capacity of journalist with the reports, articles, interviews, television coverage in the Greek secular and by the honorary position of the President of the Committee of the Parliament on the Hellenism of the diaspora. I want to be clean. I am without prejudice to this first positive step, but with gaps, omissions, weaknesses and injustices in specific articles. I continue to support and defend SYRIZA's integrated proposal institutional, constitutional and functionally. SYRIZA and Tsipras brought the issue to the heart, with the proposal in the revision of the Constitution for the addition to Article 54(4) for the right to be elected. A request remains for the definition of 2020 as a year of census by the Greeks abroad, which we have tabled for some time now. It is really a shame for the Greek state not to know how many are, who are, how they live, where they live, what their relationship with the country, the Greeks abroad. We have heard both the committee and the plenary, from three hundred thousand to three million. At the end of 2020, at the end of the census year with the results of the census by the Greeks abroad, as does every rationally thinking state, having quantitative and qualitative elements in the grouping of problems, the House should come and cover the gaps, omissions, weaknesses and injustices that have been mentioned and many of our colleagues. I am tabling the unanimously adopted roadmap with the seventeen joint action points, also a tool for the next ones, the next Members. It was voted unanimously in the Committee on Disputeful Hellenism in December 2015. It was sent to three and a half thousand homogenous organizations in Greek and English all over the planet. Why did we say? We said the family united us. The positive assessment, however, is limited by the strong voter's nature of how to manage the issue of majority participation and the Ministry of the Interior, with the insistence that the overall election result should be measured and mandatory. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All the negative criticisms we heard from the representatives of Greek foreigners concern the limitations resulting from the government's vote. Amongst all Greeks voting abroad on the one hand, which was proposed not only by SYRIZA but also by SYRIZA, and by the compulsory counting of the peers' votes on the overall election result, you chose the second, at the same rate of vote. The vote on external voting when we talk about the vote on the motions for resolutions. Because when we talk about the equivalence of internal voting, we are talking about the refusal of simple proportional and caricature results - that does not bother you - to prefectures such as Chania, where the first party in votes elects a Member and the second party four. These are the caricatures of denying the simple analogy and you who are burning for the same vote, you are defending it for the migrants, but you are not defending it for the Greeks inside the home. We have repeatedly proposed, as SYRIZA, that all Greeks abroad, everyone, let them listen to it in all the Greek communities, be able to register without restrictions with the creation of the territory of Hellenism, which can elect up to twelve Members from the same family. Do we want to create institutional links? I'm afraid not. Contrary to what has been said, there is no doubt that it will be possible to do so. New Democracy and PASOK, PASOK and New Democracy as long as you were in the government and had the majority of the two-and-a-half Members, you have forgotten them, you have turned their backs to the family, you have discovered them, when you were in the chairs of the opposition, and after you had been bankrupt together and undividually in the country, after you sent the new generation, the new people abroad, not only because you looted and seized the country, but since you also refined every sense of worthyness with the deposition of the "conne", you have levelled the equitableness, the equitableness with communism, the unworthyness, the "built" which they have insulted for five months. Now you spill crocodile tears for the family. The pain for the family has caught you, along with your graduate State Secretary for the Liberties. Another great pain and he and tears about the family in the search for profitable business. You're the one who hurts the family! You've been taken, in common, by the homosexuals that you're being beaten. You've been told last week in London, the gay students, don't wait for us, we'll be late, eat. Do you understand the implied ‘fake’? What does it mean to the government? This has been said, because in your encouragement to the young children who left by thousands, with the Brain Drain "turn to Greece to become governors in hospitals", you said that to do this, they must first wait to become eighty-two years old. You got that hint, too. The right to vote and to stand as part of the whole democratic process must be exercised in full by all the relatives. Is it possible for Greek expatriates to vote and not to vote? Let me just say it. Isn't it paradoxical that the kinsman from Chicago, Melbourne, Frankfurt, Rostoff and choose Members from Thessaloniki, Heraklion and Corfu to represent what? What do the Greek MPs know about the problems, the daily life of the Greek Parliament, his anxiety about him and his children? The notorious for homeland. The federation needs its own representatives and believe me, following the proposal put forward for the twelve Members in June 2016, where this was also noted. What's that? Homogeneity does not want to be involved in current intergroup disputes. He wants to add rather than remove. To multiply and not divide. He wishes to participate in a competition from the country and not in a competition of deterioration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Kamines has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, it has had to be about half a century. Two revisions of the Constitution were needed to enable us to vote today on the law whereby non-stated Greeks would be able to participate in the elections. The reason for this delay, I believe, is obvious. There are so many Greeks abroad, that for decades and regardless of a parliamentary majority the fear that their turnout to the polls would be too wide to experience the election result inside the country. For this reason, in 2001, the Constitutional Review set the highest limit of 2/3 of the total number of Members in order to vote on the relevant law. It should be noted that such a high threshold is uncompromising, and on the contrary even in procedures of top state of importance, such as the Revision of the Constitution and the election of the President of the Republic, the Constitution is now limited to a smaller or much smaller majority. As we all know here, in order to reach the agreement of the parliamentary groups needed a second constitutional review today, it was only a few weeks ago. We reviewed Article 54 in order to establish there the possibility for the legislator to impose certain reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the electoral right. We know, however, that we have revised the wrong article, not of course, but of indifference, because we had not taken care of the House to include Article 51 in the articles to be revised. We have thus reached the paradox of reviewing an indirect article of the Constitution in breach of Article 110. Hours have been spent both in the previous Parliament and in the current question of the second parliament's commitment from the directions of the first. The subject also dealt with constitutional theory. All this controversy was eventually thrown into the gallery of the useless, since not only did we not respect the directions of the House proposed, but we overshooted the dilemma itself by reviewing, without confessing, the provisions of the Constitution, which were not even among the revised ones. The dissatisfaction of the Greek associations abroad is understandable, since the restrictions contained in the bill exclude most. They're right. We, in the Change Movement, have, from the outset, supported the unrestricted participation of all on the basis of the democratic principle, the principle of universality. Could reality be different? The answer is negative. Why? For there are the parliamentary powers, which are essentially vetoing because of the increased majority. As mentioned in the detailed report by the Venice Commission, however, there are restrictions in many countries with a large number of frauds. In fact, in some of them, such as Cyprus, Malta and Ireland, there is neither the constitutional nor legislative provision for the vote on redundancies. In us, the number of evacuations is not large just because of successive migrations. It is further and undetermined because of the law of blood, which traditionally prevails in Greek Law of Citizenship. Anyone who proves Greek origin, even if it is overcrowded by many generations, is entitled to the Greek nationality. However, as the relatively recent change in German citizenship law suggests, the absolute supremacy of blood law everywhere retreats. It does not respond to modern global conditions of human mobility. Especially for Greece, which in recent decades has been converted into a host country, the law of citizenship has been established in obsolete data from other times. In a way, ladies and gentlemen, we are on account of blood law in the face of a de facto enforcement of the choices of the joint legislator, through the Code of Nationality, to the detriment of the revised legislator. In a quasi-conversion, not of the formal hierarchy of the rules of law, but of their effective effect. The written vote has been taken. We must realise that we are basically complementing the second decade of the 21st century. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to agree with most of the people who have been ahead of us. The bill we are debating today is a first decisive step in the participation of Greeks abroad, in the political life of the country, and that is why we will be very happy to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. Mr Karaoglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, to give the Greek Parliament the right for Greek citizens to vote in our national elections from the place of their permanent residence is a question of the quality of our democracy. This bill marks a leading institutional division and is also an indicator of the maturity of our political system. It is not a compromise product, nor a transaction, as some have argued, but above all it is a matter of principle. We are therefore called upon to vote on a national issue tonight, a self-evident fundamental right, in which it is inappropriate to crush into the millstones of micro-participatoryism, let alone be misled by those who wrongly believe that Greeks abroad will become a party army. For us in the New Democracy, the exercise of the right to vote of Greeks who are abroad on the day of the parliamentary elections has been a direct priority since the start. We raised the issue emphatically from the pre-election period and from the next election, as a government, we have taken all the necessary initiatives to make use of the dynamism and the clean eyes of the Greeks. We want to show our compatriots abroad that Greece, their homeland, did not forget them, as well as that Greece stops hurting them all the time. First of all, the possibility of voting from their residence will enable thousands of Greeks abroad to reconnect with their homeland. I am referring not only to the thousands who have emigrated to the years of the crisis, but also to those who have been missing for many years are at risk of being cut off from their roots. In this way they will feel even more strongly that they should be involved in the country's recovery effort, that they become the best ambassadors of Hellenism. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote of the frustrations is increasing Greece and is not a shape of speech. It ensures equality of opportunity and turns the House into an expressor, not only of the will of our people, but of universal Hellenism. We do not mean to support in our public positions that the Greeks of the diaspora are the most powerful element of our nation and that there are political parties that refuse them to participate in the national elections from their home country. It does not mean appealing to them to any difficulties and refusing them to make an active contribution, by their vote, to improving their homeland at an economic, social and political level. I'm going to set another parameter. I hear very often colleagues from the opposition parties saying that from Greeks abroad only the about four hundred thousand are registered on the electoral lists and have Greek tax numbers. They overlook, however, that if Mother Greece shows by deeds to these people that it considers them to be active citizens, then there is no doubt that this number will increase very significantly. It also defines our Constitution in Article 108(1): The state takes care of the life of the democratic Hellenism and of maintaining its ties with the mother country. So here's our chance. In any case, the right to vote on the Greeks abroad is the most important intervention to be taken in our own country, along with all the rest, of course, the reduction of bureaucracy, the reduction of taxation, the attraction of investment, in order to achieve what we all want, growth. There must be no micropolicy on this issue. We are faced with a major challenge and all of us are called upon to write a political story. The three hundred positive votes, which would be ideal and desirable, do not only prove consent, but also seal a historic agreement, which makes it self-evident that Greeks abroad must be involved in the formation of the election result and therefore in the distribution of the three hundred seats of our Parliament. I will close, saying that a problem of decades is finally solved. Our Greek compatriots who live abroad are not second-class citizens. We do not have the right to deprive them of participation in developments in Greece. We do not have the right to forbid them by our vote to love and care for their country. Having a Greek two-place of residence does not automatically make it less Greek. And because most of us in this Chamber and millions of our compatriots watching us from television have children who have emigrated abroad for better luck, let us consider the burden and responsibility of voting tonight. By hugging the Greeks of the interior, we show them that we are counting on their participation in domestic developments and demanding at the same time, through their vote, that they express an opinion on the formation of Greece of the future, of Greece that suits us, of Greece, who knows what he wants and where he goes. Building a society of equal opportunities, we will enable every Greek and every Greek woman to unfold their talent. At the same time, we make it clear to the remote Greeks that it is really worth their hearts to be beaten for Greece and their gaze is always in the homeland, as many miles away. At the beginning of my speech, ladies and gentlemen, I stressed that facilitating the vote of the Greeks on the election day is a right. I correct it: it is an obligation of a modern democratic state. So let us put aside the parties' dividing lines and do our national duty today. The vote of the Greeks, wherever they live, cannot be divided into accusations. Parliamentary unanimity on such a critical national issue does not strengthen the government, on the contrary it symbolises the unity of the Greeks and, at the same time, highlights the dynamic of the country in a period of particularly increased challenges and demands where our sovereign rights are questioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Minister, for the time. Now Mr Tsavdaridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Deputy Minister, today in Parliament we are discussing a draft law of historical importance for our nation, a bill that does not go beyond the narrow limits of the Greek area, but must above all overcome political contradictions, party controversies, ideological constraints and dogmatism. We have a sense of responsibility to vote on a legislative framework that will finally enable Greeks abroad to vote from their permanent residence. We are called upon to do the self-evident thing, which, unfortunately, has already been a matter for our country and the source of an unprecedented paradox, a paradox which is that the Greeks who are already on the electoral lists of the country and who are already able to take a plane back and vote without any hindrance at all, without anyone asking them any papers and any evidence, have the opportunity to vote from their home places. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, we are doing nothing thanks to the Greeks abroad, but instead we are legislating on a prerequisite, both from the logic and from their moral and facilitation, which, although self-evident, has been afflicted with walls of party insecurity, suspicion, ostrichism. But above all in today's vote we are called upon, in practice, to confirm one more self-evident thing, that Greeks abroad do not constitute a cart point of reference of Hellenism in the lengths and backs of the earth that we remember only when from the metropolitan homeland we need their voice and their pressure levers. On the contrary, the Greeks of the world are a vital part of Hellenism and dynamic nuclei of local societies where they operate and magnify thanks to their merits and science. Greeks who keep and translate to foreign places our values, our traditions, our special culture and make us proud of their achievements. The Government of the New Democracy with a sense of responsibility these very self-evident points of view are now being implemented rapidly, in practice implementing a further dominant electoral commitment, in a spirit of cooperation and the making available of reasoned steps of convergence and cross-party consensus, in order to achieve this possible. It is good to be clear to our offspring and to clarify once again the following: The New Democracy was and is in favour of the Greek vote abroad, as all the representatives of the Greek community underlined. Unfortunately, however, this position does not enjoy the approval required by the Constitution of the country, and at this stage it is clear that it cannot be established. Therefore, the New Democracy has made concessions with a view to composing. Without these concessions, we would have led to the logic of 'all or nothing' and the result would unfortunately be nothing. As a responsible party, from the beginning of its establishment to the present day, the New Democracy has not been prospered by conflictual logic on the basis of its own right, but the common good works on a unique criterion. In this sense, it is New Democracy's right to open the way for the vote of the impoverished Greeks from their permanent places of residence which proudly address thousands of Greeks of the diaspora registered on the electoral lists. It is right for the New Democracy that the cross-party consensus that the vote of voters exercising their right to vote in the above elections will count equally on the election result and therefore on the overall distribution of seats, a proposal which we have set from the outset as a dominant pillar and a red line towards the opposite logic of SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill strengthens Greekism even more, opens up prospects for new partnerships and initiatives, is largely activated by the Greeks abroad, whose calm and unselfish political crisis, the international sensory and the boom of its new culture is absolutely essential to our Greece. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing one of the few bills that there is no reason and no political argument from any of the Parliament's warrings justifying its vote. A draft law on exhaustive consultation, important cross-party convergences, absolutely self-evident provisions in his articles, and above all a draft print and a message of national unity and homogeneity at a very critical and charged period for our national issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Tsigris has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr. Vitsats. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a unique opportunity for consensus for the Greek Parliament, it is a unique opportunity to unite our national forces, to prove in practice national unity, to become all Greeks a fist at this difficult time for the nation, the country, the Greekism. I have five arguments to convince the last remaining negligents of consensus. Objection first. The 1/3 of Hellenism resides outside the border. We are the only state, the only people in the world with residents in almost all the nations of the world. Five million Greeks are in a hundred different states.They are the largest ambassadors to our national affairs. They are the guardians of our national borders and of the rights of our country. Sixty thousand Greeks are in South America, hundred thousand in Asia and Africa, three hundred and fifty thousand in Canada, seven hundred thousand in Australia, one million in the states of Europe, three million in the United States of America. Two: In the stone years of the crisis, they emigrated about five hundred thousand Greek women and Greeks. It's not an exaggeration to say that our best minds left. Greece's bleeding. The best part of Hellenism lies abroad. They went to get a job and they'll be permanent. They had families, kids. They've been thrown into new homelands. They serve other states. This is where they were educated. This is where they got values, principles. And they serve other states. We cannot allow that. The vast majority of them are in the age group from twenty-eight to forty years. Business Third: Thirty-seven thousand four hundred eighty-four Greek students study in foreign universities. Greece recently made another mistake. He refused the revision of Article 16 of the Constitution. He condemned Greeks to study elsewhere, leave mother, father home, friends, acquaintances and stay away from their homeland. Greece expels the best part of the Greeks. Don't make the same mistake today. Fourth argument, for anyone who is not convinced yet: the Parliament's intergroup on demographics, in its report, concludes that in 2025, namely in five years, Greece will have one million four thousand fewer inhabitants and its population will be between 10.4 and 9.5 million inhabitants and will suffer a population decline of 0.45%. Fifthly, our neighbour Turkey, which we are all concerned about, has eighty and two million people under international law. Within one year, from 2018 to 2019, it increased its population by one million percent ninety thousand. These five arguments are catalysts to convince the last colleague in the Greek Parliament that Greece must give a clear signal that we are united as ever, determined to go together as a fist. The Greeks will never make the same mistakes again. Today, if we vote all three hundred tomorrow, the whole world will talk about Greece: "For the first time, the Greeks united after many years". And this is a great development for the future of Hellenism and Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, too. Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. We could have held a formal sitting, said in the negotiation process 'Here we are. We are therefore giving the right to the Greeks, who are outside the territory, to vote in a certain way. And from that point on, life goes on. We all love Greece and the expatriates." We could. That's not what we picked. We chose other things. And this, I'm sorry, releases me too. Unless that's what you want. Of course, we are too few to be divided. But we are too many to have different opinions. Do you deny that? Do we all have the same opinion? In 20 days we have 2020. In Greece, too, the law of blood applies. It was the right of blood that formed nations - states in the 18th and 19th centuries. And that's what we need to remember. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In fact, the Minister, speaking here, combined this law with Greece's demographic problem. How? At least the Greek Solution comes out and says "we fear the country's islamism". Isn't that what he says? In another situation he would say that four hundred years under the Ottoman yoke we kept our Greekity. Uh, now, how is it that a few thousand people have been able to isolate us for four hundred years not to have been able to isolate ourselves and to keep our Greekity? They know. Let's see how they solve it. We've got worse. It is written, Minister, in the report. Goddamn it! Both special rapporteurs have said so. It is mentioned for the first time in 1862 in the Constitution. "Happy in 1863!" I say to you. Do you know what the territory of the country was in 1862? It was Central Greece, the Peloponnese and some islands. And when we were talking about it then, the main thing was to extend Greece. And they come and tell me that Trikoupis was a London MP. They do not remember the other thing that Trikoupis said: 'We are Williams from Mesolonghi'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u247	Venizelos said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u248	Don't make a bet. Let it go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u249	Venizelos didn't say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u250	It wasn't Venizelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u251	Let it go. It's okay. Don't waste time on this. Okay, we all love each other. Tell me you love them the most: Why have you not done anything for so many years? Why haven't you spent all these years a law that gives that possibility? And now you say "we're back, because we want a letter vote, we want everyone to vote, there's no limitation, etc." The last speaker - I will say this funny - would end up with having one domestic government and one foreign government, if it were ten million Greeks who voted abroad, who have nothing to do with our way of life, with our tax, with our health, with one another. You are sweating the ears of the people who are abroad, the Greeks, the Greeks, the expatriates, not looking forward to the vote of those who are now on the electoral lists, but those who will be on the electoral lists. And I don't know what Mr. Diagnost might have to do with it. It would be very interesting at today's meeting for Mr Diadiaris and Mr Vlassis to speak, who is well known. And of course he loves Greece, the relatives etc. And I must assure you that I have many relatives both in America and Australia. I don't have in Germany. But that's how we have to see it. We, now, give the right not of the relatives. Don't lie to people. We're giving Greeks the right to live off the ground. We give them the right. Don't be fooled. If that's your goal, why have you been waiting so long so that the two parties don't have any MPs? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You waited so long that the two parties cumulatively didn't have? That is the main issue. So we'll vote together. We have, in my opinion, a good proposal. Well done to all of us for making it. Would you like me to give someone more credit, Mr. Theodorikos? I'll give it to you. We don't have a problem. If you want me to give the JRC as well - which, anyway, retains its position on the law of blood, which I agree - I shall do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u252	Mr Colleague, you have reached six minutes and there are a number of other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u253	If I went to six minutes, while sometimes migrating and going to America and taking the boat, etc., thank you very much. And what we have to see, we'll see it in the next time in the listings.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr. Vitsa. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u255	He wasted time asking why he didn't vote for all these years. And, of course, I am from a child in PASOK, and Mr. Lappas previously accused me of having taken a break from the pre-request committee, that I am too PASOK! And I say to him: 'Yes, I am very PASOK and it is my honour and my pleasure, Mr Lappa!'. And you've wasted time, Mr. Vitsa, to ask. Why don't you ask him - I know at least why he didn't introduce it - the last interior minister in your party? Why don't you ask: "What were your arguments, Yiannis, when they told you to vote on the Greeks of the Diaspora?" And he said, "Am not!" Ask him. I'm telling you, honestly. He said that's how the Democratic Party would never come out. A great lie was saying that the Democratic party will never come out if we vote - it says - to the Greeks abroad. A big lie! I find it daily with the phones I get from all the Greeks abroad. They tell me about PAK, PASOK, Andreas Papandreou. Yannis, yours. We don't want anything to do with him. Take him and gift him. Big liar! So we come to what you said from this Step and say that you are concerned about the bill, that it has limitations, because it does not leave all the room behind. Yeah, that's right. But were you the ones who blackmailed us, but I suppose the government, which accepted the limitations set by the JRC for economic reasons? [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Because that's what you did! You were outside, didn't give support, so Mr. Theodorikos said to us: “What should I do? I have to accept that the ties of Greeks abroad with Greece are the PVO! What a disgrace to those who say that Greeks abroad will be judged by the existence of VAT or not! No, gentlemen. Whether the Greek foreigner is Greek says it is his heart, his soul says it. Greeks abroad are the ones who respond to the call of Greece, the country for national unity whenever they are in a difficult position and not the ones who have real estate and VAT. Greeks abroad are the ones who insist despite the many years they are gone, teaching Greek to their children, speaking Greek, dancers, live and mutate Greek culture. These are Greeks. And not those who have real estate and VDUs, gentlemen of the JRC! Shame on you to put such a matter and link the political right to economic relations and trade. Very clearly, therefore, these restrictions came in - and the government has misunderstood these blackmails - because SYRIZA was outside and said: "Strengthen the framework first and I will come after this Step to say that the law is bad, because it has limitations". Unfortunately, that was the game you played all days. So let us see - if you like - even by 12 o'clock the amendments that can be made and vote with pleasure. Economic ties are not the bonds that the country must demand from Greeks abroad. They are politicians, nationalists, patriots, cultural ties. And they don't fit into nine or ten digits of VDU. The Change Movement supports this proposal despite the fact that, from the outset, everyone on the electoral lists and on the polling lists must have the right to vote. And of course, by updating the catalogues. Secondly, the possibility of a letter of vote to everyone in remote areas. Why would it be forty? If it's thirty-nine, isn't it Greek and if it's forty then it's Greek? You're a government that accepted these things. If it's thirty-nine, isn't it Greek? And if it's forty, are they Greeks in a remote part of the world, the earth? Please lower this number. They can and will be twenty. The third point we have said is that they should be elected separately. There should be a separate electoral district. It was not possible for many reasons. And at the last moment, the government accepted our proposal that it should be compulsory for all parties that go down to the national elections to place on the top of at least one in the first three positions. And of course, each party should put as many numbers as it wants to show that it really wants the vote and the participation of the Greeks abroad. I liked Mr. Vitch, but he doesn't know what happened in the committee. He doesn't know everything. If, then, this honest, democratic, patriotic dialogue really were to be done, the bill would now be much better. In any case, we support and hope that at a later stage the conditions will be created for no one to be prevented from being and feeling Greek from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, the 30-second speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u257	He didn't say anything about you. He made a review. It was generally addressed to the party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u258	For a while, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u259	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u260	I just want to assure the Greek Parliament that Mr Yiannis Ragussis was not an agent of SYRIZA at the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Party, never! Like other members of the Greek Parliament who are currently in New Democracy, they are not SYRIZA agents in New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u261	Mrs Papakostas - Palioura from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, although we have a difficult day today, I think that Mr Kegeroglu has gone slowly, he succeeded and stimulated us. I will drop the tons and I would like to start my speech by dedicating it to two very important people - as I come from parents of migrants and have been born in Sweden - who have lived a very important part of their lives abroad. However, they never ceased to hope that sincere Hellenism, this so important chapter, - invaluable value, I would say - can finally have an active role in our country's political events. So I could not, today, feel very honoured and proud, which, even with a delay of decades, finally comes to the vote in this House from the current government on the bill on the vote on Greeks. The intention of the Government and of the New Democracy over time was and is to facilitate Greeks living abroad so that they can exercise their electoral right unforeseen and unpredictablely from their residence, as is provided for in our Constitution. The proposal for a law, therefore, to facilitate the exercise of the right of the relatives of the New Democracy to vote for the first time enables everyone on the electoral lists to be able to exercise their electoral right on local diplomatic and consular authorities. The New Democracy, with this proposal for a law, wants to facilitate all our fellow citizens who live abroad or serve to a Greek authority abroad as well as to Greek seafarers. Let us not forget the numerous community of Greek citizens living outside the country's borders today, which has been formed by both Greek and migrant waves during the economic crisis, which has to be a community that has been subject to rules in the form of the country's political situation. From the outset Hellenism offers valuable services to the nation and we in turn have to show how we can respond and give essential content to the constitutional principles of popular sovereignty and universality of vote. The proposed draft law regulates the constitutional provision for the exercise of the electoral right of voters who on the day of the national elections, the European elections and the holding of a national referendum. Outside the territory of a electorate is any Greek citizen who has the right to vote and is registered on the electoral lists and on the day of the election is permanently or temporarily outside Greece. Following the broad constitutional review of 2001, and in particular paragraph 4 of Article 51, the constitutional legislature introduced the need for a large majority in order for Parliament to be able to regulate the issues of non-national voters. In this Constitutional Review a interpretative statement was added to Article 54 on the basis of which restrictions may be placed on the exercise of the right to vote by foreign Greeks. The main restriction in Greek law on the right to vote concerns the exercise rather than the acquisition of the right in question by non-Greek citizens who are present permanently or temporarily Greek citizens. Specifically, under the current electoral legislation, as codified in the Presidential Decree as amended and in force, but also in the more specific provisions applicable to other national procedures in force, Greek voters exercise their right to vote in person in the elections which are formed in each municipality of the country. Because I do not want to tire of repetitions that many colleagues have mentioned all day in the restrictions imposed by the draft law in question, I would also like to give other colleagues the opportunity to speak. I would therefore like to close my speech by saying that for the first time after many decades Greece, unfortunately, because of the economic crisis, has again become an export of labour. Greek citizens left the country seeking out work and with hope one day when conditions allow them to repatriate. In these Greeks who have fresh ties to the mother country as well as to all the Greeks of the Diaspora who maintain lime the flame of Hellenism no one has the right or moral stature to raise obstacles to the bridge with Greece. International experience shows that any practical obstacles can be easily overcome if there is a political will. There is no excuse for raising the democratic deficit with time and Greek citizens, who have direct and objective ties with their homeland, being deprived of their basic rights. This is a unique opportunity to strengthen our country's democracy. I firmly believe that all parties in this House will support this proposal of the Government, because we in the New Democracy believe it is a realistic, politically viable and administratively practicable proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u263	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u264	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u265	Mr Pafilis Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u266	We don't get used to interfering, but there's a reason. Listening to Mr Kegeroglu, we wonder how courageous a party has to have that which has been ruling for so many years and which represents the patron of the Greek emigrants with crowns of golden, Mr President. What does Mr. Kegoroglou tell us and he blames us? 'Why', he says, 'we set criteria'?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u267	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u268	Leave it now. Shame on you. Now I'll tell you at the end if you're causing me. What does Mr. Kegeroglu say? 'The Greek soul'. That's the criterion. So he who has no connection with Greece will get evidence from the psychiatrist that he is a Greek soul? We tried titania, I would say, as a Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u269	Did you hear what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u270	I heard very well. "What proves is the Greek soul." In fact, you have addressed the JRC with regard to the VRC and the tax declaration. First of all, we are the party that, all the years when they were government, denied everything we said, needs to solve the problem of migrating. We are the party that we have sit on the table despite the great differences and have tried - I do not know if we have done so, let everyone who judges us do so - get a positive result in terms of migrants. And now the PASOK, which has not done anything for so many years? The opposite is true. Not to open my mouth on other sides, for the charters they came and who paid, for the lobbys that were behind and which were hidden and which are supported today. Tell us it's Greek's soul? I'm done, wait. We know what's going on and what lobby is behind all these policies. That is why the attack on us is unacceptable and immoral and unequivocal. We have no problem with political controversy as long as we are serious about political arguments rather than krone. You go tell the Cretans, Mr. Kegoroglou, that everyone who is, five million, ten million, and who will determine what the Greek government will be. Based on what? The soul. The practice is different. I say, therefore, that view of the blood refers far too far. And finally, we understand it, it's the death spear or, to say more kindly, the swan song.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u271	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u272	He asked for the floor, Mr Raguss, because he reported, but, Mr Ragosi, it was not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u273	Definition of staff. With sluts in the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u274	Don't shout. Mr. Ragossi, are you asking him for staff? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Let us talk. I apply the Rules of Procedure. There are two cases for us to ask for staff. Or excitement or alteration of the contents of the speaker immediately beforehand. Tell us what it is, Mr Ragosi, the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u275	What he said earlier, Mr President, Mr Kegeroglu, which I would say under other circumstances I was surprised to hear, but I will lie if I say that the lies Mr Kegeroglu is telling us are no longer surprising. And I mean what I am saying: as Mr Papandreou may well know, the entire government of that time and first and best, the Prime Minister and current colleague of Mr Kegeroglu, Mr Papandreou, ever during the two years 2009-2011, which I was at the Ministry of the Interior, the government of George Papandreou, did not even initiate discussions to create a bill to facilitate off-site voters. Last time the PASOK was called on to take a stand on this matter, George Papandreou was called upon when he was in the opposition, so I was not an Interior Minister, and then PASOK unanimously voted against the New Democracy bill. The rest that Mr Kegherolgos said once again simply attests his own individual to such a level of political morality, which I would like to believe is not about all of the fellow Members of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u276	But Mr. Kegeroglu - and I'm sorry - did not say anything that offends anyone. He said his personal opinion, how he sees Hellenism. All right, that's what's going on in Parliament. Personal thoughts and perceptions become... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen, many issues would not be raised if the legislator - and I am referring not only to the Greek legislator but also to the European - did not match citizenship with citizenship many years ago. But that is the reality today. Let us not analyse concepts. It's a difficult issue, and it takes a long time to develop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, I do not want to answer Mr Ragosi. Everyone is responsible for his course, his path, his options, as well as his judging every time at every stage of his journey what he said and what he did. However, I would like to answer Mr Pafile, because PASOK has become the fold here. Whatever progressive change has taken place in Greece has been made by this movement. It's an honored route. He brought many well-being days to the country. It's a movement that I've defended with all my honesty and soul all these years and I know it has offered the Greek people everything. And today that you've all filled with executives from our space, who are the ones who left for various reasons, for personal reasons, for their chair, for their evolution, for their aspirations...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u280	It's none of our business.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u281	No, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u282	Tell someone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u283	I have to say to you that this space and against the KKE, which has always respected it, and against all the progressive forces that supported them... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'm sorry, but he talked about a specific case involving the VDU, and it wasn't that big a reason to have this all outburst. However, I would like to say that because all the factions here are looking at us and you are showing us in a way, as if we have destroyed the country, I must tell you that we made this country and if we lived the days of well-being the Greeks after the Migration to a very large proportion, not only to us, we owe it to us. So I want a respect for a forty-four-year-old ride. Don't forget, the pear has the tail back. This place didn't die. It has deep roots. It shows it every day that passes and will prove in practice that those who pass it today will be accountable to the history of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u284	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Kegeroglu, I think this has been covered. Mr. Scandalides, I think he covered you. It was a general placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, I can have the floor for the personal reports...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor. But let's say a little tons. It's not worth that tension in such a bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u288	My criticism of the JRC relates to the relationship between the political right to vote and the economic situation of the citizen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u289	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u290	There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u291	This relationship with me is the wrong political assessment. It's the wrong politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u292	We put a tax height on it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u293	It's a crisis. They're different locations, Mr. Palphie, the world isn't lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u294	If this may be extended - imagine it - and on the inside, say what is going on. That and nothing else. That's all. You were out there and you didn't hear what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u295	I heard them all right on TV.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u296	You didn't hear what I said. Now what you've told me about the goldsmiths, I'm returning them to you, Mr. Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u297	Please, ladies and gentlemen! It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u298	As far as Mr Ragosi is concerned, what I said was an internal PASOK debate rather than a public debate in Parliament, on the basis of this legislative framework. It was about an internal PASOK debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u299	Thank you very much. The clarifications have been made. Mr. Constantinidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as stated in the explanatory statement, the right to vote of non-national voters is to be reserved for the purpose of forging substantial ties between Greeks and Greeks. This need becomes even more urgent because of the migration of a large number of our compatriots during the time of the crisis. It is also obvious that Greeks who permanently live abroad for objective or subjective reasons do not have the same ties with the country. However, the bill under discussion is undoubtedly a powerful lever for strengthening the ties between the Greeks and the Greek state, i.e. the organization and functioning of the state. At the same time, it is an incentive for Greeks abroad to participate and co-formulate the political life of the place. That is why this universal electoral law is fundamentally concluded with the construction of the Greeks of the diaspora, a force that I think we all feel has not been exploited to the full, despite the state's long-term efforts and certainly has much to offer. Therefore, this legislation can be the starting point for a more targeted and effective activation of the inexhaustible forces of Greeks living abroad through the design and implementation of policies that will give them access to metropolitan-center issues across the range of economic, social and political life. We must confess, ladies and gentlemen, that Greeks who live abroad feel devastated, feel that their activation becomes short-term and fragmented. Even during the debate on the draft law we have received this message on the basis of the limitations placed on the exercise of their right to vote. I do not underestimate the important initiatives that have been taken in the past and the actions that have been carried out at times. But there is no doubt a lot of room to bring our compatriots living abroad closer to us. From the work of the Special Permanent Committee on the Hellenism of the Dispersion, in which I have the honour of participating, I have recorded the dimensions of the subject and also important weaknesses, structural and operational. So, having expressed my pleasure in fulfilling this national debt, I would like to highlight a fundamental shortage that I have identified. It is noted that the relevant Ministry and the Secretariat-General do not have a consolidated and up-to-date database of Greeks residing abroad, and where such data are not suitable for organised and systematic processing. Consequently - and since the next period following the vote on the bill will start a great deal of effort to get this the greatest possible response - we have the golden opportunity to make use of the invitation to all the compatriots abroad, asking them, apart from the electoral lists, to register in a second register, the Migratory Greeks register. They may even choose areas of interest and offer to pursue a number of national objectives. In this way we will be able to draw up the first universal register of Greeks and make use of the endless forces of Hellenism in various already recognised and applied actions, such as the promotion of Philhellenicism, the support of our homogenous clubs and Church, economic diplomacy, the dissemination of culture and the Greek language, and others that will be adopted in the future. At a practical level, I recommend that any action to promote registration should be accompanied by a corresponding entry in the Universal Register of Degrees of Greeks. It is obvious that this register should have the potential and the electoral list, i.e. be open to entries, corrections and write-offs. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the draft law on the facilitation of non-state voters is another commitment by the government, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to Greek women and Greeks, which is achieved by the exhaustion of every consensus, mainly by the government majority. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] I hope, in fact, that it will soon widen its scope to include all Greeks who live abroad and be accompanied by other corresponding initiatives that grow up and strengthen our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u301	Ladies and gentlemen, there are twelve speakers left. The bill is basic, institutional and, of course, I think everyone should speak. That's why we do it four minutes with a tolerance of half a minute so you can all talk. Mrs Helen Rapt from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today came to the House a bill that was a few decades late. The vote of the results was a large part missing from the puzzle of Greek democracy. And despite the fact that the logic of the figures has scolded it on his parliamentary path, because we, ladies and gentlemen, wanted to do so without computing restrictions, even in this form if it is voted on, will be a huge addition to our national legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, I will stay at the four convergence points that can make this draft law of the Greek state. Point one. The self-representation of the electorate in electoral departments to be set up in embassies, consulates, landmarks or other suitable premises. It is therefore not limited to the election section in the embassy or consulate of the country, since this would deprive thousands of voters who live in cities that do not have diplomatic authority. Also, the minimum number to set up an election division is forty voters, which means that even in small towns inhabiting Greeks of the diaspora, they will be able to exercise their electoral right. Point two. The vote of the voters exercising their right to vote in the above elections will be equal to the overall election result and thus to the total distribution of seats. So they vote like every Greek. Point 3. The state MPs are growing from twelve to fifteen, and the voters will choose the party's voters who want to vote without putting a cross of preference. Despite the increase of the MPs of the State by three, this does not restrict any of the parties to put in polling positions those candidates from the Greek dispersion want. Just making an indication at the present of this future possibility, just as long as we think of strong figures from the Greeks who are prestigious, interconnected by institutional legitimacy by the Greek people themselves to dedicate the Greek votership and how much this can strengthen Greece internationally. Point 4. The right to register on the electoral lists. Here, therefore, there is a cumulative right to vote on those who have been emigrants in the last thirty-five years lives in Greece for two years and have submitted a tax declaration, either in the current or the previous tax year. In my opinion, each one of his own is very restrictive and unfair, let alone their combination. Love, nostalgia at home is judged by E2? Can this be a criterion for voting rights? I have known - and I am sure we all have - who wait for the summer to come to Greece, who have sent their children and grandchildren to Greek schools, who speak of Greece and are moved. They have not lived for the last thirty-five years in Greece, but have come thirty-five times. They don't make a statement here because they live in another country. Apart from the democrats, do they also have to be inherited from the right to vote? I know this is a compromise. But at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for us to take a leap to the homeland, the one that every time we seek it where there is a national issue, the one we ask for its connections, the one that has senators, MPs, advisors to presidents and candidate presidents, who maintains churches and Greek schools, which keeps Greece and the flag high. If this were to count more, ladies and gentlemen, I would be voting in favour of the plan with both hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u303	Thank you for your time. Mr. Kouvelas Dimitrios is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as yesterday, sixty-six years ago, the great Greek George Seferis was honoured with the highest distinction between Nobel Literature. The debate prior to this period to facilitate our compatriots to vote from their permanent homes abroad, a debate, I remind you, which the Prime Minister himself opened at private meetings with the leaders of the other political parties, continued with the special intergroup set up for this purpose and, of course, arrived at the relevant committee of Parliament, where the original draft law was introduced, brought me to mind the words of Seferis: "Nostalling your place, living in your place, nothing is more bitter." I am referring, ladies and gentlemen, to the reservations expressed on your part with regard to the government's most clear and democratic proposal on facilitating our compatriots to vote on from their homes. What was that proposal? It had two distinctive points: first, universal participation and even with a dilemma in the national elections and in the European elections. Secondly, it is an equal vote, that is to say, that our constituents should vote for a prime minister. The last one, of course, was the red line for the New Democracy. We would never agree to two categories of Greek voters and citizens. The irony is that these discriminations were put to the debate by the left of SYRIZA, in fact, making many of them wonder and nostalgic about the left's struggles for massive popular participation in the processes of our democracy. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, what exactly the reasons have led you to fear. You saw conspiracy in the discussions that took place between the other parties in order, frankly, to find a common place so that they could make concessions from their initial positions, a convergence, to reach an agreement on this issue. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that another thing is to make it easier for our compatriots who permanently reside abroad to vote for and another thing is what they will finally vote for and whom they will vote for. To be able to vote is our historic obligation. Who will vote, who will naturally judge it, after assessing the proposals of the parties and the candidates who will implement them. As the Minister for the Interior rightly pointed out, it does not matter in this debate and in the way who made the most compromises. It is important that we send out the message as a House of Greeks, especially to the culprits of our country and within our country. It's a pity, as it seems, that the taste we'll leave tonight to our compatriots who don't live in our country, but they're nostalgic about our country and they care about our country, they'll be sweet. The message of consensus is the first step that is taking place today. It's a history and above all a tonic. I hope that the conditions will soon ripe for the written vote on the results, and of course, above all, I hope that we will have convergence and unity on all our important national issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u305	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Athanasios Ljutas has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a day's milestone for the whole of Hellenism. To facilitate the exercise of the electoral right of Greeks living abroad means, in essence, the recognition and satisfaction of a very important need. It is the need for all Greeks wherever they are able to participate in the commons of our country, to decide, like all of us, about the future of our country, about the future of all generations, of all Greeks. Immigration is a term linked to the history of Hellenism. There was a need for immigration in our country over time. Mostly because of tolerance many Greeks sought a better life in our long history for themselves and their families away from our homeland. This tradition of immigration has been greatly strengthened during the last ten years, namely in the years of the major crisis. But immigration was either earlier or today was not and is not capable of blocking the ties between the Greeks and the country from which they came. Rather, their love and anguish about what is happening behind always characterize their entire lives. Historically the Greek diaspora operated as a patriot, diplomat and fighter in favour of national interest. Even at critical historical times the Greek dispersion was the one that continuously won battles on the international precinct for the benefit of the coup d'état of Hellenism. In these historic times and times of great tolerance and concern for the development of the country were the Greek immigrants who contributed the greatest in order to support the Greek society. The contribution of the new wave of immigration to our country is intact and grand today. The new wave of immigration concerns all those Greeks in whom many young scientists have been looking for their luck in recent years. With the general attitude of young immigrants, particularly at times of unjust criticism and international dispute, they have shown that we are strong, worthy and productive as Greeks. They have shown that we have the strength and ability to be competitive, even in the most unfavourable conditions. The interconnection of Greeks abroad with the country is organic and continuously bases benefits in favour of the country and the Greeks. Connection, unity, mutual offer cannot meet geographical limitations, restrictions that were essentially unfair to our fundamental relationship, restrictions that are unnecessarily limited, especially today, because unity is the necessary stone, so that we can all achieve a substantial growth that will bring prosperity to all Greeks together. Today, therefore, the Greek Government comes and corrects this historic injustice. The Government of New Democracy demonstrates that the Greeks' word and position by means of their vote will be taken into account in the decision-making process. Our government, the Minister of Interior, Mr Takis Theodorikos, and above all our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, have given a great fight, a struggle aimed at cross-party convergence, a necessary broad consensus, so that today the result is the broad majority required. Today we are able to vote for the homosexuals to become the state's law. Our Government once again demonstrates its unifying attitude and seeks solutions through dialogue and understanding, solutions to which unity and unity of the whole nation are promoted. It is a decisive political will for the government to achieve this objective, namely to facilitate the participation of Greeks abroad in the elections, and that makes us all proud. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by pointing out that what we are doing today by voting for this bill is to strengthen Greece and Hellenism, is the milestone of our overall policy aimed at defending the interests of the entire nation, which is aimed at the unity of Hellenism over a geographical limit, which ultimately aims at the progress of the Greeks and the well-being of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u307	Mr. Melas has the floor, and then Mr. Bogdanos. Here, Mr. Mela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President. I will be brief as the time is last year and I think that most of the issues about today's very important bill that we are discussing have already been developed by colleagues. Today's sitting in this House is of historic importance. With the completion of the process today Greeks abroad are now going to have the right to participate in the elections and to be represented in the Greek Parliament. Their vote will be calculated on an equal footing with that of the Greeks of the interior. At the moment, with this bill, the government is not referring to either the few or the many but to the entire nation, where the Greek heart is beating on the globe. That is why today's debate at the National Representation is of particular value to us. That is why, at the mandate of the Prime Minister himself, the State Secretary and the Minister of Interior discussed with all the parties, in order to form the greatest possible majority of all Parliament's wings to vote on today's bill. The right of Greeks to participate abroad in the elections was first laid down in far-reaching 1862. It is a right which is enshrined and constitutionally with Articles 51 and 108 of the Constitution. In fact, the recent revision of the Constitution was also shielded by the specific procedure for the vote on the motions for resolutions and by the revision of Rule 54 of the Constitution, which was already voted on by two hundred twelve Members. The possibility that Greeks who live abroad to participate actively in the elections will not simply be a pre-election commitment of the New Democracy and Mr.Mitsotakis, which is taking place. It's a political legacy of our government coming from the past, it's about the present and it's about the future of the country. It is a self-evident obligation of the Greek state that was late in realising to our compatriots who live abroad and live outside our country. Greece has remained to date from the few developed countries of the Western world, which did not provide this opportunity for our fellow citizens. In most European countries this issue has been resolved for many years. We must also note that this change is addressed to young people, to those who have been forced in recent years of the crisis to leave abroad in search of a better future. They are the young people who progress abroad and make us proud. We must not forget them, we will not forget them and we will maintain strong ties with Greece. With this historic bill the ties of Greeks abroad with the Greeks of the interior are being strengthened and Greeks living outside again become active citizens of our country. After all, our aim and our government is to shape the proper conditions so that at some point all those who left to return to our homeland will be able to come home. And to go back to a homeland that won't fall short of what they leave behind, we make them partakers in the formation of the new Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to allow me - I am a member of the first Piraeus Region - to make a special reference to Article 6 of the bill. This article allows Greek seafarers to exercise their electoral right in the nearest part of the relevant embassy in the area they are in. Our seafarers will no longer be able to vote from the place where they are presenting their navy booklet of course. Seafarers are the people who are deprived of their families, their children, their homes. They work and hold up the flag of Greek shipping and maintain the tradition of our country at sea. We are therefore giving them the right to participate and to take part in the future of our country, even if they are in the most distant port in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to vote for Greeks abroad is not a point of party controversy. They're over and over parties. There are no micro-political controversies, and the New Democracy has demonstrated this since the start of consultation of the bill. It is about the future of our country and especially the future generations. We as parliamentarians and governments come and leave according to the will of the Greek people. After all, that is the strength and the value of parliamentary democracy, and that is why it is of great importance what we are leaving as a legacy to the next and in the future of this place. Unified Greeks with the non-Greeks with strong ties from today. Today's vote does not have a party colour but a national colour. I hope that even now, before the vote, this bill will finally be passed by the whole of the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u309	Mr Bogdanos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, homeland is taking an important step towards fulfilling one of its fundamental obligations. I should like to start by congratulating the Minister responsible for the Interior, Mr Theodorikos, because he has successfully carried out a titanic project, making very different approaches among them in a single legislative text, with internal logic and consistency, which, as far as they are concerned, will also be voted on by a large majority. I would also like to congratulate those forces of the Opposition, who have taken note of the maximum national importance of this legislative initiative and have contributed to the composition of this consensus. This is very important. I am sure that the Greek citizens at home and in response to the world will rightly judge the arguments expressed on each side in the preparation and processing of the bill and in the majority of them will recognise the constructive attitude and the sincere effort of composition, while at the same time disclosing and condemning at the same time the atom, the micro-participatory initiative and the pretexts that have arisen from them, which have been aimed at limiting the scope of the application of this legislative initiative from the outset. Ladies and gentlemen, it is huge the nation's debt toward its children, who, by living, creating, privatising abroad, never got out of their minds and hearts in Greece. In extremely difficult hours Greeks of the family have supported and continue to support pure patriotism with their mother - homeland. Today the eras of geographical exclusion, which one had to wait months to have or send news to home, have passed unreturned. Greek foreigners are being informed in real time, talking to those who are here easily, simply, in real time, visit their special homelands more regularly. What does not change, is the warmth of participation, of strengthening the symbolic and substantive ties with Greece, the need to reconfirm the timeless truth that the Greek nation is not bound by geographical constraints, the desire to guarantee equal rights and obligations for each Greek and every Greek, as the Constitution requires. In this light, this legislative initiative to be voted on is called on to function as at any time when the retreat of the national anthem at the start or end of radio broadcasting, transmitted by the middle, is a sound reminder that despite geographical distances, our ties are possible, strong, alive and for those who have migrated over recent years, seeking a better future that there are political forces that care to ensure the conditions of return and the prerogative. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek nation as a genus, as a Romanity, has been expanding for centuries and until the relatively recent past scattered across Southeast Europe, the Eastern Mediterranean and what we said in the perpetual East, from the Adriatic King Ferraios and Kapodistria, from Paradunavian Hegemonies to Odessa and Pontou, from Constantinople and Izmir to Alexandria, the martial Cyprus and the Middle East, the lands where Greek Christianity is now being slaughtered. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the years the Greeks - and I close - gathered almost half of the nation in a strip of land, in the "tamari" of Attica. But, in the history of the new state, our difficulties were spread over the planet again, in new colonies, into new blue-white communities. With this in mind, then, we are redefining institutions in critical times as a nation what we are, who we are, how many we are. We are very few, to leave out Greeks and Greeks who keep their hearts indelibly in their homeland, who struggle for the fate of Hellenism in the 21st century, fighting for the righteous and ideals of the nation. "Have the nation" means living the nation. This is precisely the aim of the positive vote in this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis is called in Stepma by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u312	So here's where when there's a will, there's a way. I think it is absolutely positive that a common place has been found. And to find a common place in all matters, mutual retreats, consensus and consent are needed. To be able to make consensus and consent, he wants political courage. The fact that today we are opening up a path of democracy and participation, so that the out-of-people can participate and have the opportunity, which they have not had in previous years, for reasons entirely specific, is not in the interests of either the Government or the Major or the Elassan Anti-Population. It is in the interests of Greece, the quality of our democracy, the participation and the ability of a modern and dynamic changing world to exploit all the forces that exist. The reasons why this possibility had not been given for forty years are absolutely obvious and we all know them. So since we all know them, we must confess to them. The old parties of 40% and 45% of the two-party movement, with the bonus of fifty seats, were not the only ones who brought the voters, to vote before the elections, but were within the parties and specific persons who did this work. And there were certain faces that came from certain fireplaces. We, therefore, because we are not this tradition, because we are not on this route, because when we were at smaller percentages, but now that we are in larger ones, we are going with principles and values, as Anti-Policy, it would be very easy to hide behind pretext denials and say no. We do not choose this path, we choose the path of responsibility, participation and co-modulation. I think that today of what we have heard from this Step is of particular importance, because in the crucial sector of Greek-Turkish, it seems that, if we do not have a political conflict, we can also have a common place in this area. It is a step forward, because yesterday we had another government, today we have this, tomorrow - tomorrow we will have a next government and it is important for the great dangers for our country to be able to understand and not to undermine each other. So those who wondered at the beginning of the government's term of office what opposition we are going to make, here we are, what opposition we are doing. Tough conflict and programme opposition to the unjust measures brought by the New Democracy for Taxation, for the middle-class, for a budget that is far below its pre-election commitments, understanding and support, when the country passes difficulties in Greek-Turkish, when international law is trampled in the region, when top issues of democracy and participation are raised. So we are also inaugurating a new period for the political system and moving forward in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and above all why you kept the time. Mr. Papachristopoulos from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u314	I think we are voting in a little while, so it is worth the effort to take another approach to the issue of the vote on redundancies. We all wear our good clothes, hear them from us that we are the best and the best of us to vote. It's human and I'm not judging it. I think everyone's trying to present the best of themselves. But I want to see this whole thing through another angle. Millions of Greeks went to foreign countries. The last wave left is over four hundred thousand, mostly young people who couldn't find a job in this country. But before, people weren't leaving because that's how he woke up and left his village or town. Greece was, is, is and remains the fillet of the planet. Some people longed for the money to go to the few and many to look for their luck somewhere else. This is another angle. I am not an expert, because I believe there are far more experts than I do to analyse in detail how there will be an atrocious real system to vote on from the public. I don't claim such laurels, and I don't think I know that. But I know this country is the fillet of the planet. And if political leaderships were really over the years, there would have been no Switzerland or any other country, because I don't know what the good countries are that are talking about. It's this country. On the occasion of the vote of the impunity I would like to remind you of a project, the "learn child" that ended with a conversation that Nikos Kalogeropoulos said to Diamantopoulou the forgived "the truth, man". Some people for years with Marshall plans, with... they were enriching a few families and giving crumbs to the cosmadic who was leaving to go abroad to other homelands. It is a unique opportunity, then, to honor these people in the best possible way. I do not want to say any more, because I think it is time to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u315	Please come to Stepma, Mr. Spanakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u316	Ladies and gentlemen, we are just a few minutes before the adoption of a law which, through fifty-four articles, is called upon to meet a request for more than forty-five years. We have closed a request for for forty-five years and it is not about facilitating the Greeks who live abroad. It was necessary for this to happen, it was about the Greek state's obligation. Minister, it is a good start and I think it is worth a lot of congratulations, both to all the people who have worked all this time, to bring that result. It's a framework law. We know we're not satisfied with the homogeneity to the extent that he'd like. But we wanted today to raise the Greek flag and Parliament with three hundred votes to vote on this bill. Unfortunately, a party will not vote on it from what we are aware of. But we're going to do a great job. This is a pre-election commitment by the New Democracy to the vote on the results, which is now taking place. We're making legislation tomorrow. We are making Greece a truly European state. It's a law overstated. We send a message with this law to all Greeks abroad that Greece is finally changing. Because with unity, we can build a different relationship between state and citizen. It is not a matter of party, it is a matter of democracy, it is a matter of nationalism. Our love for our country unites us, and I think that today we are all going to be winners by voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Drizzas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many words, beautiful words, words that create enthusiasm, but which, forty-five years, are too much to justify the fact that the country has been governed, that they have done nothing about what they currently consider to be a top national issue. So let's lower the tons. The hypocrisy to be covered wants very high meanings, but they're made. And this is understood first of all by Greek residents abroad, Greeks and Greeks. Why has the question not been asked whether they have a right or not? Demetris said Vitsas was talking in the 21st century about the right of blood. In any case, however, that exists. And so everyone has the right to vote. The issue is the process of democratic conquests itself, which is the top issue of voting, to what extent? In a symbolism? How one society is organised and how it chooses to be governed is about how one problem is solved or the other, how it faces work, how it faces culture, how it faces the environment, how it faces the production process, how it tackles, in any case, the vital issues of a living and refreshing society. The vote, therefore, is about how a government is elected to rule on the basis of this society. It takes too much wisdom to realize that the beneficiary does not need "symbolisms" to have the right to be Greek. He's a Greek, no one needs to confirm it. She's a Greek woman. The question is whether he will elect a government to implement this or the other problem that determines his or her life, this is the quintusia of the election race. And there it is really not possible to raise issues different from what the SYRIZA government actually put in the previous period and we are now defending ourselves in the most rational way. I put the question close to all this: The right to vote because you have only included it in this final, miserable way, which we will accept, but, in any case, is not a representation of Greeks and Greeks abroad? It's not. While our own proposal in an authentic way and in a real representation secures the right to be elected. If, then, the homogeneity, if the Greeks and Greeks abroad have something to gain, beyond the upgrading, the tightening up of relations with their homeland, with Greece, which is really important, beyond the offer they can have to send their own messages from their own experience, from their own experiences, from their own experiences, from their own agitation with other cultures in the countries that live, how do we achieve this without representation? And what exactly is the big one? The globes to alter the will of the Greeks internally or really the right to have Greeks and Greeks of the foreign identity capable of sending messages from abroad and forming an interaction relationship with the interior? So these are two really different approaches that one respects Greek women and Greeks abroad, and the other once again wants to manipulate consciences and exploit and exploit people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u319	And the circle of speakers with the last speaker, Mr Katrin from the Change Movement, closes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u320	Ladies and gentlemen, last speaker at a historic meeting of the Greek Parliament, because the cross-party agreement on the right to vote for the migrants was an unfulfilled debt to the Greek citizens who live and work outside the country's borders, but they maintain strong ties and interest in the country, which has always been and is the point of reference for them. It is a pity, therefore, that we are today driving bypassing any individual disagreements we have had in voting for such a law which has been pending for eighteen years and I would say that the catalyst of this development is the great wave of immigration from our country during the decade of the crisis. A wave that turned Greece back into a country of expedition of migrants after a period that was - and remains today - a country mostly hosting migrants. It is crucial, then, to send a message to the generation of Brain Drain and this way - but not only to him - that their homeland has not turned their backs on them, but that it broadens the community's policy and external borders to fit their own struggles and experiences and their own proposals to overcome many of the factors that forced them to emigrate outside the country. However, apart from the recent generation of Brain Drain, there are even older generations of impoverished people who have close ties with our homeland, but also other categories of compatriots, such as students, diplomatic officials, military workers, who are serving in international organisations, but also those who, unfortunately, have not been able to travel to elections. It was, therefore, an injustice that had to be restored, because we were indeed one of the few European countries that had not given this right to their victims. It is also very important, ladies and gentlemen, that, following a proposal put forward by the Change Movement, at least one of the parties' State-owned lists is included within their first three positions and so we will finally welcome the first emigrant Members to the Greek Parliament after the next elections and will be a great moment for Hellenism. Because it is not enough for the citizens to have the right to vote, but they must also have the right to vote. And I think that with this provision in the bill, which was accepted by the parties, a good start is being made in this direction. The arguments that said that the democrats have no knowledge of the Greek reality and therefore poorly should have the opportunity to vote are lacking in any logic. Because the subject, ladies and gentlemen, was not who has knowledge of the Greek reality, but who has the money to travel and come to Greece to vote. And, of course, in the era of the global digital community, access to information and information is - and must be - equal to all, whether they are within borders or outside the world. On this occasion, I would also like to address my emigrant compatriots from Elias with a message that their own contribution to development and the great change that the place needs is decisive. We can now. together through the global digital communities of political consultation to create a dialogue forum so that their voices can really be measured and transferred to the decision-making centres. Ladies and gentlemen, it is crucial that our place should be reconnected with its children. Because our Parliament must be truly and essentially the House of all Greek citizens and not just the Greek citizens who live in Greece. And I am glad that in this festive way, with a overwhelming majority, the Greek Parliament today gives the passport, opens the door to the Greeks in order to be able to reconcile the decisions on our country with their views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u321	The Minister for the Interior has the floor, Mr Theodorikos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u322	It's late. I just want to thank the House for the debate, which I think has taken place in very civilised tones and after an effort it has kept for three to four months and I think today is a very good time for the Greek Parliament, for the Greek political system. Shortly with the vote we will send a strong message of national unity, unity of all Greeks, unity of the Greeks, which, with the bill that we are voting on today, will be able to vote from the next elections to the place where they live. Thank you very much for this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and the amendment of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior is adjourned: "A facilitation of the exercise of the electoral right of voters who are outside the Greek territory and the amendment of the electoral procedure". In accordance with Rule 72(1)(c) of the Rules of Procedure, a roll-call vote shall be taken on Articles 1 to 24 of the Rules of Procedure, on the nominee article and on the entire bill, for which a majority is required, in accordance with Article 51(4) of the Constitution. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u324	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote in principle, on Articles 1 to 24, on the nominee article and on the draft law of the Ministry of Interior. Here we are making a legitimate derogation from what is laid down in your Rules to facilitate, so that the roll-call vote on the principle and on the articles is not taken first, then that the articles which do not need a roll-call vote should be voted on, so that you do not go in, and at the end of the day we can come back to the whole. Does the House therefore agree that the procedure should be done as we have said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u325	The House has agreed. We would therefore point out that, after the proposal has been accepted, the vote includes the beginning of twenty-four articles, the hotel room and the whole. Each time on the screen they will appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you have to roll your screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. You must make sure that you have voted for all twenty-seven areas included in the vote. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. We would remind the rapporteurs and special speakers of the draft law to remain in the Chamber after the roll-call vote was completed to vote for the other articles in the bill. I would ask that the roll-call system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u326	I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be recorded in the electronic system and taken into account in the count which will be followed. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u327	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a letter from Mr Ioannis Mouszala, who informs us that he will not be present in today's roll-call vote and is aware of his intention to vote. This letter, which expresses the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but is not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u328	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u329	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 296 Members voted at the beginning of the bill. 'NAH' voted 288 MPs. 7 MPs voted. A Member of Parliament voted. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Under Rule 1, as it stands, 296 Members voted in total. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Article 1 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 2, as amended, has adopted a total of 296 Members. 'NAH' voted 288 MPs. 7 MPs voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. As it stands, 296 Members voted in total. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Article 3 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. As it stands, they voted for a total of 296 Members. 'NAI' 206 MPs voted. 7 MPs voted. 'Paris' voted 83 MPs. Article 4 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Under Rule 5, as it stands, 296 Members voted in total. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Article 5 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Under Rule 6, as it stands, 296 Members voted in total. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Article 6, therefore, was accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 7, as it stands, has adopted a total of 296 Members. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Therefore, Article 7 was accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Under Rule 8, as it stands, 296 Members voted in total. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Therefore, Article 8 was accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 9, as it stands, has voted for a total of 296 Members. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Article 9, therefore, was accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 10, as it stands, has voted for a total of 296 Members. 'NAH' voted 288 MPs. 7 MPs voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Article 10, therefore, was accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 11, as it stands, has voted for a total of 296 Members. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Article 11 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 12, as it stands, has voted for a total of 296 Members. 'NAH' voted 288 MPs. No one voted. 'Communities' voted 8 MPs. Article 12 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 13, as it stands, has adopted a total of 296 Members. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Therefore, Article 13 was accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 14, as it stands, has voted for a total of 296 Members. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Article 14 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 15, as it stands, has adopted a total of 296 Members. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Therefore, Article 15 was accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 16, as it stands, has voted for a total of 296 Members. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Article 16, therefore, was accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 17, as it stands, has voted for a total of 296 Members. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Article 17 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 18, as it stands, has adopted 296 Members. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Therefore, Article 18 was accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 19, as it stands, has voted for a total of 296 Members. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Article 19 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Under Rule 20, as it stands, 296 Members voted in total. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Article 20, therefore, was accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 21, as it stands, has adopted a total of 296 Members. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Article 21 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Under Rule 22, as it stands, 296 Members voted in total. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Therefore, Article 22 was accepted, as it stands, by a majority. In accordance with Rule 23, they voted as a whole 296 Members. 'NAI' voted 295 MPs. No one voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Therefore, Article 23 was accepted, as it stands, by a majority. In accordance with Rule 24, as it stands, 296 Members voted in total. 'NAH' voted 288 MPs. 7 MPs voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Therefore, Article 24 was accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, because we have changed the order, we shall now be talking about the farewell article. As such, they voted for a total of 296 Members. 'NAH' voted 288 MPs. 7 MPs voted. A Member of Parliament voted. Therefore, the Court of First Instance has been accepted, as it stands, by a majority. A total of 295 Members voted on the bill. 'NAH' voted 288 MPs. 'OH' 6 MPs voted. A Member of Parliament voted. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority of the majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u330	After the conclusion of the roll-call vote, we shall proceed to the vote on the remaining articles. The vote will again be taken electronically by the rapporteurs and special speakers of the bill. I would like to point out that the vote includes the remaining twenty-nine articles in the bill. Make sure you have voted for all the articles. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened. Please beg the rapporteurs and the special speakers to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u331	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u332	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system and appear on the screens of the Chamber, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u333	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: ‘A facilitation of the exercise of the electoral right of voters outside the Greek territory and an amendment to the electoral procedure’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u334	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u335	The House has given the mandate requested. Today is a historic day, Mr Katrugale, Mr President-in-Office, both for Hellenism and for Parliament, because such legislations are rarely passed and we hope they will also exist in the future. So it takes an institutional omission of the state today. Congratulations to you, to the rapporteurs and to all parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u336	And the officials of this House, the people here who have been supporting our work since this morning. We thank them very much and wish them well, with strength and health.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-11-S1-commons.u337	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
