ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 15 to 2019, the minutes of its J-Ministerial Conference of Monday 15 April 2019 concerning the vote in the whole draft law ‘I’ were confirmed by the Bureau. Proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the Agreement in the form of an exchange of letters concerning the provisional application of the Protocol establishing the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Government of the Republic of Senegal on fishing off the coast of Senegal. Harmonization of the VAT Code Directive (EU) 2016/1065, III. Incorporation of points 1, 2, 4 and 5 of Article 2 and Articles 4, 4, 6, 7 and 8 of Directive 1164/2016, IV. Adopted by the Commission on 17 December. Regulations (EC) No 2971/2001 and (EC) No 2971/2001.']] Before entering the plenary agenda, a reference will be made to the memory of the memorable colleague and former President of the Chamber of Demetrios Sioufa. In order to honour his memory, I will refer to the Bureau of Parliament. They will be given the floor by a few fellow Members, one of each parliamentary group and one of the independent Members. And in the end, a minute of silence will be observed in his memory. Mr President of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, where I speak to you today, a few years ago there was a rare man and a precious friend for everyone. So today I have the honour and also the emotionally difficult task of addressing, on behalf of the Bureau of Parliament, a few words about Dimitris Sioufas. Dimitris who left from us in the beginning of the year was the incarnation of man's uncircumcised effort for a better life, for him and for those around him. Groomed with love for the commons and the people and endowed with perseverance and appetite for work Dimitris Sioufas had both the dreams and the power to do them. He studied, worked, spent, solely on what he had formulated so well: "No important work of politics is worthy, nor can it be inspired, planned, programmed, implemented, and above all, to maintain and thrive, if it is not done with care for many, with hardships by many, in order to become social conquest of all and with mind in the next generations." From the Greek Tower Karditsas where he was born, he was found in the dorms of Panteios and the Law School of Aristotle. And from 1981 to the end of his life he found himself willingly found himself in every conspiracy, where he felt he could offer. As is well known, Dimitris was President of the Parliament's Foundation for Parliamentarianism and Democracy and Honorary Chairman of the National Institute for Research and Studies "Eleftherios K. Venizelos". He was President of the Greek Parliament during the period 2007-2009, while during his term of office at the Ministry of Development and Health and Welfare and Social Security he completed important areas such as the establishment of the EOMMEH, the operation of the "Onasea", the establishment of a lifelong pension for multiple mothers. At the same time, he proceeded with the founding of the University Hospitals of Thessaly and the Western Habitats of Thessaloniki, while he proved rich legislative work with the top legislation of 2084 of 1992 on the resolution and reform of our country's insurance system, which laid new foundations for equality in life, participation and protection of the citizen, a work of qualitatively and quantitatively rich, an uninterrupted effort for this something better in our country, a path based on feeling and strong in deep knowledge and experience. This is Dimitris Sifa's deposit for the next generations. He once said in a speech that "the supreme honor for a politician is the duration and usefulness of his work. This is usually considered right after he left politics and life, when the memory of the politician comes along with gratitude for his work, and that history shows that it is rare, very rare.” Personally, I believe - and I feel you will all agree - that Dimitris has won this supreme price. His work proved alive and fertile. Its offering and morality are manifested as material ignorant and rare, but also ready to give new fruit to the generations that come. In view of all this in mind and the heart, we choose to honor him in this simple way today and forever, that is to say, to continue to move on to today's difficult political paths with courage, fantasy, with power and honesty, guided by our common visions and dreams of a people who now need us more than ever. Your memory eternity, my dear friend. The first speaker from SYRIZA will be my colleague, Aphrodite Theopevtou, the Secretary-General of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Here, Mrs Theophevettus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are commemorating the memory of our chosen colleague Dimitris Sioufas who left us a while ago. On behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and I personally express my warmest condolences to both his and the New Democracy Party. The President before, the rivals, colleagues and friends of Dimitris Sioufas take advantage of the quality and stability of his long political course and also of the particular aspects of the personality of the deceased, a long-established career of three decades, characterized by morality, seriousness and sobriety. Elected MP in his special homeland, Karditsa, and then moved the supreme parliamentary, party and political positions, which he served consistently and devotion, with the sole aim of collective interest: Parliamentary Representative, State Secretary, Minister for Political Design, member of the Political Council, Secretary of Parliamentary Group and finally, President of the Parliament. As President of the National Representation, he performed his duties exemplaryly and impartially, promoting parliamentarianism and democracy, as he did as President of the Foundation of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Dimitris Sifas was an example of personal ethos and political consistency, leaving his own footprint in the history of parliamentaryism and a significant political and legislative work. He expressed a special political culture, gaining respect even for his political opponents. So, by honouring his memory, we must assimilate these lessons of democracy that he taught us with collective work, moderation and sobriety, values which contribute to the public speech and which we today have a great need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u3	His co-rapporteur, Secretary-General of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u4	Mr President of the Hellenic Republic, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to speak from this Step towards a great parliamentary and political personality, the late Dimitris Sioufas, the political man who started by the Greek Tower of the mountain Karditsa and erased a long political journey to leave his print in the public life of our country with his initiatives. Even as a Member of the State in the last period of his parliamentary term Dimitris Sifas remained a MP Karditsa. Politician with deep knowledge of the problems of the county, he always chose to describe the multifaceted potential of our region and create real opportunities for tomorrow in our special homeland. He did not see political mystics, instead he looked farther away from the on-the-day impressions that political opportunism often created. In his confrontation with the political challenges Dimitris Sioufas raised his political stature and conquered his own separate place in the pantheon of the great personalities that our country, Karditsa, gave birth to. On his long political journey he succeeded in serving alongside two Prime Ministers, Constantine Mitsotakis and Kostas Karamanlis, honoring his trust in his skills and efficiency, both in the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Social Security and in the Ministry of Development. In times of difficulty, when politicians avoided responsibility, Dimitris Sioufas never feared the challenges. He did not hesitate to confront and eventually defeat populism and demagogy. That is why history has already recognized to Dimitris Sioufas the legislative initiatives that saved our many insurance systems in 1992. After all, this had to do as a political man who never lost the great picture, a politician who knew the potential of Greece and, on the one hand, recognized a wider geopolitical role in our country. After all, through this perspective, Dimitris Sioufas looked at the opportunities that were prescribed by the pipeline diplomacy and managed to promote for Greece a particularly crucial role in the energy adequacy but also, of course, in the energy security of Western Europe. With a broad perception of the diplomatic chess board, Dimitris Sioufas managed to strengthen the country's international position and from the position of the President of the Parliament, highlighting the international image of Greece as a womb to parliamentism and modern democracy. From the high parliamentary post he managed to broaden Parliament's institutional role and highlight the institutional mandate of the Greek Parliament. With his initiatives he transformed the Greek Parliament from an observer of international policy to an active player. Parliamentary diplomacy - those of us, at least, who have been serving the Greek Parliament for many years - has been inextricably associated with the name of Eupatridis Dimitris Sioufas. Dimitris Sioufas also changed the internal image of the Parliament, with targeted interventions in the decoration of the building and with a great renovation that highlighted the rich historicality of the building of the Parliament. Most deeply political, Dimitris Sifas has always supported his political action in two pillars, in the citizens and in the institutions of our civilisation. It is no coincidence that Dimitris Soufas is the initiative to set up the Consumers' Counsellor, as one of the main independent authorities, which, on the one hand, protect citizens and, on the other, ensure the quality of our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, Dimitris Sifas has dealt with himself in very busy times. But despite the passions and acute controversies of the time, he had political maturity never turned political controversy into personal controversy. On the other hand, he systematically worked on all the positions he held to create wider consensus, to create conditions that favoured understanding and gave room for the cooperation of the political forces. For the younger generations Dimitris Sifas stood a true teacher. The Carditians owe him a lot. The Greeks all owe him much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u5	Before I invite the spokesman of the Democratic Incorporation, E Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Dimitrios Kremastinos, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the Parliament is organised and how students and their educational attendants from the Elementary School of Firas Thera. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to inform the children who are following from the upper Western theory that today is a political memorial to the memory of former President of the Chamber of Demetrios Sioufa. So this memorial ceremony is being watched and we welcome you to the House. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u6	Your Honor, Mr President of the Hellenic Republic, death is a common human lot, but life is not a common one. The life, like the personality of each man, is unique and unequivocal. Her loss leaves an unpaid gap, especially in certain, specific cases, in those that belong to people like Dimitris Soufas. Dimitris Soufas met him as Minister of Health, Welfare and Social Security. I even succeeded him as a non-parliamentary minister in the same Ministry, when the social security sector belonged to the Ministry of Health. I have seen from this position that his policy, and in particular for the insurance funds, has been salvaged. There I found that the measures taken and criticised by the opposition at the time, although non-popular, were essential and necessary for the survival of the insurance funds. That's why I kept them. These measures enabled insurance funds to survive until the time of the economic crisis. Generally, his passage from the Ministry of Health, Welfare, Social Security and Development left his mark, which was certainly very successful. Dimitris Sifas was a mere man of substance and not a person of the show, especially of the television, a disease that is suffering and suffering from today's political life and from which it seems to be very difficult to get rid of. Dimitris Sifas was a man of measure rather than of exaggeration, which had to dedicate today's politicians. Generally, from the positions of the Ministries which served as Minister, but also as President of the House showed the same wisdom and soundness. After all, that is why the state has honored him with so much discrimination. Today, the House needs young people like Dimitris Sioufas in all parties. Unfortunately, they are rare. Such people are necessary in order to make the parliamentary community stronger, to serve the essence of democracy. We express our warmest condolences to the family of Dimitris Sioufas from the Change Movement and especially from its President, Mrs. Gennimatas. His memory will remain indelible to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u7	On behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr George Lambroulis, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Hellenic Republic, ladies and gentlemen, Dimitris Sioufas, born at the Greek Tower Karditsas, was first elected MP with the party that belonged to New Democracy in 1981. Since then, he was elected inconsistently by 2012, so he left active political action. During this long journey he became a leading executive of his party, which served from various positions in the Parliament and the Governments of the New Democracy. During this entire course it was typical of how he faced political controversy both inside and outside the House. He listened to his interlocutors and sought to defend his views with arguments and thus make political confrontation on the substance. In the period 2007-2009, which was President of the Parliament, he had to deal with difficult issues that were raised at the time. He handled these cases, avoiding tactics and surprises, both in the legislative process and in the other parliamentary procedures. More generally, we can note that it has contributed not to lose the essence of political controversy as far as possible. With these brief thoughts, we would like once again to express our sincere condolences to his family and to his party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u9	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Ioannis Saridis will speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Your Excellency, Mr President of the Hellenic Republic, Mr President of the Greek Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, today we are honouring the memory of Dimitris Sioufas. I, too, would like to express the respect of the Central Association, respect for Vassilis Leventis, but also my personal respect for a political man whose course was just described by this word, the word'respect'. There was a man who respected the ant. Therefore, it was very reasonable for the Greeks to continue with his memory and name, as he followed him throughout his political and personal course. I have not had the opportunity to meet this man or work alongside him, like many other colleagues in this Chamber. However, as the stories about the labour and courageous Dimitris Sioufa never ceased to be heard in the Chambers of Parliament, in the halls of the House, I will try to cope with this difficult task and speak about him on the basis of the image that his politicians have, but also his political friends. Everyone always speaks with respect for Dimitrios Soufas. They refer to his actions whenever he needs an example of love for his homeland, of faith in the Hellenic Republic, of justice in making decisions, of realism and of managing difficult cases and situations. He was always ready to take responsibility personally, always well-informed and with a global view of things, ready to work without stopping and offering solutions for the good of the country, for the good of democracy. It put priorities that today are lacking from the political life of the country, as above all, the unity of the Greeks, above all, the Hellenic Republic. He never accepted personal attacks and blows under the belt as part of the political controversy. On the contrary, it is well known that it has worked hard to understand the institutional value of respecting the limits of the logic and decency of respect for democracy and Parliament. Before I come down from the Step, I would like to make a special reference to his work on strengthening the institution of the Parliamentary Republic of our country. As a member of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, I have often found the name Dimitris Sioufas before me, always for good and always for things that may not have been learned and only the parliamentarians knew and people did not know about. Dimitris Sifas did things for his homeland that most Greeks might not know at this time. It is well known to most parliamentarians that from the office of President of the Parliament he returned as unacceptable the first letter received by the then President of the Parliament of Skopje, in which the name “Democracy of Macedonia” was written. We need to know what we can do more than we can and convey his lessons to today, possibly to the service of future generations for which Dimitris Sifas has worked so hard. So efficiently worked on Dimitris Sifas. His memory is eternity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u11	On behalf of the Group of Independent Members, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos will be speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Your Excellency, Mr President of the Hellenic Republic, Mr President of the House, ladies and gentlemen, Dimitris Sioufas was a model politician. I was lucky to meet him at the Conferences of Presidents at the Foundation of the Parliament, where I participated as Vice-President of the Parliament for one year. My impression was that his aspiration, his character, the way he listened to us younger MPs, our ideas and always had a good reason to say creative. His mind has always been in favour of finding solutions for Parliament, which will help democracy and ourselves. His course was characterized by consistency, agonism for his ideas and principles. During his long political career, as a MP, Minister and President of the Greek Parliament, he served with consistency and dynamism the ideas he had given. He became eminent in leading institutional positions from which he worked conscientiously for the principles of democracy and parliamentaryism. Potential and effective with vision for the place sealed the country's public life with its policy. Born in Karditsa in the difficult years of the 1940s, he went with high morality, honesty and dignity. His call and love for the law and the principles of justice, equality and human rights led him to study in legal science. But beyond that, he zealously served the fighting policy. He was a champion of the modern democratic process of Greece with works and not with words. Elected MP for the first time in 1981 in Karditsa, with his favorite party, which served honestly for many decades, New Democracy. He immediately distinguished himself for his policy of oxidation, adherence and rhetorical ability. He exhibited an active and always consistent presence in the Greek Parliament and performed his duties exemplarily as President of the Parliament. His long-standing political career and office in public office highlighted his fighting and deep commitment to ideas, to the end. In his course he has always been guided by the sense of public duty, of national utility, principles which are likely to be lacking today by many of us. Man free, fighter and ideologist, he had passion, but also sincerely intend to serve democracy with his ideas. And it is today that we need people, but at the same time more than ever, politicians who in their lives will propose us and not myself and who during our life our work, our validity, without Dimitrios Soufas, will always be guided by the benefit of the social system, the rule of law and the Hellenic Republic. It was a genuinely fragile politician. He taught that political struggles are won in a team spirit and proved that the size of politics is measured, not by their social cognitiveness and ability or image, but by their boldness, their consistency and efficiency, which they actually show. His imposing presence in political meditation, but also in our country's political life, is a constant point of reference for all of us and a constant reminder of the great void that left us. Dimitris Sifas left early. But he has been able to offer much in our political life. The speeches today prove it awkward. It will remain in the history of the place as a model of person, ethos and political consistency. The farewell to a retarded spiritual personality that honored politics, science and legal culture is not an easy task for any of us and the words of all of us are poor and helpless to describe the stature and dimensions of his personality and his contribution, which we see every day in Parliament's legislative work. To his wife, his children, in the great family of New Democracy, I feel the need to express my sincere condolences, always accompanied by his remembrance. He deserves his life, his memory forever! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u13	Today's event will be closed with a brief position of the President of Parliament, Nicholas Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u14	Mr President of the Hellenic Republic, I asked for the floor outside the order that had been set, because I feel the need, but also the obligation to refer to the fingerprint left by Dimitris Siufas during the last four years, which was not with us on these benches. And I should like to mention, because in fact, with admiration and obligation to the political man, I felt this presence, these four years, until the last minute. Dimitris Soufas has been present in the House for the entire four years. I tell you straight away that I felt him next to me at every event, publication, conference, event with the directors of the House. He gave his own deposit and file to the House Library in time, as everyone who has passed through these posts should have done. Mostly, however, this four-year period, without a sign of rivalry, but always with a positive sign. He was also present at the Foundation's boards for Parliament and the Republic, with proposals which were generally accepted for the implementation of the programme, as well as other former Presidents of the Parliament. I feel, therefore, that I need to make this statement, because it really is a positive deposit, and I would say that it is something that is very important for its own extradition, for democracy, for the political system and for Parliament itself. I'm glad I sat in the same seat that Dimitris was in these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I would now ask you to keep a minute of silence in the memory of Dimitrios Soufas. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] I would like to inform the House that at this point we will be interrupting until 10.30 p.m. where we will continue with the legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory of thirty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of St. Theodoros. Welcome to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Greek Development Bank and the attraction of strategic investments and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 11 April 2019 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, single on principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u18	The House unanimously agreed. There are three ministerial amendments. The two have already been incorporated into the bill since the debate in committee. There is one third that Mr Tsakalotos will sometime come to present and defend. The State Secretary for the Army is here, although his amendment has been incorporated - and he is polite - if a colleague from the rapporteurs wants to ask him some clarification. It is the amendment: 'Regulating the topics of the Ministry of Culture and Sport'. As far as I can see, there's no colleague. Mr. Army, do you want the floor for five minutes to shut you down?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u19	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u20	Here, Mr Secretary, you have the floor for some additional placement, even though this is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u21	First of all, we must say that today is a clear day for global civilization, for the whole of mankind. When a monument of world heritage is injured, such as what was suffered last night by the Virgin Mary of Paris, words are not enough to express the extent of destruction. Within a few hours centuries of history has been lost. The first concern at this stage is to protect the monument that, unfortunately, remains inconsistent after the fire yesterday and immediately thereafter, of course, to start the study and the restoration work. Our country is willing and ready to contribute in any way deemed beneficial. Of course, we also support the French people. The amendment proposed by the Ministry of Culture concerns the crucial issue of the organization and coordination of the preservation of the archaeological sites, monuments and museums of the country. In the organogram of the Ministry of Culture of 2018, a "Head of Security Office" was added and for the first time a position was established that existed, but there was never institutionally, the position of the sergeant. Given that these positions are not positions of responsibility, the provisions of the Civil Service Code on the choice of staff cannot be applied directly. Therefore, by replacing an informal selection process directly from the political leadership, we are introducing a regulation that brings merit and transparency, by applying the data provided by the Staff Code for the selection of this staff. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u22	First of all, on behalf of the Bureau representing the whole House, we endorse what the Secretary-General said about the cultural destruction that took place yesterday in the Virgin Mary of Paris. The Greek Parliament expresses its full support for our colleagues in the French Parliament and of course also for the French people. Mr George Ursouzidis, SYRIZA's general rapporteur, has the floor. The list opens up for those colleagues who want to write electronics. The system will be closed as soon as Mr Katsafada, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, comes down from the Step. Mr. Ursuzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot make a reference to the tragic event that took place in Paris in a monument of world cultural heritage. It was incomprehensible what happened to deliver to the flames the place of the historic city of Paris, which is changing definitively. I can only express my grief and solidarity with the French people. I'm coming to the bill now. The first part of the bill concerns the establishment of the Greek Development Bank. The unprecedented crisis, far from the worst in a period of peace experienced by the country in the last decade, has adversely affected the ability to borrow credit institutions, thus minimising the possibilities of borrowing for Greek businesses, much less the cheap borrowing. In short, the necessary oxygen was missing from the economy. This has, of course, helped reduce the incomes of citizens, reduce the savings of households, namely the depositary base. This has also contributed to the increase in the number of non-performing loans, which has also resulted in the crisis. The above inevitably led to much stricter criteria for loans, which are the main problem in exploiting the production potential of the country, especially in the region. It has therefore led to the rapid increase in unemployment and, of course, to the erosion of social cohesion. Under these circumstances and despite the improvement in recent years, the State has been called upon to respond to the urgent need to finance the real economy. The establishment of a modern development agency, such as the Greek Development Bank, is an intersection for the domestic financial system aimed at developing the economy. We're not originalizing. Greece is the only country in the European Union that does not have a similar institution. The demand for an institution capable of effectively supporting its needs and initiatives by Greek businesses is more than obvious. Since 1816 in Europe, since 1855 in America, in 1947 in Asia and in Africa, public development banks have been operating in Africa, supporting business and local economies. It is noted that in 2016 there were some five hundred national development banks worldwide, including forty-nine in Europe. The bill sets out the framework for the operation of the Greek Development Bank in our country. The Greek Development Bank will come from the development of the company "National Entrepreneurship and Development Fund", the well-known "EEEAN SA". Also, this bill turns the Greek Development Bank in a financial institution with a clear developmental direction and advisory role. The main aim of the Bank is to support the productive system, with a view to promoting sustainable development of the economy at national level, as well as to select the projects it will finance. It will not take account of financial returns closely, but of the overall development benefits that such projects will produce at national level. Undoubtedly, among the needs of the Greek companies, access to funding is the most crucial condition for their sustainable development, especially in periods such as the one we are experiencing. A few words now about the targets, codified. The Greek Development Bank will operate as an anonymous company. It will have annexes in all regions of the country. She'll be self-financed. The funds will come from the NSRF, the banking system and private investors. It will not provide direct financing to businesses, but through the banking system. It will also provide consultancy services to businesses, something absolutely necessary. Its operations consist mainly of the conclusion of financing contracts through the provision of loans. I now come to the second part of the bill, which is about attracting strategic investment. The bill moves towards growth on three components: economic, social and environmental, which has been identified as a national development strategy, with emphasis on industrial development and adaptation to the advanced knowledge economy. That is why the existing institutional framework for attracting strategic investments is being revised in order to adapt to the new data, as the previous plan, in the context of a crisis situation in the last decade, obviously - as expected - failed. The new institutional framework therefore becomes more attractive and effective for investors, offering a wide range of benefits to attract strategic investments in all sectors of the economy. It ensures a secure, transparent and rapid process for investors. Only then is the public interest really shielded, supporting entrepreneurship and raising a safe investment environment, which has been missing for too many years. The existing Law 3894/2010 worked in the logic of providing incentives solely on the basis of the subordination limits. This approach has had poor results, as it has only been directed essentially at investments in tourism, mall and some investments in energy. As a result of the allegations, this did not produce the desired results. Despite its amendments, it will never be effective in attracting investment. It is characteristic that, during the eight years of its implementation, only fifteen investment projects have been subjected to without any of them being implemented to date. I think that is enough in itself to describe the reality and the need for change and a new page. The distinction of the categories in the proposed law was based on the assessment of the poor results of the previous law. For this reason, a targeted breakdown by investment sector has been chosen. The ambiguity of the previous framework on tax incentives, which have never been specified, nor have they been awarded to an investment since the provision in question has proved to be impracticable, has not attracted any productive investment in the industry, research or development, which is a priority for the national development strategy, which we are all working on. What are we doing with the new institutional framework? We are trying to broaden the sectors that will be interested in getting into strategic investment, particularly in industry, research and development. We're strengthening the motives. We give a lot more tax incentives, quick depreciation, overdepreciation and brave grant. Therefore, we are broadening the range of companies that might be potentially interested. We are introducing digital consultation, which is in the common interest of both investors and the public. Transparency guarantees full information to the investor, but also to the public. We introduce the concept of 'independent auditor', i.e. we monitor the investment, and before taking the designation as'strategic investment', they were promoted for rapid licensing, but no one was following the implementation of the investment that was ultimately the case and was directly concerned with the public interest. The term ‘strategic investment’ allows property in the wider public sector to benefit from capital gains resulting from the designation. To address the failures of the previous institutional framework and to adapt to the needs of the national economy in the post-mortem period, the proposed draft law introduces a series of innovations aimed at attracting investment. The question was, and remains, transparency, speed and efficiency which must at last be done in our home country for investors, but also for the administration that oversees it. The Interministerial Committee on Strategic Investment - ITS - decides whether or not to subject the investment project concerned to one of the categories of strategic investment. Strategic investments are categorised according to the incentives given to them, which are now much stronger and, above all, varied, offering a wide range of benefits to investors with a specific target. The incentives offered in the new framework - which I shall also briefly mention - are the following: EXTERNALS, the Special Spatial Investment Development Plans, a tool necessary. Rapid licensing. Fixed tax scheme. Extended tax incentives, such as tax exemption for specific categories of investments above the limits of development law or such as accelerated amortisation. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENDITURE OF THE ‘ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL AREA’ POLICY AREA Favourable taxation for business executives. Alternative forms of dispute resolution and arbitration. In other words, what the investor and the economy of the country needed, which was seen in the years of the crisis, was exactly what the investor and the country's economy needed. Aid to enterprises in disadvantaged areas of the country was absolutely necessary and is provided for in the draft law. The procedure for payment of aid will follow the de minimis rule, i.e. up to EUR 200 000 for two or three years. The submission of the supporting documents will take effect from May 2019. The selection criteria are also set for the regions to be strengthened and we have the task of hierarchy of the regions of the country in order to be able to develop them. It includes the collection and processing of data enabling the imaging of the multi-dimensional concept of local prosperity and the emergence of spatial inequalities. For this reason, the variables used are divided into three central categories: economy, education and demographic characteristics. With these criteria, then, there is a possibility of helping those regions, which have really not been able to withstand the years of the crisis, and we have to look at them in the light of the criteria I have outlined. Finally, I have to make a reference to the notorious Article 40, which relates to the investments which have been implemented, but it has not been possible to complete that part concerning the false, misleading or defective elements of undertakings. These are documents where the unlegal value is less than a million. Today there is no limit, that is, there can be much more. The second is aid for non-legal value, which must be less than 10% of the total aid. Today is 25%. There is also a penalty that is twice the amount of aid resulting from false or misleading information. Before there was no penalty. So when investors have completed the investment and paid the same share, then in these cases instead of offending, i.e. extermination, we will enable them to have a penalty of 10% to 30% of the amount approved. In detail, the cases that exist and how they are dealt with are mentioned in the draft law. However, what is the substance of the change relates to the following: if they were submitted to the service with non-legal expenditure, the non-legal value of which does not exceed one million and the aid relating to their non-legal value does not exceed 10 % of the total aid relating to the investment project, then those documents, part of their non-legal value, are not certified for the completion of the investment project and the investment project is completed by a penalty of twice the amount of aid corresponding to the non-legal value of the documents. This regulation does not include cases of false documents, except those I have mentioned. Secondly, if false misleading or silent evidence relates to the coverage of the same holding, since the same participation was legally covered and the possibility of completion of the investment is established, either the partial retention or the partial repayment of the aid, which cannot be less than 10% of the approved aid. Why is all this happening? First of all, I would like to make it clear that all cases relate to previous governments. We inherited these problems and had to deal with them. I must stress, therefore, that all cases relate to investments that were integrated into Law 3908/2011 by previous governments. Today we are either called upon to streamline sanctions or to close companies that have completed investments and are already in operation. Who, really, is sure that all invoiced transactions are accompanied by perfectly legitimate documents when there is no institutionalised control mechanism to protect them? Of course, violating investors must be punished, but not by sanctions that eliminate and cancel millions' investments and lead to workers' unemployment. Yeah, well, sanctions. Not to cancel the investments. That is the spirit of the regulation under Article 40. Only a completely unrelated to the market or a bureaucrat can claim that everywhere there is feasibility. Indeed, there are many cases, but there are also investors who have been victims of the uncontrolled situation that has prevailed in Greek reality for decades. I think that everyone who tries in Greece is aware of this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The only solution would be to electronic invoicing by direct crossing on line in all transactions. It is time to implement this necessary regulation. It is a question of proper legislation, the application of the spirit of the market to the provisions of the law, the restoration of citizens' confidence in the administration. That's the goal, not just of this bill. Finally, Mr President, I would like to table an amendment which has not been debated in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u24	Are you referring to a parliamentary amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u25	No, I'm talking about...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u26	Because the two of the ministers were discussed and integrated and it is one that will be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u27	I repeat, Mr President, that the amendment tabled by the Association of public limited companies was not included by mistake. In short, it concerns the paradoxicality of exempting from the special tax on immovable property from the domestic public-owned establishment which is supervised by a public authority and of not exempting the public-owned limited company with registered to natural persons because part of its shares are held by a public-owned establishment, for which it does not, of course, mean the denomination of natural persons. That is the substance of the amendment. I'll testify to her and she's in the company of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u28	Who has testified it, Mr. Comrade, and who is it from? Because I don't see anything here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u29	So I will testify to it and it is in the interest of my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u30	Entrepreneurs sign it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Constantinople, requests come from any body. It will therefore be submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u32	It seems that the businessmen are sending us direct amendments, Mr President. This is the revelation!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u33	First of all, you'll have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u34	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Constantinople, if you've come out of your mouth, I'll tell you that soon you'll take the floor to speak and say what you want. Will this amendment be tabled, Mr Ursouzidis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u36	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u37	He'll be filed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theory of thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th High School of St. Dimitrios (Second Chamber) and twenty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Papagos. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall proceed with the rapporteur-General of the New Democracy, Mr Katsafados.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I told you in committee today in plenary: unfortunately, SYRIZA and development, SYRIZA, and investment are not inconsistent. And we do not say it to oppose you, but all market players say so. It's the financial results themselves, because you're close to four and a half years in power. The dues remain at EUR 2.1 billion against suppliers, while you were committed that in August 2018 they would have been zeroed, in December 2018 they would have been zeroed, but remain at this huge amount. Private people's debts to the state have increased. Your forecasts in relation to growth for the fourth consecutive year fall out. We have a weak growth. And unfortunately, as ELSTAT said to us, according to its recent figures, gross fixed capital formation, the economic indicator, which reflects the overall course of investment, fell in 2018 to both current and stable prices at the 1996 levels. This indicator, which measures the proportion of GDP investment, unfortunately ranks Greece, our country, in the last place in Europe and, indeed, with a huge difference in relation to the European Union average. In particular, in Greece it was limited to 11.1%, when both the European Union and the euro area averaged 20.8%. Gross fixed capital investment decreased in the fourth quarter of 2018 by 27.2% compared to the fourth quarter of 2017, even when other countries following economic adjustment programmes such as Portugal, Spain, Cyprus record significant investment activity. Three billion less, ladies and gentlemen, are investments in 2018 compared to 2017. But even for the EIF, because we will talk about the Development Bank, which you have been cutting out after four and a half years, I have to tell you that revenue in 2018 is EUR 2 million compared to EUR 10 million in 2017. So much was your interest in strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. I do not need to mention the position our country has in absorbing the ESDP. It is a 20th third in the European Union! So you see, ladies and gentlemen, that not only should we take advantage of the resources, the means, which the European Union is giving us, in order to be able to strengthen and stimulate the private economy, but we also do everything we can to enslave it with the enormous overtaxation that Greek society and private enterprises have suffered, and also through your ideas and nibbles around the business. Ladies and gentlemen, it obviously needs a National Development Bank. Of course, it's not a bank that we're talking about. It's an organization. You can't go and deposit money. It is an organisation that is in the right direction. There should also be in our country, as there is in the other countries. That's a reality. But explain to me why you are doing so handsomely. Explain to me why you do in such an amateur way even this. And explain to me why you've brought it after four and a half years. Shouldn't they be in your first priorities? Should it not have been taken as a priority in a country that is in such an economic crisis, in a narrow country, in a country that needs good jobs? Unfortunately, however, you have chosen another way, you have prioritised other priorities, and the only thing you are doing today is the EIBAN, which you have brought it into the state in which it is found, simply rename it to a Greek Development Bank. That was the agreement with the President of France, and only from there have you received instructions and advice, because during the committee you did not tell us whether you used the European Central Bank, other European agencies, even advisory bodies, in order to be able to create this agency, which is in the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill really lacks important things to do with the Greek Development Bank. The bill should mention the clear organisational chart of the Greek Development Bank - we asked you, you did not bring it to us - the minimum standards that the executives should have to manipulate the establishment plan at the positions of the board of directors and directors, the responsibilities that these executives have and a clear description of the cooperation of the Greek Development Bank with existing systemic and non-banking systems. On the contrary, there is a committee of candidates that we do not know how it will be set up. You are creating election eves of an administrative council that will serve your own development policy, but you will be mortgageing the development policy that the next government will want to do. His term will be five years. It will be a board of directors, which you will define on the basis of party virtues that will have the members who make up it. It will be a board that will be dominating, because it seems that, as it is written in the bill, supervisory control around this Development Bank will not pass through the General Accounting Office of the State, it will not have anything to do with the Hellenic Statistical Office, it will not have anything to do with the Bank of Greece, but some references will be sent to the Minister of Finance, who will consider them. So do you think that the strategic role that this bank should have through this procedure is guaranteed? Where is a strategic planning for this bank? It shall be subject to the decision of the Governing Council. So everything goes through a board of directors which you will define on the basis of criteria which, from what you have shown us up to now, have nothing to do with the market, but have nothing to do with party legitimacy. We're talking about jobs. The Minister, Mr Drasakis, admitted that they might also open branches. Why all this? First of all, I do not understand the meaning of a bank which does not function as a bank having branches. That's another matter. Obviously, the only role of the branches is to be able to justify some new jobs. And why are these recruitments not carried out in a worthwhile process? And why don't they go through the AAP? We therefore have a board of directors that will determine the fate and fate of this Development Bank - which will manage and leverage the money we will have through the European Union - which will report on the substance only to itself and to the Minister in question. And Mr Drasakis said that they do not want to build a new ETVA, but in essence he admitted, Mr Minister, that in order for this project to succeed, the executives on the board should be able and the political will should exist. I, too, say that you have the political will and you are very good. For the next one, how is it ensured? If a bad Minister comes and not Mr Drasakis, who is a good Minister, how can the proper and effective functioning of the bank be ensured? So, unfortunately, I fear that we will not avoid working even this newly established organism in the measures of SYRIZA that has taught us so far, rushfets, party positions, "fathers". And you know what? It is really a shame and a sin, because in this organization we could give an international dimension. We could treat international practices. Unfortunately, the possibility of admission of international shares, such as the International Financial Institution, which would not only strengthen the company's balance sheet, is not mentioned, but could also translate practices that could help the Greek economy more. The European Investment Bank is missing, the World Bank, the European Investment Fund, institutions with huge and catalytic experience that could help to stimulate genuinely and really not small and medium-sized enterprises, Minister, small and very small enterprises, as GSEI told us in committee. Unfortunately, the Greek economy at a rate of 87% of these businesses and these businesses must be promoted, these businesses must be stimulated, these businesses must be helped. And just so, the fact that you bring with so much ambiguity this bill after almost four and a half years in power, on the eve of the elections, also shows the priority you are giving to growth and investment, but also the logic of being able to work on it and mortgage tomorrow on the next governments to come. Let me go to the second part of the bill, which is about strategic investments. There is no doubt that both the law of 2010 and 2011 had problems. He didn't pay off. But I also asked you in committee - and the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Development has tried to convince me - to tell me why you believe this law will be effective. I heard yesterday in a television interview with the Prime Minister saying 'It is not our fault that we are not doing this, it is bureaucracy', as if he is not the Prime Minister of Greece for almost four and a half years, he is a Prime Minister in another country. And what did you do about it? You didn't do anything that looks like you did. In emblematic investments such as the Greek one, like the Skouries, four and a half years has become nothing. That's the reality. I am not talking about many of what this bill says, such as tax incentives. But, imagine, a left-wing government comes and gives tax incentives and tax exemptions to those who want to invest. If you were in the chairs of the opposition, how about the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen? You would blame them for the pluralism. That's the reality. So there are a lot of things we agree on and help, but we would like the bill to be even more bold in terms of strategic investment. We would like there to be a more accelerated expropriation procedure, the performance of justified urban and spatial derogations, the justified granting of saints and beaches, and the accelerated and restrictive treatment of archaeological findings with the obligation to highlight and protect them. There is still a special reference to the provision for smaller projects of great added value with possibilities of over-performance, such as but not limited to technology and innovation, biotechnology, robotics, research centres, cooperative engineering agricultural production, bio-culture, production of PDO products, environmental projects, specific forms of tourism and others. In this context, I would like to make a reference to the reduction of the entry limits in relation to what Article 10 introduces. In strategic investment, Minister, the limit in our view could be EUR 80 million with a corresponding adjustment of jobs. In flagic industrial investment, the threshold could be considerably lower, at EUR 120 million from EUR 200 million. Let us not forget that multinational companies often use existing fixed equipment. We can probably institutionalise the exceptional inclusion of budget investments of more than EUR 10 million that will enhance decisively existing competitive advantages in the country or support and promote new competitive advantages, in terms of multiplier effects in the economy, both at the level of growth and at the level of job creation. Depending on exceptional cases of integration, such as the stimulation of development at regional or local level. Furthermore, the draft law does not clearly specify the business activities which fall within the scope of that law. For example, I would like to tell you that there may be a problem with companies operating around the Renewable Energy Sources. The concept of flagship investment, let me say that it is not clear. How does the distinguished, internationally renowned, business and what ranking should such an investment be in the first place? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the country has been experiencing a terrible economic crisis for ten years, an unprecedented economic crisis. The purpose of the New Democracy - and according to what its Chief, Mr Mitsotakis, has said - is to give a great battle, to do everything possible to enable the country to become an investment city. We need new investments, fresh money we need, which will create new well-paid jobs, will increase GDP and thus create the financial space, so that we can reduce all these unfavourable taxes that you have imposed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, to speak a little longer, to finish in a minute. You chose four and a half years later to bring this bill apparently for communication purposes, apparently to work on the new organization. One fact is that we have no right to the Greeks of today, to all those who are experiencing this huge economic crisis and, above all, to future generations to be the pigs to development, to programmes, to the pigs in Europe, to a better future. This is an obligation that we need to achieve, a better future, a better development future, a new strong economy. And unfortunately, you cannot make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, the list of Members has been closed. Before giving the floor to the Special Speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, I will give the floor for five minutes to Minister Tsakalotos to present the Minister's amendment with a general number of 2095 and a special number of 69. If a colleague needs to ask a question before the Minister leaves to answer. Here, Minister, you have the floor. I'll give you five minutes. I guess that's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u42	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] With these provisions we are moving towards a rationalisation of the rules on the horse race which is currently having problems with its operation. The aim is to extend the possibility for new projects and to upgrade the already existing facilities within the platform, in order to make the area more attractive to stakeholders and to increase their turnover. This action is taking place in view of the risk that the hippodrome and three thousand five hundred families employed in it will be permanently closed down, leading to impoverishment. It is worth pointing out that there is already the consent of the parties, i.e. the OPAP and the GOI. More specifically, a merger of the subsidiary ‘FIRMICIA S.A.’ with the ‘OPAP S.A.’ is allowed to undertake infrastructure projects. Land uses are already planned for the Olympic facilities, with the changes we predict and the uses of tourism, but also the casino. The same applies to the cavalry group located on the same plot, on the horse racetrack. I heard some numbers yesterday from Mr. Voridis about how much it would cost us. I have not noticed that lawyers will do well with economics - we have discussed this many times, Mr Tindemans - nor have I noticed the good fellow Member avoiding a natural momentum towards overreacting. What I would like to say is that at the moment the rent is EUR 2.2 million per year for twenty years, i.e. a total of EUR 44 million for the current situation. There is no general loss, since after 2021 the rent is provided for as a percentage of the revenues and thus increases the revenues earned by the State. It's a difficult case, the racetrack, there are many families, and I think we need to find a solution. I would remind you that public revenues are not limited to rent, but tax and insurance revenues are also available and, of course, the running of the racing bet. Finally, compensation for specific activities and projects to be carried out by the OPCW is allowed. If, however, these projects increase the value of the land, the rent is also increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Xydakis, would you like to ask the Minister something before he left?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u44	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Teddy, you want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u46	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u47	Not for a placement, for a precise question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u48	Minister, first of all I do not know what this is about. Mr. Voridis knows about it. Therefore, I would ask you not to leave. That's why I took the floor. Please stay here so that you can come and discuss it. You're saying lawyers don't know very well financially. I, not knowing well enough financially, observed an article on mergers there. I have the impression that when a passive person is allowed to merge into an active person, does that usually mean that the public is losing any tax revenue, or does it seem to me that I do not know financially well, Minister? So, when you're making the bill to us, is that where you want to tell us the tax revenues that the public is losing from it? Do you know why I'm telling you this? I can't stand seeing the provisions you're bringing them in the way you bring them. I don't know about that. And if we really need to help a business, we need to help her. But not with an amendment regime at night and not secretly. Minister, I am afraid that on the days of your government it is a permanent night. And don't look up because you're always looking down. Such provisions also exist in the bill we are debating today. Mr. Pittsorla, do you want to look at Articles 40 and 45 and tell us what these are? If you have kindness and want, I say again: Yes, we can help. Wait for Mr. Voridis who knows the subject. Why don't you bring it in with regular legislation? Why don't you agree with the parties? Why are you merciful in the middle and never in the light of the day? What's stopping you? And you're making us humor that we don't know financially! We're sick of seeing those provisions you're bringing here. We're bored. You have no respect for Parliament and no one in democracy. So where are you going with this? I'm telling you, do you believe your order? We have no objections. Why don't you bring her clean? Why don't you bring her in an amendment? Why don't you agree with us? Why don't you bring her to committee? Why do you ascend like a thief for five minutes? Mr President, this situation with this government is a utility. I would like to say again that I do not know this and speak only on a point of order and on the cuffs that the Minister has told us. To sit here, to see the colleague who knows the subject. The New Democracy should discuss the other parties together and see what it is all about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Kutsuko, would you like to ask something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u50	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u51	Minister, keep notes of what you hear and you'll answer to everyone in total. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u52	Minister, how you legislate. Yesterday in the Asian Bank bill, exactly the same amendment was tabled if I am not mistaken - I had time to make a comparison - and withdrew from Mrs Papanatsiou. Can you explain to us what was the reason for testifying and retiring? It is a reasonable question, Mr President, as to how this House legislates and whether it legislates day or night. The second is this: it is clear, Minister, that the state will have a loss of revenue, as the rent currently fixed at EUR 210 833 per month, with the amendment you have tabled, which enables it to be redefined, obviously for the benefit of the company. And since we are not one of those who want to be destroyed by businesses, because there was some mistake or some sort of thing that was not properly measured, we would be asking you, because we have seen a large number of photographic regulations coming lately - now that you are on the way as government and as Minister - to discuss these procedures with transparency and to measure the cost and benefit for the Greek economy and the Greek state and behave accordingly. To the extent that you are attempting to make these settings, it is evident that you will encounter the reasonable reaction and suspicions of counterpopulation. And I am speaking to you as mildly as possible to the Minister of Finance who, in his name yesterday, was tabled an amendment that was withdrawn and reintroduced today. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Shahinides, would you like to ask Mr. Tsakalotos about his amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u54	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u55	I asked Mr. Bright. He doesn't want to. Mr. Saridis, do you want to ask the Minister something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u56	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u57	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u58	I'm not going to follow Mr. Treasury's face. Evidently, elections are coming in New Democracy, and the level must reach that of Mr Georgiadis, so that there can be political controversy. What he said doesn't honor him. I won't follow him as to how he told me. Let it continue like this, can it survive in this New Democracy that is taking place? All I can say to Mr Koutsouko is that the amendment was indeed withdrawn yesterday. Mrs Papanatsiou had not signed the amendment. So he couldn't support her. I was informed, but I couldn't come to the House. That's why it happened. There's no secret. It was a technical matter. I couldn't be here in the House yesterday, and Mrs Papanatsiou hadn't signed it. Evidently Mr. Dendias is right that when you make an intervention to help three and a half thousand families, the state gives something and something will take. The whole is important and we are sure that the state will not be damaged and there will be the three and a half thousand families who will have a job. Mr. Dendias can speak in the same style about these three and a half thousand families who have spoken to me. Too bad for him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u60	But don't start a dialogue. Here, you have the floor for a minute and we close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, we would close it if the Minister followed another procedure than the one that followed. If I understood correctly, he did not answer the substance. He told us that the state is winning something, something is losing. I guess that's not an explanation to the National Representation. For his remarks on my point of order, I would like to say that he is not entitled to address them to us. I imagine he remembers his attitude here and his own party for many years. I am therefore returning your remarks on parliamentary behaviour. I don't need them. However, I would like to sincerely ask you to stay here until Mr Vorides arrives. He's coming. She's sadly at an audience. I'm sorry we haven't predicted how to re-subscribe at night. Therefore, we were not ready. If you brought them in during the normal parliamentary procedure through the committee, etc., the New Democracy in the context of the parliamentary dialogue and would answer and help you. The way you testify and the way you bring it, it shows - I'm afraid - that some other priority is. If you want to help - I'm really telling you - we want to help more. You're not more apathetic to the three thousand five hundred families than we are. You're not more apathetic to us than we are to the national economy. In any case, we'll take care of it in a few weeks. It hurts us so much. Therefore, if you really want to do something positive, a thousand times to do it. But not that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, just to say something for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u63	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u64	Let me just tell you the Minister of Finance doesn't have a second job going to make money as a lawyer. He's only got the job here. And I can't wait for Mr. Voridis to come.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u65	When you were in the opposition...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u66	Not even when I was in the Opposition. You have two and three jobs!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u67	Being unemployed doesn't honor you. Because you're out of work!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u68	Minister and Mr. Teddy, please! And I do not want to remind you, Minister, how many questions you have been asked, because you are not here. The debate is closed here. Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill of lameness with a new marker, but with many photographic provisions. And I am glad that Mr Drasakis and the Minister of Finance are here. I'll start with a device that you didn't bring in secret. You brought her to the obvious. I'm going to be sorry for Mr. Teddy now, because I'm messing with New Democracy a lot. The New Democracy has so far not spoken. It is a provision, Mr Teddy, and I have seen you react personally. The Minister's leaving. I also heard the SYRIZA rapporteur defending it for the first time today. The old 'bad' governments found the business groups that had fake invoices and did not legalize them. In the old development laws, when there were false invoices, the investor returned the entire grant. And you come here today and you get legalization, that is, laundering. What business groups are we talking about? The Minister knows which business groups have fake invoices. Why doesn't he bring them here? Why does the Secretary-General not bring them - and I asked him yesterday - who knows from the services which business groups have fake invoices? Let's see the value of the property, how much money they've taken, how much money is the same participation as old development laws and what's being laundered. Is that the new political morale? And Mr Drasakis said quite rightly the other day that 'this is a big political issue, which we cannot take our own decision'. And now I'm wondering - because I haven't heard New Democracy talk yet - what New Democracy will do to it. Why, Mr Drasakis said that, if there is no consensus, it will not go any further. So there's a responsibility here to you, Mr. Treasury. Your rapporteur is not here. But four days now New Democracy has not said a word about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u70	You're talking about 40.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u71	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u72	Previously, I asked the Minister, didn't I?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u73	Yeah, you. We've got three days here. Is it legalization of counterfeit invoices? It is! Who are these groups? I urge you, Minister, to submit from the private investment services of the Ministry - Mr. Dendias knows - who the groups, who have been caught by the services and are controlled by forged invoices. Will you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, vote in favour of transparency in favour of the new political ethos and styles? No, ladies and gentlemen, we will not vote on it. And since the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, is here to tell us if he legalizes counterfeit invoices. Do you legalize them, Minister? The Minister's not answering. It's okay. So we are very clear on this point and say: 'no legalisation of false invoices, as the Chamber does not know'. The Minister must clearly bring us all those who have tabled false invoices, which have been caught in the light of the fact that today it is coming to legalize them. We'll wait and hear. The second big issue: Minister, we have been a party that has raised proposals, issues, both concerning the Development Bank and all the other articles. As long as I'm allowed, I'll tell you. The Development Bank is not a bank. We have tried to understand that through this procedure, and that is why we have accepted your proposal that the notice should not come out only through ASP, because people also need the private sector in a real bank. We accepted it, and we said yes, we do. We have overcome your undividedness and said that a bank cannot function only through the ADP and through the public sector. But here, Minister, this bank is nothing but today's TANEO. Why open a branch, since systemic banks will give the loans? You'll give the directions. So, basically, we're not talking about the Development Bank. We're talking about expenditure. And I want to tell you, Minister - you have seen it, but listen to it, please - something. Refers to any expenditure on the state budget of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 in case of a grant from the Black Sea Bank for the acquisition of a real estate for its permanent housing in the regional section of Thessaloniki. But, 10,000,000 euros? What other expenditure does the General Accounting Office say? For the staff. The level of expenditure - he says - cannot be estimated because it depends on the adoption of a regulation on the staff and remuneration to which the individual issues will be identified. So, Minister, we have told you the proposals of the Change Movement. We said we could go without an SAAP. There is our proposal that there should be two different funds for micro-enterprises, because the country has special status. They are not all small and medium-sized enterprises. We have a special category of companies that should be small and very small so that they can benefit and not leave all the money to twenty to thirty companies. Despite all these proposals, in spite of all our views - we are ending the sitting in four hours - you have indeed done what you have always said after four years. You put the new 'Development Bank' marker, but in fact, Minister, it does not work at all as a bank. It works through systemic banks and will simply give the money, without even a better distribution in the whole process. We are now going to something that has not been discussed very much. It is a matter of smuggling fuel. Let's see now. Not all parties discuss this because it is a matter of great interest. Let me ask you this: why are we switching to 2021? The operators have told you, and all the stakeholders have told you, that the input-output control system should have been completed. Its implementation is referred to the adoption of a joint decision by a large majority of Ministries, leaving the system free for too long. Didn't the agencies tell you that could be done immediately and quickly? Why don't you do it? Again, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, will you vote on the possibility of smuggling another two or three years? So you're going to change the style of governance? Is that how you're gonna hit capital? So you're gonna hit the smugglers? No one is talking, because everyone knows that as long as the operation of the input-output system goes back, so much as the scientists, not all businessmen, but those who are known on the street know that they are smuggling, and you will then give them the chance to do the smuggling with the bogeyman. Because that should have been over by now. That is why you did not tell us what the agencies said. I attended all the meetings. To tell us what the agencies have told you about the input-output system that this is delaying, it goes far behind. Why does he need so many ministerial decisions? No one from the Ministry and the Government answered. As far as I am concerned, the amendment which we tabled and tabled, we tabled a proposal, Mr Minister. In our view, what you are bringing to Parliament again is a rational reintroduction to a special, I would say, procedure, in a service where the best are needed to go ahead. Let it not be done again through merital procedures. In any case, we disagree with what you are bringing. We told you. We have tabled a proposal to you, if you like, that there should be little justice for all concerned. That is our view. We believe that regular competitive procedures should be carried out in such services and those who can, in the best ways, be those who can make use of these positions. As far as wages are concerned, Minister, I have told you that - and the Minister and you - you have raised a point. There is an inequality in the CTP, between engineers and other specialists. It is not fair, Minister, that engineers take more than 300-400 euros from other people working in the same office. It's unfair and you know it. You said this injustice would be resolved. But so far you have not said what the timetable is. It's postponed from day to day. I will come to an issue, Article 41, concerning information and communication technologies. In 2016, we in the PASOK, the Change Movement, tabled a proposal to both the Prime Minister and the Minister at the time of Digital Policy and to the Ministry of Development on how Greece can become a home of nine hundred thousand jobs - of course not all, but a large part - from businesses that have their head office in Asian countries and for many reasons - for reasons of climate, behaviour and communication - want to bring their companies to Europe. We had tabled a proposal on the basis of the research carried out by the European Commission, which is to give incentives to many levels, from the use of public buildings, the Internet, access and much more. There has been a small improvement in the previous law, which, in my view, only in relation to wages is not enough. Today, ladies and gentlemen, most of these companies - such as, for example, a year ago, the software-related Facebook annex went to Ireland - and large software companies are now heading towards Romania. Our country currently has no share in this great repatriation of thousands of jobs in new technologies. We are here to support such initiatives, which will be an impediment to all that we all cry for, but we do nothing essential to these young people who have special knowledge and can function and work in Greece. I conclude, Mr President, by calling on the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Development to withdraw or make public the list of business groups to which, through the legislation, fraudulent invoices are legalised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House forty students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Aspropyrgos. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the special speaker from the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ilias Panagiotaro.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. When the pilgrims try to convince us that Exarchia is the Montmartre of Greece and unfortunately, it is the opposite, we express our support and solidarity with the struggling French people, the French nation that has been fighting for its homeland for a long time. As for this bill, with the once again heavy title "Greek Development Bank and the attraction of strategic investments and other provisions", we would like to say that once again on the substance "Manolios changed and put his clothes on." Before going on, we have seen how the amendments are coming. The Honourable rapporteur of the SYRIZA has produced an amendment which was not signed, it must have been some non-replacing of what is coming to the parties and passing through the doors or windows. The honourable Minister took it in the paper, and you will now also put the names of the Members or the ministers who will support it. We see that this bill is basically the rename of the EIAAN S.A. in Greek Development Bank. It's just a name change. He used to have another name, he used to have another one, and much earlier it was the well-known ETVA, the one the various partners chewed it and uncooked it and ate what was there and there wasn't. They ate billions of drachmas of the Greek people who, instead of going to growth and investment, went to the pockets of various "mediums", who made them villas, houses, lower. Now many of them, along the way, have been able to'shape' them, legitimized them, arranged them, as they are now doing with this law that they can and they are exploiting and renting them or doing anything else. This bill says that it is ‘Greek Development Bank’. Is it Greek? Of course not, because in order for this government, like the previous government, to take the liberty of lenders, the Troikas, the Europeans, the IMF and all those who have been above our necks for over eight, nine years and are not allowed to breathe. Secondly, is that a development bank? Of course not, because no matter how much you want to golden the pill once again, when in the real economy the free-trader, the farmer, whoever pays VAT 24%, or when he pays insurance contributions to 26% - as long as they have profits, because if you have no profits and you are at the bottom, you pay a lower insurance contribution - when taxes at the end of the day reach 50%, tax advances are at 100% and when there is a bureaucracy invincible from everyone, from small and large, of course we cannot talk about any growth. Here I would like to mention a complaint we have received on the bureaucracy problems that, when we looked into it, we have seen that they are elsewhere. There was a move of Piraeus Transport Directorate from Kaminia somewhere else in Piraeus. For twenty days, all the files have been tied up in some containers and no citizen who wants to go to deal with his cases cannot handle them. There is a professional taxi driver who has bought a car and urgently needs these papers in order to enable this car, the vehicle, to put it into operation in order to make a cut to feed his family and pay this EKA and the highest insurance contributions you ask him constantly. But it cannot because of the incompetence and bureaucracy of this vicious Greek state. And as the simple taxi driver from Troizania cannot do so, neither could the Emir of Qatar who the previous government handed him everything with legislative intervention and years later, the Emir of Qatar was unable to put a single brick. He jumped out of the paperwork, took his money, took what he was about to get and get up and left Greece. Because you say it is "Greek Development Bank", I will tell you that of course it is not a bank, firstly because it even has a dependence on the systemic banks, those that many have failed and that many Greek people, without asking them, constantly recapitalise them by means of loans through memoranda or other state guarantees. So, to do anything that bank can, it's going to pass through systemic banks. And the prospective investor, who, in their vast majority, is all "broken" in the banks and cannot handle anything at all and will eat a door. It will ask for borrowing and the multinational one, which will try to obtain the benefits it can from this system, but it will also have a loan of 1% from the country from which it comes, and here in our home country to borrow some small and medium-sized ones, as you say, there are the very small ones that have them completely out of the candle - they will be borrowed with 6% or 8%. We are talking about two measures and two weights, about a reality that is negative, disastrous for Greek entrepreneurs and Greek businesses. And who will be borrowed? Will your friends once again be late and early, those who used the system over time either by a SYRIZA Government, either by a New Democracy Government, a PASOK government or other governments? These are the well-known businessmen. They are counted on the fingers of both hands - let alone the toes to reach fifteen - and they are within all the programmes, all the allowances, all facilities and subsidies. Let us remind you - because we see that those who have broken the money of the Greek state, and who have continued to have the contract in "Eleftherios Venizelos", where for about twenty years the company "HOCHTIEF". The company received the VAT from everyone and never paid it to the Greek State. At some point, when this came out at the forum - because artificially and deliberately some kept it under the table, buried under the carpet - they saw that it had to give the Greek state 400 million euros and something fine. Of course, signatures had been signed since 1993 and 1996 and the agreement and 'deal' with 'HOCTIEF' were with English law. English law justified "HOCHTIEF" and when the Greek state went to court lately, it lost all 400m euros and about 50m euros it gave the law office to take over the case. So this company, which didn't even pay the municipal fees to the neighbouring municipalities - at the same time that if you don't pay a simple citizen, a poor man, a poor man, the municipality will go and confiscate him, because that's how it all is now, they're going straight to the tax for confiscation - has taken, if you see, all the road projects, together with some other Greek companies, this well-known cartel with a judicial decision and it collects from the Greek State again money and all good and it's no big deal at all. Yesterday, in this famous "SIEMENS" trial that was made "soup" and finally they are all looking for Christoforikos, the one who has taken pictures of all the members of the New Democracy and PASOK over the years, is about 100 million euros of hatred. They found one, two victims, some of them politically-finished, and they charged them all on them. "SIEMENS" and all those who were her people either in the Ministries in the famous Ecumenical world, or various entrepreneurs who see them come down to the political scene, continue and are all good and well. The other friend of yours, who was getting some loans from Attica Bank, Mr. Kalogritsa, who doesn't pay his employees' losses in some small projects he had taken, went to get something big and could not perform anything at all. We see in various projects in Attica - and I imagine elsewhere - that the contractor of the project is the "TOXOTIS" company which does not pay any dividends. It is the FOLLI FOLLIE company that had created a huge business world "fuss" and when it escaped, because some searched it in China, in America and elsewhere - it spent months in Greece to move the capital market committee, when the evil had been done, had lost the money, it had escaped the scandal - of course you could not do anything at all. These are all the selective facilities you have been enacting for some years and have to do with "FRAPORT", as you gave an interested party the "fillet" airports and you're probably going to give more in the process. Of course, in all the legislative regulations you have incredible facilities for them - within many introductorys - 'investors'. The same is true of the 'COSCO' that you changed the legislative framework, you changed everything. The same has happened with the recently adopted bill on the freight station in Thriasio, where everything in force throughout the region, from building factors, licenses, elimination of bureaucracy, etc. All that's true is it's inside the walls. Those who are outside the walls, the small and medium-sized, the medium-sized, anyone else, no, nothing. No one cares what's going on with them. Not to talk about the Greek, you and the previous bills on bills, in order to satisfy the cheques of the one and only who proposed to you and others you threw them out of the doors and windows. And you're always changing. And they keep putting new terms on you. And the potential investor says he wants a casino. You changed everyone's laws in order to put a casino on him. You ask them for one, they ask for the other, and you very nice and nice give this fillet, the best piece of land in the Mediterranean, which if you took it out in an open competition, would certainly have many more than one interested. There is nothing to do with this. And the small ones, the little ones on the outside. You're chasing them ruthlessly, you don't leave them in a green clam. You've thrown them to the ground. Unlike the avatas, as we said, to your various closest late, early, opportunistic. And really, what is it for you, what is growth for you and what is it for healthy investors? For you and for the previous ones, it seems that investment and development is the rampage of the property of the Greek people, where you sell everything against a lentil plate. I remembered a feature, that you gave some real estate - not you, the previous ones - took it from individuals and then rented it from these individuals and from the rent you give, as in the GAAP Mansion, with the rents of two or three years actually, the other is amortizing its market. And a prosecutor has not intervened on these miserable things that are happening at the expense of the property of the Greek people. We are entering this bill, the development plan. Number of photographic devices, ‘Kodak’ is the bill in question. It is Article 41 - and it is interesting here to see - in which you say that the proposed provision introduces a process of targeted support for small and medium-sized enterprises. This concept of "target" what exactly does it mean? A little further, you say, 'aid granted is oriented...'. So, in a free economy, as you say, in globalisation, do you direct where the aid will be? You say 'aid granted is oriented to enterprises active in specific sectors of the economy' and you say below in certain specific sectors. Why? Are you going to make up your mind? Or is it photographic provision to serve your targeted friends and not generally those who want to invest, produce and create jobs? It is this Article 40 which, somewhere in this paragraph, in the sub-paragraph, also actually exists the legalisation of counterfeit invoices. Of course, it was also raised by the previous PASOK MP, and I remembered, when audited by sworn accountants in PASOK's finances who had some invoices and some evidence on paper to justify the hundreds of millions of euros, the gap that existed and tried to justify hundreds of thousands of euros in the paper towels. And now they come as honors of legality. Let's know what's going on. We see that, in other provisions of this draft law, you are once again making the vulnerable groups generally and vaguely clear. Like those, which we saw yesterday, one court convicted some Roma women who were abducting children together in order to have more children and receive more benefits. This is how we generally see in many developmental bills and not just, recently, including vulnerable groups, without saying what they are and what they are. Here we have reached the point where the Greek gypsies protest and say we are not Roma, do not equate us with the Bulgarians, with the Roma who come from Bulgaria, from Albania, from Romania and elsewhere, because the benefits are rampant against us. So you know what's going on. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] We see that once again in a bill - and it shows the inability within many questions - the gap in the legislation on fuel-input system is prolonged once again. And while the leadership of the Ministry of Economy would simply be able to solve it immediately, it would be extended for another three years, until the next extension in 2021 the regime, where there are many gaps. Everyone does what they want. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Allow me, Mr President. Thank you very much. I'll take whatever kind of dentology I have. Thank you. Truly, we ask again and will come back: with the fuels of the Army and the Armed Forces what is going on? Because there is nothing there, no input-out system. And not only that, at regular intervals, they go to destruction - within many questions and introductorys - large quantities of fuel. Is there an incredible party to the detriment of Greek citizens who pay through the taxation and fuels of the Armed Forces? For the beneficiaries of the NRP who are constantly listening, you should finally see who should be entitled to the NRP. Are these professions related to the primary economy, with the primary sector? Are people, companies that will take a piece of stone, lure it and create something? Are companies that will buy machinery to get raw material and turn it into a product, or are we going to give it back to municipalities to make benches, build pavement that tears them down every election season, or do we give them to make sulfurica and cafeterias? Let's know what's going on. As for you, gentlemen, who move the finger and say "in a few weeks, in a few months' time we will change everything", you have voted for all three memoranda, you have been the ones who voted for the third, the most rewarding Memorandum of All, the worst, you are the ones with all the Memorandum Measures - bills where you are sick, either as rapporteurs, or as a party that you vote for them, you have brought destruction to our homeland. The Brain Drain, which started from the first time of the memorandum, continues unscathed. And it hasn't been reduced now that we came out of the memorials, as many people did, but it didn't come out of them. Because, when they went to the memorials last year, they were seated in the Eye where people burned and backed their figurines. So those, who should be the pillars of the real economy, the best productive age is gone and fleeing abroad and no one is left. And if specific things are not done, gentlemen, as we have said, in tax, insurance, bureaucracy, in the protection of Greek products and Greek workers, there will be no growth. In conclusion, it is very appalling that the Golden Dawn has positions, that it also has opinions, that it also has positions in local government, whether it is in the region or in the municipalities, whether it is for the European elections, so you are trying to feast it. But as everything shows, it's not going to sneeze, it's going to triumph. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Lambroulis from the JRC has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin to place myself on the bill, I should like to refer to two amendments tabled by the Group of the European Democratic Party of Greece: one concerns the granting of aid from the State budget to beneficiaries of a rural electricity tariff with a view to reducing the cost of production of agricultural products. The aim is to cover 50% of the annual account of the responsible farmers and farmers, calculated on the basis of the current agricultural guideline, with the addition of the other charges, and not to exceed EUR 3 000 per beneficiary per year. The second amendment concerns farmers and farmers again and concerns the return of the Special Consumption Tax, we believe that it is necessary to reduce the cost of production, which is unbearable, large, it is excessively burdened by the Greek farmers. And, of course, any burden on the state budget is small, very small, in relation to the burden on the state budget of the calculation from corresponding tax evasions and others, which apply to other categories: shipowners, airlines and go and say. The amendment tabled by Mr Tsakalotos, codified and with one word, is a challenge. It's the one that's about the pedestrian race in Markopoulos. It's a challenge. And of course, we will see it and we will vote against it. With regard to the draft law and the creation of the Development Bank, the Development Bank is to be another tool for supporting, strengthening and safeguarding the profitability of business groups that are incompatible with the development of the people, since the business groups do not care about either the people's needs or the utilization of the country's productive potential, except for their bleeding when they are...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, may I ask a question? May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u79	No, I won't allow you. What exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u80	I wanted to ask you something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u81	Yeah, ask me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u82	Because BSE is not positive at the Development Bank, which is so...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u83	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u84	You're saying that the Development Bank we're doing it to help the big business groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u85	Oh, of course. They're gonna benefit. That's what we're saying. Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u86	Good. And in the committee, where all the bodies came, an institution that objected, disagrees, etc. was the Association of Greek Industries. If it was what you say, BSE shouldn't be the first...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u87	I beg your pardon, this bank is not just for local entrepreneurs, but for investors too, in the direction of attracting investors - that is what you say - whether domestic or foreign.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u88	In any case, that is what I wanted to note.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u89	Obviously, any objection you raise is about competition between the portions of business groups, which are also about the operation of this Development Bank tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u90	So this Development Bank is doing something if it's in good hands, it's doing something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u91	So do not say this as an argument to turn the arguments of the Communist Party into one, that, in this bill, you are very favourably favouring and giving it all to the large business groups in the chapter that we are talking about. Therefore, this direction and aiming at their policies have been served both by previous governments and by today, in other words, serving both entrepreneurship and competitiveness, the diploma that has led our country to the economic crisis and which is now the proposed government management, through the national development strategy, will bring, as it prophesies, fair and sustainable growth. Reference is also made to the explanatory memorandum to the draft bill. And in this fold of competitiveness - entrepreneurship, all other parties agree, regardless of any differences in management character or proposals or even disagreements on individual issues. The question, however, is, in our view, who is developing this development and who will benefit. Because in the period before - for example - the capitalist economic crisis, which had high growth rates, GDP growth, we have had a huge increase in capital profitability, while at the same time we have hit basic labour and insurance rights, unemployment, flexible forms of labour, gradual reversals in insurance, reversals in social rights, health, education, welfare, issues that have naturally increased during the crisis and which are a prerequisite for their continued competitiveness, namely the profitability of capital. In addition, does the merger not involve the concentration of production and the market and their control by a handful of multinationals? Because even as a tool to see the creation of the Development Bank, we do not think it will help, but it will contribute through the famous development model, which is adapted to the requirements and needs of capital, to the destruction of productive powers, since it is not part of a policy against the cause of the crisis, which is the anarchy to capitalist production. Thus, the only beneficiaries and from this so-called development tool will be large businesses. This bill, Minister, was welcomed by the business operators in committee. All they have put or stressed, if you like, was that they are asking for a reduction in tax scales, a further reduction in taxation to increase their profitability. Furthermore, this is not the direction in which the financial instruments, the NSRF, are not serving, the Public Investment Program, which finances concern areas that the capital has chosen to invest, in order to win, while projects that need and are aimed at satisfying people's needs are referred to the bells, with our people, respectively, to pay a heavy price, because of these deficiencies, in anti-military, anti-nuclear, anti-smoking, anti-smoking, anti-smoking protection, for example. Through strategic investment, as the bill speaks, don't you create terms and conditions, turning red carpet for investors, giving them everything? So, at the same time that you bleed the people with barbaric anti-grassroots measures, with the memorial tombs, overthrowing conquests and rights, which the workers have conquered, impoverishing our people and giving land and water to investors. This is reflected in the provisions of the bill, i.e. through the specific spatial planning, which will be cut and sewn into the interests and the mountains of the major businessmen who want to invest, a stable tax regime, escalating tax incentives and tax exemptions, a subsidy for wage costs, a free labour force and aid - see hot money - for research projects and other, favourable taxation for business executives, and even for any differences that give rise to the possibility of resolving them not in the Greek courts, but in other ways, arbitrations, etc. In fact, as mentioned in the bill, large budgets, strategic investments, etc., you may exceptionally allow investors to intervene on forest land, on public land, on grassland, rocky, stoney, in mountain and semi-finished areas and, in the absence of these, in the forests for expansion or modernisation of the existing industrial plant, only provided that this extension does not exceed 10% of the existing industrial installation. Really, after that, is there anything else you don't give? It is probably there, seeing the amendments too. You deliver everything to the investment appetites, to the service of capital interests. You are implementing a profoundly classic policy in favour of business groups and capital, at the same time that the majority of the people are squeezing behind the ravages, the multiple taxation that exists, the unemployment, the undoing of social rights, while the impact on the environment by the immunity of businesses will be tragic for our people. And if something proves through the bill, for which the workers, the people's layers, should not fall into the trap of the government's fair and sustainable development and all the other parties that support this exploitation system, since all of you care is how you strengthen competitiveness, namely the profitability of capital, but by crushing the lives of our people, it is that the role of the state, which is already referred to as the 'institutional accelerator' of the bill in the explanatory memorandum, as well as the role of the banks, will not become a philosopher, regardless of the management mix that can be formed between the state and private individuals. This management mixture has nothing to do with the modern folk needs. On the other hand, it presupposes their even greater collapse in order to shield the competitiveness of capital. With this criterion we also call on the people to see this development model of the SYRIZA government. Moreover, workers and people can today judge for whom and at the expense of whom this development plan is being promoted, both by the government and other urban parties, and whether or not they are looking forward to something positive. Is it precisely for growth through development conferences and regional interventions not the Prime Minister but also the ministerial staff for the past period, going to Greece, with the well-known regional development conferences? In other words, it has talked about the distribution of state and European funds to rural capitalists and farmers' big businessmen, about strengthening the large vertically-integrated units involved in the primary sector, with an export orientation, at the same time as thousands of small and medium-sized farmers and farmers are squeezing behind the CAP, the common agricultural policy, the European Union and the anti-population policy of the government. Truly, what does the poor farmer have to gain when the prices of products he produces are degrading and does not even know whether he will be able to produce next year? Do producers or not lead to the removal and abandonment of crops, while our country is deficient in livestock products, while it can produce and satisfy the nutritional needs of our people? Truly, what did the employee win from the profitability in the food industry, while his wages and rights are on the tartars or tourism, what did the hotel employee earn from record arrivals, while for the people's family rest, recreation is an inappropriate dream? What have the young people who are studying won, who, when they get the degree, are led either to migration or to jobs of the foot? Or is it, for example, an answer to the serious health problems of the people, the strengthening of the commercialisation and business activity of public health structures, or the medicine, which has been transformed into a pharmacopoeia for the people's pocket, so are investment in so-called medical tourism? This is why it is no coincidence that during this period when domestic capital seeks to go through a phase of growth of its profitability and competitiveness, the government and all the other parties - urban parties, personnel of the system - not only serve and promote the strategic goals of the Greek bourgeoisie, but at the same time constitute the manipulation and meditation of the workers and the people behind this strategy. Thus, with the cloak of the national plan, as mentioned in the bill, they are attempting to dress the interests of capital with national colours, highlighting some ‘tree’ in order to develop expectations of the fraud of fair growth, from which, as a matter of fact, business groups and workers can benefit. The Communist Party of Greece has submitted to the people a radically different proposal, which today can satisfy all the needs of the people, starting with the first and foremost, development, which will not serve capitalist profitability, but satisfy the people's needs. And it is a radically different proposal, which is precisely questioning those responsible for poverty, impoverishment and exacerbation of the people's daily problems. It highlights the only way out, which is to socialise the specific means of production, to centralise and to control labour, which are the only tools that can exploit all the production capabilities of the country. These possibilities which capitalist development is currently destroying. The central planning is to eliminate unemployment, meet people's needs through the production process. At the same time, of course, there are two other conditions. The non-recognition of public debt and the release from the imperialist organisations, the European Union, NATO, the International Monetary Fund. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. That is why today it is imperative that the people pass at the counter-attack, organize their struggle in the workplaces and the working class to build popular unity with the rest of the populace. Only in this way can the escalation of the anti-population attack be disproved. To give breath to the people, to armed with optimism, masturbation, determination, to move on to overthrows at the level of power and to organise the economy in such a way that at its heart man will be at its heart and to satisfy his modern and ever-enlarged needs. A prerequisite for this? The strengthening of the JRC everywhere and on the basis of the forthcoming elections in the European Parliament, in municipal, regional and parliamentary elections, whenever they occur. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. Mr. Saridis from the Centroon Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we would very much like to be optimistic about the introduction of an investment bill nowadays in the Greek Parliament, for our country. We believe, however, that this bill which comes to the Greek Parliament is problematic, is incomplete, in several respects, and that is why the Central Association will vote'residents' on the government's specific legislative initiative. We are talking about growth, about investment, about things that do not come in a magical way, about investments clearly want clear legislative provisions, so that we know how to start, how to move forward and where to end it. In addition to the problematic profile of this bill, we in the Central Association believe that investment does not come with a state mandate and certainly development in the country is not the result of a single good legislation. The State must facilitate the market in breathing, reducing it from tax bases and social security contributions. This is the position of the Central Association, a permanent position for many years now, seeing that only in this way could the Gordian link to investment and development be solved. It is not possible, on the one hand, to have a smuggling banking system and more than 80 billion red loans, capital control and expensive money, and on the other hand, to seek to give aspirins to a man who is with chronic disease in the bed of pain, with legislation in fact clipping like this one. Indicative of curiosity is that, in relation to the Development Bank, you have not produced a single elementary operational plan, a business plan. In fact, in 1.1 you say that for this bank you intend to operate on private-sector criteria. In the private economy, however, ladies and gentlemen, every attempt at operational development is accompanied by an appropriately documented plan, one which we do not see exists in this bill. In this case, we estimate that the bank's success will be brought by fate and by crew per year. The crew of time, however, should not be expected to be too long, because the Greek economy needs it immediately. He needs it from yesterday, I could say. The business plan could include it in the explanatory statement in order to be judged by parties' staff, the political staff of the parties and to be judged by the relevant bodies, who come to discuss in the relevant committees and to give their opinion. So couldn't the government draw up such an entrepreneurial plan or did it not? Does this lack of documentation mean that this is an election bill intended to function only at the level of government advertising? That is not what we in the Centroon Association say. That can be invoked by any opposition party right now in the Chamber. It leaves its mark on this bill, so it makes the argument to all of us to say, on the one hand, that we clearly need an investment bill, but on the other hand, the way, the shortcomings it has in it, the gray ones that leave us, create the mood, which - we may be sincere - we may not have had it, we may not have blamed the government for bringing an election bill. How will the bank be corrected at a capital level? What will be the analytical sources of revenue and expenditure? What will its organisational structure be in its full development? When are we going to find out all this in a documented and detailed way? Article 2.9 on pages 7 and 8 must be supplemented so that all positions of responsibility are managed up to the level of the Director made by open and transparent procedures. We haven't seen that, it doesn't seem. We do not think of a denomination of development bill being governed by the classical culture - what we always leave to many bills - ruptured and interacting. Why cannot we make things clear in a bill that we are bringing here to the Greek Parliament? Why can't we put them in a row? When you talk about strategic investments in this bill, we understand that there is a huge margin of reliance and a subjective crisis of the private investment projects of the government. What you include in today's bill as criteria not only are not enough, but they cannot characterise an investment project as a strategy for themselves. Whether an investment is strategic is seen not by how many employees it employs, but also by its overall footprint in the economy of a country and especially by Greece's economy, which clearly needs to take great breath through investment moves. The footprint, therefore, is usually seen by pragmatic and measurable elements, such as reduced financial risk, documented operational plan and experience of similar past efforts, both domestically and internationally. Furthermore, the assignment of the supervisory activity of the Development Bank to the Bank of Greece cannot be effectively exercised, as the Bank of Greece itself states in its statement. The supervisory process will cause risks to both the supervisor and the supervisor. That is why you must consider the proposal to abolish the supervision provision on the part of the Bank of Greece. An important body, the Greek Technical Engineering Federation, mentioned its concerns about Article 32 through its memorandum. Please, Minister, take this seriously, because we consider it to be justified. Furthermore, the remark of the Association of public limited companies and the EIA on Article 45 is quite valid. The legislator to exempt from the special tax on immovable property the public limited company with registered shares to a natural person, part of which is held by a domestic institution governed by a public authority, asks the institution to carry out denomination, an action which is nowhere in our law. Furthermore, the legislator does not exempt from the special tax on immovable property the public limited companies when one of the shareholders is an institution, while exempting from the special tax on immovable property the public limited companies with shares listed on the stock market. These are issues which need to be examined with particular attention. There are also serious concerns about Article 25. These concerns are expressed from our point of view. I think, however, that these concerns have also been expressed by the Pan-Hellenic Association of Diplomatic Farmers of Engineering for Articles 28 and 33 in the committees. There is the notorious article 40 on which the opposition parties have spoken. The Centro Association will also speak. There, you leave a big grey. There you let the fog prevail over this Chamber. You have not explained what you are really trying to do with Article 40. You leave the suspicion that, with this article, you have some legality with this legislative initiative. And this is done through the Greek Parliament. I'm not going to talk to you about fake invoices. I will talk to you about the mood, as it emerges from this piece of legislation, to fall as softly as a man who had in his mind intended to steal the Greek public effectively. Because that's what he had in mind. At the same time, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, companies attempting in Greece, Greece, our country, which are legitimate in everything, which is legitimate in their statements, who pay the tax they have to pay, which state the VAT they have to declare, because they have been in a difficult economic situation for a certain period of time, let the IAEA raid on their accounts and get what they have in these accounts. The message that we should have put from the Greek Parliament and that Greek citizens could receive is as follows: no impunity, no different punishment for them and others. So a man who is unable to be okay with his obligations towards the Greek State, but who wants to be okay with his obligations, put him at the same level as someone who issues fake invoices for his own benefit? Is that what we're doing? However, we in the Central Association consider the compulsory installation of an integrated system for monitoring and electronic data transmission, inputs and outputs at all stages of the movement of liquid fuels, which was also a permanent position of the Federation of Venizelosers of Greece. This measure has been delayed enough and our country has been damaged by the relativeness and opacity of the procedure. In conclusion, we believe that the Greek economy should provide equivalent incentives for all private sector actors, without excessive state intervention, without arbitrary crises and without a favourable attitude. We want a country that is more remarkable, more technocratic, with greater appreciation of extroversion, entrepreneurship and innovation. For us all these are factors that can lead with certainty and certainty to a better future the Greek economy. And to tell the truth, we haven't crossed the skeleton. The Greek economy has not exceeded it. She's in front of her. We still have two, three years extremely difficult. So let us leave the blossoms and let us move on to what the Greek economy needs, what the Greek people need. For this particular piece of legislation - I repeat - the Central Association will vote 'at present' only because it believes that investment bills are needed, but not for this particular investment bill. We shall be voting for the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen - in fact, ladies and gentlemen - I must say that I believed that today would be a pleasant day for me personally - you also allow me the personal element - but also for the New Democracy. I say this because on the issue of the Development Bank we have a permanent and permanent position. We had done the relevant project since 2014. Mr. Konstantinopoulos, the rapporteur, was then a partner at the Ministry of Development, within the Government of Samaras. We had prepared the law. There was a meeting with the troika. There had been a meeting in Berlin with the two German ministers, the Minister of Economy, Mr Gabriel, then the President of the Social Democratic Party, and the Minister of Finance, Mr Soible, and the process of change of the EIB had been overall agreed, under specific procedures, on the Development Bank. In fact, the law office of Athens was entrusted with drawing up the statute. I think there was a preliminary draft of the relevant legislation. I had it. But I don't know if he'd been released, so there'd be opinions. From August 2014 until April 2019, it took four years and several months to reach three months, four months, two months, one month, a few weeks, a few days before the end of the government term of that government, to discuss the issue of the Development Bank, the evolution of the EIB in the Development Bank. Honestly, it would be worth explaining to us what this was about, which led to this four and a half-year delay. What was that, which puts the SYRIZA Government in added value before cooperating with the ANELs, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, in this piece of legislation, which, if it does not justify the delay of more than four and a half years? Because the Development Bank was not arrested as a game for the Minister of Development or the government in question. Its purpose was obvious and extremely important, in a country we believed in 2014 - of course we had not predicted in the first half of 2015 - that it is going out of the very big crisis. The aim of the Development Bank was - and I imagine it remains - to correct the market deficits, where the market fails to support the country's development effort. We of the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, do not belong to the concept of extremist capitalism at the Chicago School. We have a concept of cooperation between the State and the private sector, and we think that the state can play a very important, very rewarding role, but when it plays it within its own capabilities, when it does not represent the businessman, when it does not compete with the businessman, but when it is a helper, when it is consistent with the efforts of the private sector to develop the economy and improve the level of life. The Development Bank, therefore, can help where the market is, commercial banks cannot take the risk of helping. And again, the Development Bank is not a rival to private banks, it's not another systemic bank. It's something different. It is the lever of the national economy to support businesses, to support overall efforts in areas that risk exceeding the banking system crisis, the banking system's ability. That is what we had seen, and what we had also seen, and which we had started, and which we had agreed, has been delayed for four and a half years. I am not going to go into the problem of regulation, Mr Minister. Our diligent rapporteur, Mr Katsafandos, has referred to them and will refer back to his denology. With regard to strategic investment, I am sorry to have to repeat what has now become a common place in this Chamber, and which SYRIZA has been analyzing as speculation or fantasy in the past, that the country has suffered a huge disinvestment in these years. And the bad thing is, the disinvestment is continuing. The disinvestment process, i.e. the difference between the investee in relation to the invested capital, continues and expands. Of course, it is clear that one takes into account the economic policy pursued, the fiscal policy pursued, the investment policy, the general culture of the government in terms of investment and the efforts of the private sector to get the country out of the crisis. For as much as we believe - and I have told you before - the State's rewarding role, the network of protection for the weak, that the state has a systemic and constitutional obligation to create and formulate, on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I am referring to the SYRIZA colleagues, nor to you do it escapes that, if the private sector does not take the risk and the effort to develop the country, this development cannot take place. Growth needs investment and, unfortunately, not small investments. We estimated in 2014 that the country needs around EUR 100 to 105 billion to be able to lead to sustainable and significant growth rates. This Mr Stathakis, the previous Minister, has met with a two-three-year delay. But now with the pre-investment, even that number is small. It takes a total coexistence of all available tools and, if you want, not only of the large foreign investments, but also of the economy of each Greek and Greek soldiers in the effort to develop the country's economic development, to get out of a second, very large, threat, the maintenance of a very small growth rate, which, together with the primary surpluses and the results of the crisis, will lead the country to such a stagnation, which cannot serve the future of Greek society. I am sorry to say that these arrangements, which are now being introduced, are in no way sufficient. The only thing I hope to say about the re-examination of strategic investment in Articles 10 to 29 of the legislation is that a new government, much more liberal, much more entrepreneurship-friendly, with a clear understanding of the role and the limits of the state, will take over in a few weeks - or, if you want, in a few months, as the Prime Minister said yesterday - the government of the country to take it better. By the way, since I spoke about the Prime Minister and before I went on with the legislation, I would like to say that I was impressed by the full distance that he has taken from various names that are now the subject of the debate in all Greek households, such as Mr Petsiti's one. The Prime Minister of the country obviously doesn't know, he didn't see, he didn't listen. He has no idea who is often in the Maximus Mansion. He has no knowledge of who trade or talk with his ministers. He has no idea who they're traveling with his ministers. All of this obviously doesn't concern him. They are about other people, other countries. They have nothing to do with their own Ministerial Council. I must say that we have waited for a more serious and more responsible approach. In any case, he's an outgoing Prime Minister, that's what he wanted to tell us, and that's what he told us. Soon we shall all go to our highest judge in our "boss" in Greek society. She will judge if such responses have any evidence of seriousness. This piece of legislation, Minister, does not avoid the habits of the Syrian legislation. First of all, once again, you are amending Law No.4312/2016 on public procurement. This multipathic law, which was introduced here triumphantly, with drum impacts, is again being changed. What's funny, ladies and gentlemen? That he has been amended by the National Representation, namely, the majority, not us, for 15 days with Law 4605/2019. Ten days ago, you changed it. After 15 days you remember something else and you amend it again. Ladies and gentlemen, is that a legislature? I honestly tell you that in the generations that come to legal and economic schools, the legislative production of the period of SYRIZA and SYRIZA - ANEL, it will be taught as absurdum, as the strange thing, as the one that has no logical follow-up, which is a string of micro-party and continuous interests of mutually disarming people, so that every ten days a regulation that is introduced into another way, in another way, without anyone having any overall view of the legislative work, without there being any direction at the end of the day. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, when there is no direction, and there is no policy, Minister, what does it emphatise? The wicked one. And I come to what I said earlier, when in fact with acid but not unfairly, I addressed to the Minister of Finance Mr Tsakalotos, who again tried to bring an amendment that he had only withdrawn yesterday and which would be placed on the New Democracy in a short time. I am referring to Article 40 on investment projects. Minister, I have no intention of taking this to you. I want to be honest with you. I don't mean to blame you because I don't think you'd bring it here if you were a lawman and you understood what this article was written. I blame it on service providers, I blame it on nomadic manufacturers, who obviously do not know or know what they are legislating for. The second is more painful than the first. For, Minister, to enter a piece of legislation into the National Representation by which the National Representation should accept the legalisation of virtual invoices, I beg your pardon, but please, if you have the kindness, into the National Parliament of Venezuela under this regime or another sub-Saharan African country, because we cannot accept these things. I am sure, and I say it again, because I do not want to blame you, that you do not do so on this. But you will prove this in the most festive way: you will remove Article 40 from this legislation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like to ask you one more minute. Ladies and gentlemen, read it. If a businessman submits fictitious, false and non-legal invoices and arrests - this is also a criminal offence possibly to the extent of a crime of height - this businessman, according to the law, will receive the subsidy money. There will, of course, be a small, very short sentence, but I imagine that, if the prefecture group were to be more imaginative, we would have to apologise to him and apologise for having troubled him. These are legislation when it comes to society's dominant demand is that of transparency and cleansing, and we afflict colleagues and we squash them and afflict former Prime Ministers and here the virtual invoices of millions go before our eyes as if we hadn't been able to pay them. I come to Rule 45, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I'm sorry, but I'm gonna need a minute. Mr Vice-President, I don't know if you know the piece of legislation, and if you have knowledge, but I'll tell you something that might make you nervous ideologically. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA has an obsession with offshore companies. Something's pulling him, something he likes, something he loves there, something attracts him. For two years with Law4389/2016, he defied all offshore companies that hadn't declared who was the real owner and who because of this had to pay powerful and resounding fines of 15% on the value of the property a year. So the protector of the weak, the representative of the people, the guardian of values, the archangel of the cleansing and the law of these offshore companies are legalized and fined. That's what happened in 2016. But that's not enough. He's telling you now something might have escaped. So he comes to Article 45 with a new version and tells us that the Greek companies, which have anonymous shares and have not declared the holder, should also forgive them. Do you know what it is - and allow me the acidity of the phrase, ladies and gentlemen - the ridiculousness of the matter? You don't have to do this. You're just incomplete. There is a decision of the Council of State, Decision 36 of 2019, if I remember correctly, which explains under what parameters when it comes to the documents of a Greek public limited company who is the final beneficiary, then the fine should not be imposed on it. But that's not how it's done. With the Council of State we do not validate cases, we do not serve businessmen, we do not worship private interests. So we have to put in order. As if Article 40 were not enough, we could even provoke the national Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I say this sincerely, and I say this for the sake of the good of the country and society: this government must leave as soon as possible. It's charming every day. These instruments, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I say to you, are beneficial when in the Minutes of the House in the years and decades when your votes come, they will be gathered under such arrangements. I sincerely think as soon as we're done I can draw up a nice list, a fine book, with the special provisions that you've spent these four years with, and I think society will have a lot of fun if it's brought up next to your declarations of cleansing, transparency and honesty. Then I think it'll be good if you don't belong to those who should be hiding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u96	The Minister has the floor, Mr Yiannis Drasakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u97	So, Mr Dendia, the government, which solves decades' problems, should stay the country as you had it, a country with a law on investment that yielded nothing, a country with a deficit in financing, the only country without a development bank and much more, and, in any case, should you or some of you come back and continue to do air in the skeletons that we found in the Ministry and especially in the Development Law Service. Because what we are hearing here - I, as you know, am not of the high tone - have a very strong dose of shame. I shall start with that, although it is not the serious question, with Article 40. I, Mr Dendia, told the committee what we received. We have received a situation which, based on the reports by the services, tells us that, firstly, there are companies that have completed their investment, but either because there is the counterfeit, but there is also the case of non-refractory, only expenditure has been incurred in advance of the licence. They are therefore considered to be irregular, illegal and must be ignored by development law. So some businesses, perhaps, will be closed down. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u98	Why don't you limit it to that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u99	Let's narrow it down. Do I have a problem? I don't even know who they are either. This issue came with proposals from chambers, I think also with questions from Members here in this House and we have brought the provision, as Mr Constantinople recognised.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Constantinople brought her?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u101	Oh, no. I say that we have brought the provision, as Mr Constantinople recognised, with transparency. I said openly about what this is about and I called on the House and the parties to take a stand. So we from Article 40 will defend to the end the first paragraph, which severely restricts fines. As far as the second paragraph is concerned, we want a broader majority and consensus to ratify it. I would simply point out to those who are voting against that it may have some consequences, which you will then find in front of you. The most important thing, however, that I found in Mr Dendia's speech, since I succeed him, is that what he said shows that the role of the state in our time and the role of the markets in our time is not a given thing. In other words, Mr Denktash refuses to accept the basic doctrine on which the policy that has so far emerged as a policy of the New Democracy is based, namely that the effectiveness of the markets is the one that can bring growth. So they don't need targeted policies. That is why the recipient state had neither industrial policy nor development strategy nor sectoral policies. There was nothing. I welcome this position and look forward with interest to knowing exactly who the New Democracy programme will do. Mr. Dendias, the CEFIM, the IOBE, any communications offices? The other point I wanted to say introductory terms is that this government did not simply take the country out of the memorials and the dam in which it was created in 2014 and did not simply take the country out of the memorials with society upright, where in difficult circumstances we managed to take measures that prevented at least extreme poverty and social exclusion, but we created and created significant opportunities for the next four years and the next decade. You will allow me to describe this unseen work of the government, because the media are not interested in them, but we do not have the opportunity to put it to the public to the extent that they should. I am referring, first of all, to the fact that for the first time Greece, the Greek state - I am not a historian, but I doubt there was another period since the establishment of the Greek state - has liquidity reserves. And these reserves are important because, beyond the initials, the pillow, as we have said, the reserves have been increased both by access to the markets and by the lending we have made. From what I read in an international report, the stocks we have allowed us not to have to borrow until 2023. Of course, the government, as it is well known, is in discussion with a view to repaying some loans from the International Fund and not just, above all, expensive loans. And in general this liquidity enables us, once it is not consumed - because we have fortunately not had such turbulences that cause us problems - to improve the international credit image of the country, to have lasting improvements, to drop borrowing interest rates and to find ways to speed up recovery and growth. So in the direction of the possibilities I have said, it is also the vote on this bill. The fact that the country has a development strategy, which is updated, improved and specified, that it has modern policies, that improves the business environment and the licensing environment, that we are creating financial instruments that complement the banks - obviously - allow us to cover up to speed with the financial gaps, all these are possibilities of the present and future. I would like to confine myself to the issues of the Development Bank, since it has also caused an interest. And I would like to say that I consider the debate in the committee to be constructive, obviously with the views that each party, every rapporteur and every body has expressed. I would like to say that, unfortunately, we have an issue here, which, of course, is deeply political, has some technical aspects and so ignorance can often lead to mistaken political positions. That is why I want to highlight a few of these issues. I begin with the spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, who described the Development Bank as a tool for strengthening major businesses. It's about ignorance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u102	Ignorant?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u103	Large companies have the opportunity to borrow in many ways: and they have to get abroad to go to the Stock Exchange as well. The need is mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why the development banks - not just us - are, on the one hand, oriented towards infrastructure and, on the other, small and medium-sized enterprises. So I think the Development Bank is a progressive tool and the Communist Party should see it that way. Of course, it depends on who runs it, in which context it works and so on. I do not want to say that every development bank is also successful. After all, we have examples here in the past which must be examples to avoid. And if you were in the committee where the bodies came, you would see that all representatives of medium and small entrepreneurship - GSEVE and others - were strongly in favour of the creation of the Development Bank and also the bodies, such as environmental and so on. It is another dimension, that development banks can finance exactly long-term projects. On a number of other issues raised during the debate, the rapporteur - I think - of the New Democracy, because it is only the French bank. It wasn't just the French bank, it's the consultant. The work done covered a wide range of examples. I have to say that we had a debate with the German counterpart bank, which, however, does not undertake advice, but is obviously one of the bodies we are working with. Another question was why escalating elections should be the appointment of the board of directors for five years. This is a matter not exactly the right information. What is going to happen now is that a temporary board of directors will be appointed by the shareholders' meeting, which will run all of what is to be done, namely to establish a regulation, to make the bank's rules of procedure, and on the basis of the regulation, the final board will be chosen. And I must say here that we all need to make sure that people who have not only technocratic adequacy but also one - let us say - are able to manage this project, especially in its first phase, in accordance with the principles with which we are voting here. On the question of whether there is strategic planning, of course there is a five-year plan, which has been prepared in the first phase, but the bank's institutions will be working on it in its final form. There were questions about the annexes. It is planned with the legislative improvements that will be obtained from the creation of annexes per region. A strong intervention was made by the Association of Research Companies, Advisory Companies and others to provide for the purposes and the involvement and implementation of European Union external aid programmes. Obviously, this is also added. With these issues, no one knows how detailed it should be. I also told the committee that the new financial scheme of the European Union provides for direct guarantees to national development banks. So, anyway, the Bank's development will be in relation to the European Union's financial instruments and, therefore, the issue of technical assistance is also included. We had the opportunity to say that throughout the world there are over five hundred seventy - if I remember correctly - national development banks - because there are transnational and regional within countries - and that in Europe we were the only country together with Malta that did not have a development bank. Malta has created, and we are now moving on to creation. The question I would like to raise and answer is why, therefore, all the countries and even the developed ones are making sure that they have one or more development banks, because this also answers the question of the necessity and the particular nature of these banks. The first reason is that all serious countries recognise that markets make mistakes and these mistakes create shortcomings in financing or financial gaps. So we need an institution that covers the gaps that are created. And such gaps are what we were talking about before about small businesses which, at the best times, did not have the doors of the banks open and works with a certain risk and so on. The second reason is that the development banks also have a geopolitical role - I would say. It is those institutions that will be used by the President or Prime Minister of a country to explore opportunities or to help with cooperation with other countries. Also, the third reason is that these banks also play a wider institutional role, that they are the focal points for the formulation, production of knowledge, for the evaluation of programmes, for the design of complex programmes, for the study and promotion of sectoral and other policies. For these reasons, therefore, all countries have, or have, or are building, and now that we are discussing new development banks. Why didn't we? That is the question: why didn't we? Obviously, the political class of this country did not consider it important to have this institution in our country because there was a mystical approach to the whole issue, because there was no concept of strategic development, what I want to achieve, where I want to go, and what my tools are needed to achieve this, because perhaps some mystical banking interests thought that they would be'stuffed up' by the existence of the development bank. For these reasons, then, we as a country did not have one. So the point that some people have in the position that we still do not have to do today. It is clear here that we have a denial of ideological or self-satisfactory criteria. In other words, the extreme neoliberal does not understand the concept of targeted funding. Nor does the representative of the Golden Dawn understand that concept, only as a ruffle understand it. In other words, they do not understand that if we want industry in Greece, we need industrial policy. And if we want industrial policy to be implemented, we also want specific financial instruments to promote this policy. Why are we late? Mr. Dendias asked. We're not late. The first decision to implement it was already made in April 2015 on the Governing Council for Economic Policy. We have faced some difficulties. The first difficulty was that there was no boost from the country's productive forces, that is, no one forced us to do that. On the contrary, there may have also been some comments abroad that were not positive or favourable to this project. The second reason is that we found a accumulated suspicion because Greece used to have a development-like bank - it was not exactly the same thing - ETVA, it ended up being an outbreak of scandals - at least in its final stage - and instead of improving, refining and developing, privatising. And so the question arises whether we want to make a new ETVA. We know it's not your fault, we were told, but... We had to make these resistances. We have beaten them and reached them in 2017 that there is even a positive reference to a Eurogroup decision. Secondly, we had to have some preparatory work, such as what you said, to see and study works, to study cases, to select the consultant and so on. I must note that we are in the middle of the project today. In other words, the adoption of the law puts the bank in place, because we are doing it through the transformation of the EIF, and so there is already a structure. However, I must point out that there are still too many steps to be taken. I am referring to this because some of your questions relate precisely to this fact, namely that it will be followed by the drawing up of a staff and remuneration regulation, that it will be followed by the drawing up of a procurement regulation - how procurement is awarded -, the drawing up of a risk management regulation, a procedure for the proclamation and evaluation of a final management board and a number of other projects. As you know from these jobs, the process is that all these actions are coming in, there is a timetable that is being implemented. I won't bore you with such technical evidence. Where the bank is directed, we have responded to it: infrastructure - to say that through its banks we can multiply the Public Investment Programme in practice, small and medium-sized enterprises and farmers, where there is a gap and also help to meet certain needs such as the maturation of projects, the design of complex projects, the training of managers and so on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economy and Development is ringing.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President, for one, two minutes. How do we address these accusations? I said to the committee and I will repeat it here that one feature of the development banks is that they have flexibility. Some people said it's not a bank, since he doesn't get any deposits. But the development banks don't get any deposits. They wondered what kind of bank it was. The development banks have a special logic, they have flexibility. Do we, then, see a need? We can make a programme of financing this need. Do we see that there is a need for a specific product financing? We can see it, we can process it. There's a wealth. It is a constant process of development banking. For example, for farmers, an agreement has been signed with the European Investment Bank for two tools: small loans granted through the micro-credit mechanism and guarantees for larger loans, which will be provided through funds that will provide guarantees and have left open the possibility of capital participation for innovative agricultural enterprises, etc., which will also have an investment interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u104	Like JESSICA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u105	In a developed form, though. I'll answer another one. All the programs go through systemic banks? That's a technical possibility, how can you create your own mechanisms? For example, as far as I know, the German development bank also makes the evaluation of the programmes to be financed, so the bank is merely carrying out the decision. It will be difficult for us at first. It can be done later. Secondly, as far as microcredit is concerned, it will not be provided through banks. There are also banks that can provide their own microcredits. Our plan for microcredits is to create special bodies to be created to provide microcredits. It can be the chambers, it can be cooperatives, it can be cooperative banks, etc. These institutions will, of course, be governed by a statute. We'll talk about it when the law comes. In small businesses, in addition to micro-credits, in addition to guarantees for loans, there are already tools which give small businesses what they do not have, i.e. they cannot have bonds and small-scale bonds cannot be traded on the stock exchange. I am saying this, for example, to emphasise that, together with professional bodies, we can design products on the basis of needs. What will he judge the success of the project? First of all, we need to study the lessons of the past, that is, because ETVA has made it possible to study positive and negative examples. Those who do this - there are scientists who are involved in academic research dealing with them - point to us: first of all, the political system. If there are any ministers who want to intervene, they will find a way to intervene. But if we want and recognise the importance of this bank to operate over and above the political cycle, then we can, through the consensus, find those procedures that will ensure the success of the project. They are internal control issues, transparency issues, public accountability issues. Secondly, the people who must believe in the project and have the potential to implement it, and thirdly, it is also democratic, social and parliamentary control, which is always a valuable opportunity to be able to control what is being done and to point to problems and weaknesses in time. I would like to thank you for the constructive discussions we have had in the committee regardless of the attitude that each party will take, especially on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, I would like the floor, constructively, to see something done here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u107	Here you go, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, I am sorry, but what you have said to me does not correspond to the text as it is printed. That's why, in my position, I talked about a wicked technocratic factor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u109	What article are you referring to?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u110	I am referring to Article 40(2). Obviously, I am also addressing the Minister. It does not refer here to the existing tariffs, which cannot, in any case, be assessed, because it is against European regulations. It is referred to in Article: ‘False, misleading or confidential information has been submitted to the service’. These are the cases that the author of this article wants to cover. If the ratio of the device is to assist anyone by mistake who has submitted previously assessed inadvertently, it is a record of another provision rather than the one we have here. If you want to do that, tell us, talk about it and go through it in another form, most urgent suffering. This article says 'falsely and misleadingly'. It is quite different from what you said, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, I would like to speak. We can solve this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u112	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u113	In response to them, one solution would be to keep the first paragraph, for which I think there is no problem, and the second paragraph should be kept, studied and re-examined in a further bill - I think we have bills next week - if we agree on the substance that we are going to find a solution, not to cover anyone, but not to open up problems which will also have implications for workers, etc. As far as Article 45 is concerned, if I understand correctly, you agree that there is a Council decision, which we must respect. If this respect can be done with a circular issued by the ADA, we can stay in it and see. I accepted a suggestion that it doesn't cover. So we can withdraw Article 45, see if it is covered by the Circular of the independent authority and if it is not covered by it to see what is not covered and how we can fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Vice President, it's what you call it. The decision of the Council of State is sufficient and requires a circular and nothing beyond that. On the contrary, the provision poses major interpretative problems. Because with this article I have spent half my professional life, let me have an opinion. It is not required under the present case-law that the provision is formulated. Can we talk about it again? I'd love to. No one insists on the grammar interpretation of the laws to create problems on the market. However, this provision will create more market problems than it will solve.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u116	The President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u117	Anyway, it's a matter of the Ministry of Finance. We incorporated it here because it came as a problem - a request. I at least agree to keep it and see it along the way, to see it, namely, the Ministry of Finance and us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Pittsorlas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u119	Mr Tindemans, with regard to tariffs, we are talking about existing tariffs. We are talking about invoices submitted at some point and we are talking about projects - and we should clarify this, if necessary - which have been virtually completed for some time. The projects have been shut down, business has been licensed, they have been operating for years and have been in front of the remnants of the past, which is not about our period. It's yours. Projects completed. The Minister's proposal is therefore correct.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, I would like the floor to understand what the government's proposal is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u121	Don't get a seminary character. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u122	I want to see what the government's proposal is, what is true and how and what we are talking about. Are we talking about keeping the first case in Article 40 and leaving the second one in the next stage? Is that the proposal for a government? Good, thanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u123	Mr Ursouzidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, if I may, I would like to clarify in Article 40 that we have inherited these cases. We have tried to deal with them in a way that does not destroy people who have invested. And the political question is: Those who saw these'mistakes', what do they do all these years and how did they deal with them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Papaliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the - I would say - within the introductory 'development model', which has been the basis of economic policy for many decades, was dependent on lending, imports and consumption. A model that led to expanded social and regional disparities and to a collapsing, incomplete, fragmented, client-integrated and inefficient social state that collapsed with the economic crisis. The development of a new production model of sustainable and fair growth is a central priority of the SYRIZA Government after leaving the country from the memoranda. Energizes the country's development potential, strengthens its long-term prospects and shields it against threats and risks. In this direction, the Government has designed and implemented the National Development Strategy Plan, which at the same time promotes the three dimensions of growth, economic, social and environmental, thus marking the transition to a new integrated approach to development policy. The policies and reforms being implemented have started and will be more effective in the future. In this context, access to finance is without doubt subject to one of the most critical conditions for supporting the new production model and achieving high sustainable development rates. The Greek Development Bank's operation is institutionalised under the current draft law. It is an important section for the domestic financial system and the Greek economy as a whole. The Greek Development Bank is not an additional bank. It's an institution and a growth agency. He won't just finance the economy. Based on government policy, it will design and support the productive transformation it is attempting, strengthening the necessary infrastructure, developing specificities in sectors and sectors selected and promoted, entrepreneurship schemes, complex development cooperation between the State and local government and private sector, based on the strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises, newly-born, cooperative and social cooperative enterprises. All of this will be based on the comparative advantages of the country, but also of the individual regions, and will thus contribute to the transition to the new model of sustainable and fair growth. And now I come to Article 41, which deals with the less-favoured areas. It is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that in our country, apart from the major social inequalities, there are also major regional and also intra-regional disparities. Only if they are reduced can we talk about balanced development and, therefore, social and regional cohesion. The reduction of regional disparities is achieved by identifying and highlighting the least favoured areas, which are part of specific categories of aid and are treated differently from the rest and in a targeted manner. In development law, specific aid areas are identified by criteria for their mountainous character, the short distance from continental or maritime borders, the islandity and the reduction of the permanent population. However, the use of purely economic criteria such as GDP, unemployment, productive structure, for the identification of less-favoured development areas, does not allow for the inclusion in them of small spatial units. In addition, the economic indicators do not accurately reflect the reality. GDP does not determine how income is distributed, does not include data on tax evasion and tax evasion, the globe economy and does not separate income generated in an area from what is maintained in it. This is why combining geomorphological, demographic, population and other criteria, such as the disadvantaged and declining element, can be the criterion of the problem. This criterion must be applied to support disadvantaged areas in need of support. In particular this characterises areas, even non-mountain areas, in such a way that they do not only exclude themselves, but are supported by funding, institutional support and by their disadvantaged nature with favourable support, so that they can be small cores of creation. The unjust treatment of these regions must be corrected. Even if their non-deficiency results from numbers and statistics - which if it is absurd and proves that many times the numbers in the light of statistics make mistakes - this statistical picture is plastic and is disproved by the harsh reality itself. The problem criterion calls for areas other than those provided for in the development law, including those which are not favoured by it, to be included in the particular treatment. The project of the hierarchy of the regions of the country on the basis of their development dynamics involves the collection and processing of data, depicting the multidimensional image of local prosperity and the emergence of regional territorial disparities. The variables used are divided into three main categories: economy, education and demographic characteristics. Thus, on the basis of the economic dimension of the regions, account is taken of the per capita gross domestic product, gross value added per capita, per capita deposits and declared family income, as well as of the average annual unemployment rate. On the basis of the educational dimension, account shall be taken of the level of education per age group and of the demographic dimension, the ageing rate for the population over sixty-five years. At this point I would like to highlight another dimension, that of the distance between these areas, not by mileage, but by access time from the urban centres, from the seat of the individual municipalities and the capital of the municipalities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The targeted aid, therefore, to small and medium-sized enterprises active in less developed regions of the country, is linked to the cover of part of their operating costs and will be granted in accordance with the de minimis State aid procedure in such a way as to help more firms employing more employees...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Comrade, your time has passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u128	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you. The aid is oriented to enterprises active in specific sectors of the economy, industrial production, information and communication technologies and to supply supply chain and e-commerce services. In my opinion, the area of agricultural production and animal husbandry, livestock, combined with their processing should also be added. Ladies and gentlemen, following the country's exit from the memorandum policies and strict supervision, the country acquired degrees and possibilities for exercising an autonomous economic policy. Yesterday's decision on early repayment of loans to the International Monetary Fund strengthens these rates and possibilities. This does not mean that the consequences of the political decades and memoranda have come. The economic policy pursued consists, firstly, in the gradual removal of injustices in the restoration of economic and social equilibrium
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u129	Good. You're clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u130	... but also in the design and implementation of a development policy based on the new production model. This is intended to exploit the comparative advantages of the country and individual regions, incorporating innovation, synergies, structural competitiveness and extroversion into policies pursued.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u131	Finish it, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u132	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you. The current bill is part of this policy and the prospect open to the country. This is also the differential element from our political opponents, who, as has been said by themselves, put everything on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and schoolchildren and five educational attendants from the 5th General School of Kallithea. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, fourteen students and students and three teachers from the 2nd High School of Agia Varvaras. Well, welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Vorides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, today the attempt to pass a scandalous amendment, which is really a disgrace and only one dares to suggest it to Parliament and, indeed, since this amendment came yesterday, without the signatures of the relevant ministers, is being discussed without the presence of the relevant ministers, the architects of this amendment. What is this amendment? It is a harmful change in the concession contract made by the GOI with the OPCW and is intended to make the 20-year monopolistic concession in the conduct of horse races and racing bets. It has a history of this whole case and it is a shameful one, because the legal basis is supposedly being used for workers. And I will tell you what the workers themselves are saying about this agony allegedly invoked by the government. What, then, is the history of this case? The conduct of horse races once was state. The DEAD had it. It was decided to privatise. Yes, sir. An international tender procedure was followed. She had her tops and bottoms. It was a question of how the terms would be described. But there was an international competition. In this international competition, one of the "S.E. Racings" with the main shareholder of the OPAP was included, and a new contract was concluded on the basis of the terms of this tender. One of the conditions of this competition was the payment of a lease. This rental was for the use of horse racing facilities on the Markopoulou horse race and was agreed at around EUR 2,200,000 per year for twenty years. This was in 2015. Calculate how many years they've been left. Today comes the concessionaire, who is doing the following. By violating the obligation of the OPAP, i.e. not to say the OPAP, the S.A. horse racing, the main shareholder of which is the OPAP, comes and stops the horse racing, and has a minimum number of horse races. It stops them. What does that have to do with it? The coaches are not paid, the riders are not paid, the horse racing owners do not get prizes, the workers who are around this activity are not paid and the S.E. racing does so in contravention of the contractual terms and it comes and says: 'You know? I'm losing money from horse racing, so I don't care about horse racing, and I'm stopping my obligation to run horse racing. There is a problem for the workers and you come to me to improve the terms of the contract." That's what's happening. Now he comes here with this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, and what does he say? Do you know how much the rent will be? There will be, he says, a valuer in common who will determine it as a percentage of gross revenue. Do you know what the street says about renting? Of the EUR 2,200 000 will go to 200,000. Do you know how much the government loses from this? It is 30 million in the course of the contract. What else did Mr. Chakalotos tell us here, comfortable, nice and relaxed, also criticizing whether my finances are good or not? I also accept the possibility of merging the S.A. company with the OPAP. Why does he accept that, and why are they asking for it? Because the S.A. racing lost 30 to 40 million, they have losses, they will carry the losses to the profitable OPCW, so they will save 25% of the tax. Another $10 million lost to the public. How much did I say? 30 million plus 10 million is 40 million. But there's another nice one. The nice thing is that when they took the hippodrome, the hippodrome had certain uses of land. Now they come and say: No, we enlarge the uses of land, you can do other things. I come here and ask this. This all harms the public interest. You are turning the House into a laundry once again of harmful changes in contracts, which serve specific individual or business interests, because behind the horse racing, behind and from the OPCW there are shareholders who benefit. And you put the workers, the ones affected. Why, who is blackmail, ladies and gentlemen? "If you do not give us what we want, we do not fulfil our obligation to conduct races." And because they also control a number of media, since yesterday I have been under attack of the style "the Vorides does not care about the three thousand workers", those I have supported them at the time when they were fighting and against privatization and who have left people without work. I support them now 15 years in Markopoulos and they will tell me that I'm hurting them from above! Workers themselves are coming in with their announcement that the state will offer 40m euros, 15m euros rents, will change the use of land, without any commitment to the development of horse racing. It is foreseen within the provision of this amendment that when they are spending on the horse race, they will, please, be deducted from rent. In other words, with the money of the public rent, the concessionaire will sit down to do any of his development. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you'll give me two minutes and I'll be done. And I ask you this: if anyone knew at the time when the international competition was going to pay 2,200 000 a year, but will he pay 200, that he will not have these uses of land, but will he have other people, that he can deduct his rent, that he will even have the possibility, if he does any damage, to go merge it with a profitable business, so that he does not pay tax, would he only be one who will participate in this tender? What are we coming today and saying? All these unilaterally harmful changes are made and the House is turned into a washing machine. To inform the Ministers, because they might be missed by a legal detail. When Parliament ratifys contracts, it does not function regulatoryly, so the responsibilities of the ministers are not exonerated. It does not mean that because it passes through here, when it is not Parliament's regulatory authority, it is being discharged of their responsibilities for the damage of the public. If anyone's told them that, let them know they're being told wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u135	We will then adjust it. We'll legislate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u136	So I come to say this: all these harmful to the public interest - and this is not the first time, this is the case 'Third number 2' - are done with the impossibility that they are covering the workers, take care, without any development commitment. There is not a single condition in which investment must be made, about how many horse racing must be carried out, about how horse racing must be developed every year. Nothing! And, having already made the concession in a previous bill, they come to effectively give control of the regulator, Philippous Union, to the adjustable "Railways S.A." I am sorry, there is no government that would be understood to do these things and it would not be here at least to support this lousy piece of legislation on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u137	Mr Shahinides, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to express my sympathy and sympathy to the French people and not only to all Christian Catholics, because the reference made is not about a UNESCO cultural monument, but about a church that was in operation. No one mentioned what has been said about what has been written online. They have been posted on too many websites, on too many blogs, comments and posts by Muslims about how pleased this fact was. Ask yourself, regarding this multiculturality, if the Omar Mosque or Blue Jamie was burned and the corresponding comments by Christians, what would have been the reaction of your own constitutional arch. Regarding the draft law for the development we are discussing, I will invoke a post yesterday on the economic paper "NAYTTERRIKI", where there is in an article the position of Deputy Minister of Economy, Mr. Pitsirla, and the placement of the Regional Director of Central Macedonia, Mr. Djikkosta, who took part in an economic forum at "Money Show", which took place from 12 to 14 of the month, that is, the Friday weekend that passed us. He tells us that the Minister said that Greece is coming out of the rescue programmes, having recovered - you are paying attention here - a significant degree of freedom - that is, in short, an assumption that only in a free country we do not live and that we are only dependent on systemic banks - and with a qualitative change in its economy that is certified by the following indicators. It mentions exports, i.e. in the last two, three years there has been an increase in exports. At a previous meeting I told you that Greece today, unfortunately, even the bells we use in the churches and monasteries import from neighboring Turkey. If that is what you consider to be a development, we consider it a disaster. I was also surprised that our country, in the statement by the Minister, is being called upon to adapt its strategy to the new reality defined by the new European economy, which is attempting to turn high-cost disadvantages into an advantage and is being mentioned as to how important the position of the city of Thessaloniki and central Macedonia is. So also from the statement made by Mr. Djijkosta, who will read it to you, is confirmed by the Golden Dawn regarding what he has said in relation to spatial planning. It is no coincidence that the only region in Greece that has implemented the so-called'space-floor' is the Region of Central Macedonia. In fact, the regional statement is: "The decade that comes will be the decade of Thessaloniki and Macedonia". This was stressed by the principal, by making special reference to the privatizations - concessions of basic infrastructure, that is, the port, the airport which opens great potential for development. In other words, here you are indeed admitting the rulers, but also the Civic Opposition, that for you the development is the sale of the basic infrastructure and assets of the Greeks. To go to a more general commentary. You are trying to convince the Greek people today that the best days are coming and, indeed, the first samples of writing independently of the Greek economy from the bonds of the shameful memoranda are the creation of the bank we are discussing today. In fact, it was heard by the Deputy Prime Minister that the Development Bank is a financial instrument and that we as Golden Dawn through our speaker do not understand it. But it is clear that this is not a bank and has a clear consultative character. He even mentioned the Deputy Prime Minister as helping farmers. If you want to help farmers, do the proposal of the Golden Dawn to set up a committee of inquiry, which will look for why the Agricultural Bank was sold, which was the only real financial instrument for farmers, when the loans of the New Democracy and PASOK were requested and sold 10 days later. There you will show us that you really want a growth from a bank, as I mentioned earlier, which will be of an advisory nature. So, what are you telling us here? You tell us that a bank that will undertake a project, will have a purely advisory nature and will not manage the money, will be paid. In fact, you say that her role will not be to make money. One question arises here: Since there will be no profits, what serious private investor, who wants only profits, will want to invest in such a bank? This bank therefore comes to replace the work that banks should have done, which the Greek people have recapitalised on several occasions, the banks that literally destroyed the Greek economy, and the banks, which will finance any investment or development programme, should receive advice from another body, who will decide whether and who should be financed. Whether it will be independent of this bank can be well assumed and whether it will depend on the governments concerned. Under no circumstances will this Development Bank be able to operate unless we had a national state. Here, this national state would be the only way for the Development Bank to exist as an institution. But the question is whether this institution is not the instrument that will allow the reconstruction of the national economy, which you are evangelizing, but is formed only for its manipulation and the distribution of funds to your own virtues, your Government, as a gift for the support it has given you in recent years. But to look at the first steps of this new institution, which were announced by the creators themselves. According to the President-in-Office, in an article on the subject, this bank is set up by setting its objectives and, of course, the areas on which it will operate. As he rightly describes, this new bank is created so that, by absorbing any European budget line there is to make it available, of course to 'weaker' entrepreneurs in order to fill gaps in market failures, and by supporting some development projects, which will meet the financial needs of those who support the government rather than the national interest. This is why, Mr Vice-President, we could say - and I have nothing personal against you - how you understand growth. So we have a firm example of the Attica project on insurance in the Megaron area, in the Pineea region, which completely accidentally stopped right outside the door of your country house and I would like an answer from you. I am available to ask for a public apologies if that is not the case, as I would like you to apologise, if that is the case, for the Greek people. There is a report in which various references are made. In fact, it is about the announcement made by the Region of Attica that it cannot be a project that will enable the public not to be completed, because there is a political person. Accepted. Our point here, Mr. Vice President, is that in the picture the journalists took their own eyes off.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u139	Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u140	I told you I don't have anything personal. No, I'm not ashamed. You should be ashamed of yourself, because I'm going to testify to it in the Minutes. And you were wrong to address what you were talking about whether or not I should be ashamed of, because I told you that I was willing to apologize if that was not the case. Are you ready, Mr. Vice President? I did not say that I took this post and accept it as it is, but I am simply telling you that I was impressed by the picture they took, because it seems clear here - and it is at the disposal of the rest of Parliament - that we are stopping insurance in front of it. If your home is the last, accepted, and I apologize in advance, that the road should really be over there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u141	First you stink and then you say sorry! First the dirt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u142	I didn't eat first. Stop it! If there's someone who stinks, it's you repeatedly. The dirt is you in here, up to the bottom! You're dirty. Mr President, what right interrupts me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Xydakis, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u144	And I would like to make it clear, so I have told you, before I referred to this here, that if it is true and there is no other house, acceptable, and I apologize in advance. But if there are houses beyond this scrubbing, you'll have to explain why insurance has stopped right in front of the entrance to the house. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have absolutely no reason, I have nothing personal with you. I got the post.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u145	That's what everyone says.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u146	No, that's not what we say. That's the reality, Mr. Vice President. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u147	The dirt doesn't end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u148	Please, Mr. Papadopoulos, do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u149	We see it, how clean you are, let it go! Your comments elsewhere, not me. You're dirty from top to bottom if you're talking to me. What makes the most impression, however, as it is on dangerous roads, is that, according to Mr Vice-President, the objective of economic development through this bank in the Balkans - and it also announces the creation of a branch of the bank in Thessaloniki, where it will promote cross-border cooperation - all this is nothing but the economic concession of all northern Greece to entrepreneurs from the Skopje side and who, in cooperation with the economic local symphony, accompanied by the Prime Minister in Greece, will, with a grant from the Greek State, exploit all the advantages that you have gained and which you have given to the treachery agreement between the Ambassadors. In conclusion, the Development Bank is nothing more, unfortunately, but the continuation of the policy of endowment and the concession of the national gains to all kinds of turf-like investor. The purely accounting of the economy from the political remnants therefore leaves room for growth, rather than a accumulation of wealth to those who are chosen. For us, the economy must focus on balanced development and growth that will impose its sovereignty on Skopje-forms. The creation of a strong economic power in the wider region is not by surviving the expansive views of the Turks, with economic zones from illegal immigrants and forms north of our borders. And, of course, all this in relation to growth could only be a reality when governance is exercised by a national government alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u150	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u151	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u152	I have some legislative improvements to put forward. Some are what I have already said, some are just technical improvements. I accept the amendment tabled and signed by Mr Morfidis and other Members first. The other amendments tabled by the Communist Party of Greece are not acceptable, but they can be tabled through the parliamentary procedure because the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is doing a job on the issue of production costs and therefore a debate can be held on what forms and sources of costs can be dealt with, which can now be later. In fact, if you have seen a number of overpriced cases, which are unfortunately happening and which also raise production costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u153	You represent an organization for criminal offences, you are accused of being murderers and coming here and picking up a dirty post in your mouth, because the only weapon the fascists have all over the world is slander. That's not new.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u154	Does the presumption of innocence not apply to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u155	Listen to me! I guess it's not you or I'm sorry I want from you or anything. When my term of office is over, when it's over, I'm going to make an account and within the account of my work, I'm going to apologize for my scandals, I'm going to apologize for the armored Venizelos Mercedes, which I'm supposed to have, I'm going to apologize for the way that was supposed to be for me, I'm going to apologize for the one million, my daughter was supposedly taken. But I will not apologise for the slandering you are making to my children. Well, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u156	Where did you hear that? Did you hear that from me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u157	You don't know that either? What your comrade Zaroulia said you don't know about that? In any case, you are a cheap slander who comes to Parliament to say what you said, just sit down and sit down, and there is some dirt, some mud. So my answer is that. When I'm done, I'll apologize for the Mercedes which I'm supposed to have for the roads I'm supposed to be and for all the issues, all the dirt that you and some others have written in their papers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute because there has been a personal referral.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u159	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u160	Firstly, I have not personally referred to any of what the Vice-President has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u161	It was the staff post.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u162	I've been so clear from the outset that no one can blame me for anything about whether I'd intended to stink someone. The dirt doesn't stink with anything. I wanted a clear answer as to whether a post that I have not written is true, and I have also tabled a photo. If Mr. Vice President thinks he might be able to talk about dirt, like I said before, she's dirt you can't get her dirty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u163	Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirteen students and students and two teachers from the school of the Netherlands, from Theresialyceum school in the Netherlands. The House welcomes them. Welcome! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Dimitrios Mardas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to Rule 30 of the legislation to be passed on to fuel. And you will allow me first to make a few comments, which are referred to in the rapporteur for KINAL, who has referred to delays in implementing certain measures, and I will not disagree there. But I would like to ask you this: Do you remember when the first joint ministerial decisions of L.3054/2002 came out, and also the first joint ministerial decisions referred to in L.4012/2012, L.415/2013 and L.4177/2013? I am referring to a period from 2002 to 2013. The first joint ministerial decisions, as you refer to delays, were made on 16 December 2015 after 13 years of delay. I come to this particular article, which seeks to lock this fuel-trafficking system even further. As you all know, it is a difficult documentary, you all know the resistance and you all know the problems that are being faced, but at least despite any delays - which some of them are interpreted by technical problems - measures are adopted, which are in the right direction. The criticisms of any delays are therefore accepted, but at some point it should be noted that the measures adopted are in the right direction. And here we have, if you like, some other measures, which refer to LPG. LPG was not discovered in 2015, there has been a long time. But the policy to supervise the movement of LPG starts from 2015 onwards. And here we have a method of measuring which is first adopted in conjunction with article 71 of Law 4183/2018 and three of the 2018 MUL still continues. This whole process seeks to ensure that the market is better supervised and, indeed, it succeeds. I am referring to LPG, which is not something that has started to be used in the area of traffic in recent years, because the whole time there has been one - if you want - to leave the public, as the excise duty on LPG is EUR 430 tonne, in the traffic is EUR 60 tonne. We all knew and know that heating is used to move. And for many years there has been a loss of revenue of EUR 370 per tonne plus 24% VAT, a total of EUR 458.80 per tonne. I come to make one final point, if you want, in the form of a study, and it is related to fines imposed not only on fuel but on every place where there is much black money. These areas are the sites of every form of smuggling - fuels, drinks, cigarettes - and so are the drug sector. Where there is a lot of 'black' money, it will certainly be good - this is an approach to study - fines to be data, irrevocably and without fluctuations in the imposition of fines. A fine, for example, for any offence linked to any irregularity relating to the smuggling of fuels, which is of the order of EUR 10 000 to EUR 10 000, you understand that in the context of a difficult market where there is a lot of 'black' money, this fine of EUR 10 000 to EUR 10 000 can always be determined either in the context of a judicial decision or in the context of administrative decisions. Therefore, where it is found that there is a possibility of a bilateral or use of any ‘black’ money for the purpose of affecting any decisions, irrevocably fines are cutting down any crises which could be in favour of some who have been unlawful. We've worked on this. And I present to Parliament a proposal, as a proposal for a study, which refers to the infringements provided for in Law 3054/2002, where all of which is given and linked - I repeat - with fine limits, we limit it to another set, where fixed and unnegotiable fines are given, which cannot be changed either in the context of judicial decisions or in the context of any other administrative bodies. I'm making the suggestion. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Mardas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr Marda, for keeping time. Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of the Development Bank is, in fact, an important fact, a demand for the business world and I would particularly say to small and medium-sized enterprises for some time now. After all, our country is the only one that had no Development Bank in the countries of the European Union. It has indeed been delayed in its creation, but it has been announced, the draft law we are discussing is being introduced and it is characteristic that the business world has welcomed this initiative, which has also been seen in the process of the Trade Committee, where the operators had been invited. So away from past malnutrition in the banking system, the development bank is trying to fill gaps that systemic banks cannot. In fact, here we will say features that they are not in competition with commercial banks, and it also works complementaryly. The aim is to finance cooperatives, small and medium-sized enterprises, public bodies, recommendation, participation and support for newly created enterprises and all of this. It also provides advice, know-how, training in enterprises. The very important thing is that it can really function as an ambassador to our country, ensuring some funding from agencies outside our country. World Bank, EBRD and others. Tools of the development bank are micro-credits, guarantees, participation in the company's share capital. Ladies and gentlemen, we have entered another era now. We've been out of the memorials, we've had a rough time in recent years. But something that should not be underestimated is that growth rates are getting better. The Greek ten-year bonds become sick, I'd say. BLOOMBERG said yesterday that 2.5 billion international investors were snatched - he said features - last month Greek bonds. Two and a half billion international investors, 2.5 billion, I mean as far as capital is concerned, so as not to get us wrong. The Greek debt is after all wanted worldwide. Exports have increased and last year they recorded a record. This year is estimated another 10% increase by the end of the year according to the President of the Exporters Association, and again I will come back to the BLOOMBERG agency, in a study involving economists in a specific survey, where he said the recovery of GDP in Greece is important. It went beyond the recovery of GDP in European Union countries with 1.9 us and 1.4 on average in the euro area. Greece is in the tenth place in the countries of Europe. All of this is indicative and important for the course of the Greek economy. I now come to the chapter on investment which we are all talking about, and I believe we all want national thinking. It is not a small thing that it closed in 2018 with some 4 billion foreign direct investment less than 4 billion. It is very important for an investor, for the investment environment, to have stability in the country, and here I shall address the Vice-Presidents. We received a country in 2015 in a state of bankruptcy and no one should forget that, a bankruptcy that you New Democracy and PASOK brought into the country. We have received a country with a damaged production base, and now we are in the process of building from the beginning on new bases, of course, with a new development model, healthy, sustainable, a new system, which will always be along the way and will follow the principles of sustainable development for 2030 set by the UN, with particular attention being paid to the dimension of climate change that must be inextricably linked to the development model. Now, of course, I see a Member who was here in the New Democracy has left the Chamber. I believe at least some people listen to me. Maybe it's annoying what we're talking about. You're talking about taxation. Greece is a quarter of the ninety OECD countries in relation to taxes. But you know, gentlemen, the investor first of all, except for the issue of stability as a country, are the terms, conditions, the environment is the investment, it is the fixed tax system, the existence of spatial planning, clear land use, land registers, forest maps, demarcated archaeological sites. So many decades New Democracy and PASOK what did they do to all these things? It's us now that we're trying. The forest maps are completed, the land register goes on. I ask a question: Did this anarchy, the lack of rules, limits, serve the decades specific interests? Was it not accidental that these rules were not there? When we talk about investment, then, big strategic investments are important, and this bill has an important chapter on it. Great investment, however, is not only tourism, it is not big malls, it is not just this model of large investment. It is important to strengthen the country's production base, its production reconstruction, industry and processing. The figures show even in the industrial sector last year - and this continues - the increase in industrial production. In the capital on strategic investments, there were clearly failures in the previous law of 2010. It is no coincidence that only fifteen projects in the 2010 Act have been incorporated and no one has been implemented. A key feature of this law and the course, in terms of investments, of not checking the characterised investment as a strategy to implement the conditions of authorisation. That's very important. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. This draft law introduces innovations, incentives, rapid licensing, fixed rate of taxation, wage costs subsidy ESDP, arbitration procedure and much more. But you, gentlemen, - and with this I close - live in your fairy tale. You continue the catastrophe, distortion and let me and the defamation of the country and country sometimes with all this, because you're afraid of losing the game. You keep falling out of everything. From the evaluations that will not close, from the memoranda, from the pensions that have not been cut, the country's exit into the markets and so on. The enthusiasm of the opposition parties is important, especially those that have been ruling for decades and have brought the country here that has brought it and is now trying to recover. I close with this: Gentlemen of counterpopulation, envy is the mask of fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u168	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u169	The Ministers. Some legislative improvements have been made, and I want to ask something about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u170	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u171	Minister, in Article 41 - which is why I cannot understand you - you wrote in the bill, firstly, that it is intended for e-commerce, because it is for information and communication technologies and now you are e-commerce and you say 'creative industry'. What's the creative industry? Secondly, you wrote 'if you are concerned about one worker', and now you put 'at least if wage costs amount to EUR 30 000 per year'. And thirdly, you're reducing in Article 2 from 10,000 to 6,000. What's changed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u172	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u173	I want someone to answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u174	The questions have been asked, the Minister will come and answer you. Mr. Papadopoulos from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, today, we are discussing the establishment of the Development Bank, an essential tool for the productive reconstruction of our country. I would like to focus on the primary sector. After the sale of the Agricultural Bank, the agricultural sector did not have a tool so that it could have its uninterrupted funding. We see people here at the moment condemning or not voting for these bills and having voted for the abolition and sale of the Agricultural Bank. I think the Minister has accepted several requests and said that the agricultural sector will also have a developmental nature in this bill. It is very important that the agricultural primary and livestock sector enters into this planning in order to be able to obtain uninterrupted funding. I would like to tell you, Minister, that these loans are very important to us farmers for two main reasons: firstly, because the farmer is going to have liquidity, who can obtain his supplies, and secondly, in this way, having liquidity, he can achieve better prices in his agricultural products. We have other financial instruments, like the Farmer's Card. However, I believe that this is not enough, because many times the large majority of farmers have very low a check, which is not sufficient to finance the work they need. I would suggest, in some way, that along the way by creating this bank, we build a tool specifically for the cultivation loans and supplies of farmers as they used to be, that is, that there are loans that will be about - an indicative figure I will mention - EUR 100 the acre that the farmer can use, mainly to buy his supplies and grow. In this way the farmer will not be the prerogative of the traders of the supplies and industries who have entered this game, and so far they continue to provide farmers with supplies by binding them and compulsory production to them. I think that the trade in agricultural products will also be streamlined. I would also like the Development Bank to see it get flesh and bone, so that we also have a result, since we have been saying in these years that we need such a tool for development. Of course, it will not be the Agricultural Bank as we used to know it. It will, however, be a bank which will help the agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. You've also been succumbing to time. Mr Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not going to deal with the bill at all. In any case, it's not a development bank or a bank. It's not worth it any more. You're doing a very delayed and very small arrangement. I shall speak about the amendment to the bill, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, because I always enjoy the moral advantage of the Left. We've jumped to moral advantage. Mr Marda - you who are extremely sensitive - should assume that we had Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and we had a contract signed by a company with the Greek State, under which he was obliged to pay EUR 2,200 000 a year for the next twenty years, and for the "h" reasons Mr Marinakis' company failed to pay this price. And instead of going to the courts to claim the dues and to carry out the property of Mr Marinakis, who, thank God, covers this rental which he owes, that Kyriakos Mitsotakis should come to Parliament as Prime Minister and that he should legislate with this: to waive his right to go to the courts for the twenty-year contract; to reduce the price from EUR 2,200 000 per year to EUR 200,000 per year; to add favourable tax arrangements either to offset the losses or to set off the costs which he will make in order to make up the facilities that were not provided for in the original contract; to give Marina grosso modo a few hundred million. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] So I wonder: What would Mr Xydakis say underneath the government of Marinaki by Mr Mitsotakis? Only, ladies and gentlemen, here the investor is not called Marinakis but OPAP and has Greek shareholders, as you know. And now all of a sudden, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and the first time on the left, you SYRIZA's colleagues, are swallowing this 40 million present. Let's go now and see what the gift consists of, not to say again that Georgiadis says that. I therefore read from the explanatory statement: 'We have had a contract for twenty years'. Yes, sir. In the second paragraph, it states: 'It has not been possible to avoid any injurious effects'. Wait a minute! There was a competition. The competition was won by a company. He could have been won by another company. This company measured its risk and said "I will pay EUR 2,200 000 a year and do these expenses to build the facilities" and make a contract with the Greek public binding. For the 'h' reasons - I will accept it - the company's calculations were wrong. Excuse the wrong calculations, Mr. Xydakis, the private company will pay them the Greek State and indeed with SYRIZA's vote? Come on, Christ and Holy Mary! If we had signed 'NOVARTIS' this, we would have been taken straight to the Koudalus! Vaxevan, instead of fifty headlines, he would have done me five hundred! But now that it's the first time left, here's what it's nice to do. I'll read it so people can figure it out. Here's how they're gonna get in jail. And you should know, Mr President-in-Office, that, of course, the vote of the House as decided by the Council of State, if it does not come from a regulation, does not discharge the penal responsibilities of the Minister. And since we have heard Mr. Tsipras yesterday, say that you are perforated for every control - with these strange 'Fatsea-type' greek - Mr. Xydakis, who do indeed like Greeks, I should like to read you what you are voting on. Listen. And I address the Greek people. Paragraph 3 shall delete the seventh subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 4 of the lease agreement, which provides that rent shall remain unaffected during the contractual term of rental of the property. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, what are you voting on? You SYRIZA's in 2015 have passed a law. The Act is committed by the investor to guarantee a total of twenty years and cannot claim a reduction in the rent. That's what the investor has already signed. You've made it a law of the Greek state. On that basis, if you take the investor who now says he's not paying to court, you get him the full amount of twenty years. Instead of doing this, bring what you bring to the House! I'll read it back to you. I - in my word! - if I were asked to bring it as Minister, I would say to them: "Go on your own to prison. Don't go hanging out." I reread it: ‘With paragraph 3, the seventh subparagraph of Article 4(1) of the Leasing Convention, which provides that rent will remain unaffected during the contractual term of rental of the property, is deleted.’ He resigns, that is, the public's right to the law! Then you put the valuer, who - he says - will have to look at the different elements of the market. Excuse me, when the investor entered the contest, didn't he put a valuer on to tell him what the reasonable price is? So this great investor, the OPAP and his Greek partner, put his money in and signed the contract and took the contest without having put an esteemer on him that this rent he has agreed is too big? Watch out for the best now! Assuming market conditions have changed, this is very strange, because this contract was signed in 2015 and we are now in 2019. You tell us the economy is going great and you have great success story. So assuming that market conditions have changed, they would have changed only upwards and not downwards, compared to 2015, and even far down as you do here. So, having thought and without the Minister having answered at all the major ones, I would like to ask what would happen if in the initial contest instead of putting EUR 2,200 000 a year, you put EUR 200,000 a year and instead of having the investor normally pay the losses, you have taken it out with a company that is active. So what did you do? One of the investors, the OPAP in this case, has profits and has to pay the Greek State a ‘n’ amount. Now you say to him: "What damage you suffer in your company will be offset by the OPAP". So who's paying for that money? The Greek taxpayer's paying for it! Because this money leaves the tax it would pay to the Greek State. So, you're-- be careful-- how many gifts. Gift one: He waives the public's right to go to court and get all the money. Gift Two: They tell him to set off and thus earn all losses by not paying tax to the Greek State. Gift three: A paragraph is added that now it can offset the works it does on the racetrack and make them off the price. I mean, be careful, he'll build a wall, go an invoice and the wall he'll paint will be paid by the Greek taxpayer, not by the investor. Well, I'm sorry, you're not writing a law: "We want to give you 40 million", with the signature of wide "first time left" underneath, why do we want to finish? Why are you confusing us with various laws and recitals and such? Well, listen, because you're really perforated and open and towely and, of all, I don't want any of you to have the illusion that any of these scandalous and retreat things that you're making perverts to our attention. We're watching it all, and whoever signs it like that will go to jail, so we can be informed. This is cannabis infidelity against the Greek state and the rest is researcher. However, there is no doubt as to the infidelity of the article I have read. Your friend, Mr. Vaxevanis, will explain it to you. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty two students and the students and two trainers from the Standard Experimental Gymnasium of the University of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The list of speakers has been completed and we will be passing on to the Members of Parliament who have not spoken. Mr. Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Madam President. With today's Development Bank bill, another act is added, one more project, a very large project, which, together with the rescue of the Greek economy and Greek society in the years of the memorandum, was undertaken by the SYRIZA Government, the task of regenerating the Greek economy and a new orientation. It is a task for modernization and democratisation of the administration, modernisation of the framework for the economy and the foundations for a new targeting, for a new placement of the Greek economy in global division. The Greek economy was found defenseless and weak, unarmed in the storm of 2008. In 2010 it crashed under the burden of international problems and the lack of its own preparation. For decades the Greek economy has been based on this triangle of interlocutory, which has been described as: banks, executive power and media. It has been recorded and described and analysed in academic books and in politics books. It has also been recorded and recognised by political forces that we have an economy that in 2019 does not know exactly what added value its economic activity produces. You can't just hang on tourism. You cannot just hang on to some services, which are moving here and there in the international environment. You need to have a skeleton. They are big questions, which all Greek society is asked to answer first and most responsible, with more heavy responsibility, political order, but also the academic community and scientists and journalists and all major political organisations. Here we hear a song, a monotonous song from Acoustic Opposition that Left and SYRIZA have an ideal against investment. These songs are unsubstantiated, without appealing to the Greek institutions that measure the performance of the Greek economy and the fundamental figures and even to the images of the international organizations and institutions. We know that in order to attract investment, because this is the candy alone of the New Democracy - Mr. Dendias has added another one, he has acknowledged the need for a state planning - there is a need for stable rules and a stable framework and I think everyone recognizes that steps have been taken in this direction. It needs a stable spatial planning framework, the other person who will build, where he will invest, how it works. In this the government in the crisis has taken many steps. Set up the forest maps. It's going through the register in quick steps. It separates where economic action is to be taken and under what conditions. The law of the corporation has quickly moved forward. Today presents the Development Bank bill. And as a symbol of international observers, it has stabilised the country's great image, its fiscal and credit rating, so that it can claim out of the expensive loans of the International Monetary Fund, have stabilised the Greek state's bond market and pave the way for the upgrading of its credit rating and, therefore, both banks and Greek businesses, so that they can find easier ways on the financial markets. There is still a great tax reform, which only the SYRIZA Government can do, and there is also a reform that takes time and codecision by many political forces for a substantial improvement in the functioning of justice, which affects economic operation, particularly in administrative courts. The figures, figures and overall picture in 2019 show what this government achieved, along with the exit from the memorials, in creating terms and conditions for an economic regeneration, for a reconstruction of economics. When, for foreign direct investment, as the Ministry of Development's political leadership has referred to in detail during the committees, we have reached a high level since 2006, when the EUR 4 billion has reached direct foreign investment, about 2% of GDP and when it is possible, with the triggering of new financial instruments, to increase and reach what we call the 'average of the European Union', which, of course, has not accepted the shock and weakening of GDP and the downfall in the unprecedented recession, these are the things that foreign investors are taking into account. It is also what the Greek citizen has to understand that they are beginning to affect his own economic life in everyday life. These are the elements which show that we are at the beginning of a virtuous cycle. Unfortunately, the Civic Opposition mainly, the Right, which has played a leading role in distorting growth throughout the post-war Greece, in whatever morbid and weak remained and led us to the shipwreck, cannot see these. What leads to it is only rabies for returning to power and through power to achieve elementary coherence between some who claim to be liberal - at least in their words or conduct - and some who relentlessly can flirt with the most vulgar-right elements, with the most vulgar anti-democratic elements embodied in Greek society. When the Right talks about suspicious or corruption phenomena to us, they will have to answer what happened - one is in progress, the other is still in court - the two biggest scandals of many decades, the "SIEMENS" scandal and the "NOVARTIS" scandal, which is in progress and is being investigated, and how they appeared in Greece. Both came from the United States. There they escaped, there the evidence first came to Greece. No Greek authority, no political power, no Greek judge - he may have had the potential - was moved to find them. What we have seen and for which he spoke the other day about the 'SIEMENS' scandal is an unprecedented influx of black money, political money. EUR 15 million a year was issued for bribes and hatreds. Over 65 million have been found to have invaded Greek political funds to close jobs. This was the growth that was achieved. From this whole story, which has troubled the Greek economy and political life for decades, those who gave the money are unavoidable. Mr. Christoferkos is protected because of his German citizenship from the German state. Mr Karavelas is between Montevideo and Buenos Aires or I don't know which other resort in South America. Those who said they knew nothing were written in their dating books. How many times did Mr. Mitsotakis meet, in how many social and private meetings now, with the fugitive, Mr. Christoforikos? How many times have I been logged? How many did they know? The only people who have paid are Mr. Mandelis and Mr. Tsukatos. Everyone else is innocent of blood, and they are able to go up to the chairs of the election cafés and take out flirts. The same has happened with the meetings of Mr. Fruz of NOVARTIS, another major international scandal imported by the United States. Everyone accepted that they met and knew who the Guardian was and all the evidence came out, such as appointments, meetings, correspondence, instructions, preparations for legal work and ready provisions, which went to ministerial offices. I wish they didn't. I wish all these evidence could prove to the audience powerless. I wish for the political system, for the Parliamentary Republic and for the Greek citizens, who no longer believe in what has happened over the past decades and demand justice. As far as Mr Vorides' objections to the amendment are concerned, the Minister for Finance gave some initial explanations. Politics at some point must decide whether or not an economic activity continues or falls. The Minister of Finance is at our disposal. He gave his explanations. It will appear along the way whether it is worth having this economic activity and maintaining people, or whether, as colleagues have said here, it is criminality and it is infidelity. However, as far as those who cry on the microphones to write the seven-minute YouTube about today's publicity consumption are concerned, let us remind those who are watching us, those who see us, that they themselves in this Step of the House made questions for arms dealers and their bosses, then the party leaders were found with offshore and are still persecuted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr Xydakis, for the time. Mr Koutsoukos has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as Mr Xydakis has tried in his mild words to justify the government's policy, the truth and the reality are one, that we are in the process of going ahead with this government majority and at this stage the government is trying to hide behind bridges, false progressive alliances and discrimination, Ragosimides and Jumacians. That's the reality. It's not just that he's trying to hide. It is that Mr. Tsipras, who invited them to cooperate with him, has already offended them. I mean, he's using them first and then he spit them out. He was asked by Mr Hatzinikolau last night about enlargement with PASOK Ministers - you know, those who destroyed the country, as your narrative says, the forty years that are ruling - and he said: 'They must have regretted'. I now say to Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, Minister of PASOK in 2010, Mr Ragosi, Secretary of our party and first Minister of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Giorgos Papandreou, Mr Jumakas, Minister of Government of Papandreou and Simitis, Mr Bolaris, Minister of Government A. Papandreou, Mr Moraitis, Minister of Government, and to all of them: Can they come to a public position here in the Step of the House and tell us what they regretted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Spirtzi has forgotten.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u183	And Mr. Spirtzi obviously, who had an effective role in our party, which is indebted and he knows why. So they should come here and tell us what action they have taken and what they have regretted. And I say this, ladies and gentlemen, to highlight the arguments of the collapsed majority, which on the one hand makes fat lies and mocking ears, and on the other hand makes arrangements and arrangements with big interests and lenders, that is, those serving its five-year-old policy, which is the longest-lasting Memorandum Government. Let me use some examples of what Mr Tsipras said yesterday. Mr Tsipras said yesterday in Mr Hatzinikolaou's question: 'As far as we are ruling,' he said - '...the tax will not be reduced'. Obviously the duty-free, as the government majority has voted on, is reduced by 1-1-2020 and it is clear that 1-1-2020 will not be Mr Tsipras Prime Minister, it will not be the SYRIZA Government. He's throwing the ball into the next government. In support of my arguments, ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing to say but to you in the Minutes about the Eurogroup's decision on 5 to 2019 which welcomes the Greek Government's statement - the presence of Mr Tsakalotou - that he will insist on tax reforms, including the broadening of the tax base. I've got it in my file. No one's questioning her. I will now testify to the Minutes as soon as I get off the Step. What else did Mr Tsipras say yesterday when they asked him whether from what is considered a surplus and comes from the blood of the people, excessive taxation and contributions, he would make new benefits? He said, yes, we'll have a budget space and see how we handle it. Ladies and gentlemen, a government-sponsored budgetary area, which confirms it every day and in the Eurogroup I mentioned earlier, that 3.5% will have good by 2022, because that means six to seven billion on anaemic growth, which will be below 2%. The ordinary Greek citizen understands when you take out this surplus from where it comes from when growth is at such a low rate. We've seen too many arrangements lately. I asked the government's financial staff, but also the Parliament's Budget Office, in our debate: why should we reduce the share tax from 15% to 10% made by the left government? Is it promoting investment by small and medium-sized enterprises? Does he create jobs? Is this the policy that we need to do in reducing taxes if we have a budget area free of charge, or should we do what the Change Movement has proposed, for example, that for every new job in the small and medium-sized enterprises we give off more than 50% of payroll costs? It's a simple question. In today's bill, the government attempted to legitimise some illegal expenditure on investment laws. There's been a conversation. Mr Constantinople raised this issue from the outset and was a key point in his report. The New Democracy does not know, whether it hadn't understood or had other reasons. We're glad he's written with us and forced Mr. Drasakis to get it back. I would like to repeat that we do not want any business that works, no investment that has been made, to close, but we want to know who they are, and what the cost is for the ordinary Greek citizen to continue operating without paying the price of his illegality. And as Mr Drasakis said, if he brings it back again, we are here to help find a solution like this. In this, too, the bill was also the offshore arrangement. The Scientific Committee of Parliament tells you - if you read them - that this provision of Rule 45 is incomplete, because the matter has been resolved by the Council of State. Let me do this a little less, because he listens to us people: the PASOK government - the one who destroyed the place - with Law 3842/2010 taxed the value of the property 15%, since the person who owns it does not have a name. Because you know, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened. A number of surnames who had an economic surface, not to be taxed, would not have their property declared in the ‘bottoms’, purchased real estate, mainly in the northern suburbs, or others that were exploited, in the name of offshore companies. And that's why this burdensome tax arrangement came in. It was excluded that companies that had nominal shares, which were known as Greeks with VAT within Greece and taxpayers. This issue has also been resolved by the S.H.E., where there were doubts. So the government did not have to bring this regulation to sell - allegedly - a service somewhere. In this, too, the bill we are discussing, see the fuel regulation. What then did Mr. Nicoludis tell us, the first Minister for anti-corruption? He told us they'd bring in 2 billion euros. It's been so many years. Mr Alexiadis here at Step denounced that we had not adopted the ministerial decisions to operate the GPS in tankers on the basis of our own law - we bad guys had voted for him as well - and made the ministerial decisions. I asked Mr Pittsili last year at the hearing of the AACC in the Committee on Economic Affairs, because the process of input-output control through GPS has not yet been implemented, and he replied to me that there are some technical difficulties and that they will do so next year. I read the AIA's three-year programme and refer to the GPS implementation, namely the control of trafficking through illicit fuel smuggling, in 2021. And now what are you doing in this bill? You extend the control of inputs to some other facilities not provided for in the original law, but also that, you are taking it in the future. I am referring to these characteristic examples, to be clear to the ordinary citizen in what direction you are working on. And, of course, the question of the amendment concerning the Hippodrome has also been raised and that is why I am not going to go any further. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, do not tell us that you are fighting the interests. The interests you put them on the lists and Mr Drasakis - whom I respect and appreciate more than he should have done - had told us from this step by step that he would name the corruption here in Parliament, so that the Greek people would know. No longer say names, not anymore they go through the side door of Maximus, but you put them on the ballots. At least with those you put on the lists, the people understand who they are. And it is very characteristic that, in answering the question about Ms. Dipadea, Mr. Papatheodorou asked what offence Mr. Petsitis has committed. In other words, he wanted Mr. Papaggiopoulou, who was the prosecutor to tell him about the crime, overlooking that Laurentiadis, Artemio with the offshore, Mrs. Dupadea who represented him, Mr. Petsitis and Mr. Papapas are all a veil of folding. In other words, the political issue of the new interlocutory is going to cover it up on formal issues, which, when they suit you, are taking advantage of. Because I heard earlier Mr. Xydakis talking about Mr. Fruzis. Hasn't Mr. Loverdos told you, Mr. Xydakis, that Mr. Froze didn't know him? And yet you refer him to him, because that serves your political destiny. I'll see you tomorrow. So in my time, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the week of the banks. Yesterday we had the Asian Bank, today we have the Development Bank. Since the week of the banks we will spend at the Passion Week, in which we have to legislate others that you have reserved us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u184	One hundred and twenty instalments, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u185	The hundred and twenty instalments, Mr Xydakis, which we have tabled as a proposal for debtors in the public financial services, do not allow you by the troika to bring it and do not bring it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u186	That'll come too. And sometimes you've betrayed evils and been disproved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u187	So this is political dependence. I say, therefore, that we are now going to this week of banks to collapse another account of the government, which Mr Drasakis had announced very early, for the Development Bank that was going through the system. What are you bringing us today? You're bringing us a shell, no contents. It is what - Mr Constantinople knows very well - Mr Dendias said - was prepared by the previous government for the rename of the EIB. However, if it had been five years ago, it would have been content today because all these provisions would have been implemented as a complement to the banking system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And of course - I shall end, Madam President - Mr Drasakis has forgotten in his statement that he should tell us about the role of the Deposit and Loan Fund and about the development of local government and about the lending of public officials. And, of course, he talked about strategic investments, except the evidence shows that we have deinvestment in the country, because clean investments are being reduced. In other words, what you say is that new capital is actually coming means that we have a reduction in capital invested, because depreciation is far greater than investment. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the deadlock to which you have committed the country and which you will unfortunately be handed over to Mr Mitsotakis will continue, unless we change policy and allow for long-term planning of investments and stability of the tax system and, above all, for another way of governance, such as the one proposed by the Change Movement. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u188	Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Of course growth is not a technocratic issue. If things were just like this, then very easily could address the issues of growth. But the question of growth is an extremely social issue. And it comes as a social question from answering the question: for what purpose do we want development, what do we want to satisfy? Are we going to satisfy the capitalist gains, i.e. the needs of the capitalists, or are we going to satisfy the social needs, modern and widespread people's needs? On the basis of the answer to these two questions, the design is also apparent. You as a government and the other opposition parties are talking about growth that will shield competitiveness and capitalist profitability. And based on that logic, you shape your political choices. So let's see what your political choices are, because the answer to this question is independent of aggressive determination. You're talking about fair growth, New Democracy, KINAL is talking about sustainable cyclics. They're using a series of aggressive determinations. But these different aggressive determinations want to cover up the substance - what is it? - the character. They want to cover up that the nature of your development is the capitalist character. And what does that capitalist character have, as a result, but also as a precondition? Firstly, the intensity of the exploitation of the labour force. That is why you have shaped, with the memoranda, such an institutional framework for the reproduction of a very cheap labour force, a working force consumable, without labour rights, without trade union rights, without insurance rights. It is on this basis, in this way, that you are shielding the competitiveness of capitalist enterprises, monopolistic groups. A prisoner is that. Secondly, you provide a series of incentives, prerogatives for development and investment, scandalous tax exemptions, and you form infrastructure such as to satisfy the needs of business groups for their investment projects. And that is clear as far as the part of incentives and infrastructures is concerned. It's obvious in today's bill. What are you doing with this bill? You continue the same logic, to provide 'ear and water' to the needs and interests of monopolies. Then, from the previous bills by reducing taxation on distributed dividends, which are for the benefit of the capitalists and against the people's income, why is tax raid maintained for the people, after the voluntary contribution of shipowners - you have not agreed to change, in the context of the constitutional review, the constitutional protection of their profits - after the concession made yesterday on the coasts and the saints for the investment projects, you are coming today and what are you bringing? You bring the new Development Bank and you bring new measures for national investments. What are you doing with the Development Bank? It's very simple. You are dealing with the financial instruments and resources you have from European programmes and from the Public Investment Programme. In fact, Mr. Drasakis had told a committee of Parliament that in your intention it is, in the next period, to bring a law on a multiannual programme for public investment, which will be part of development planning and which will serve investment projects. So, in this way, what are you actually doing? Submit even more European programmes and the Public Investment Programme to develop such infrastructures to satisfy investment plans or to finance direct investment projects. That is why, just now, Mr Vice-President, from this step forward, spoke about measures and infrastructure, which are of a long-term character and therefore are of great cost to entrepreneurs themselves. So you make it easier for them in these infrastructures, which have high costs and represent long-term investment, to find them ready and make use of them. The result of this process is even worse: transfer to the bells of works and infrastructure, which are essential for the improvement and protection of human life, such as anti-Semitism works, anti-military protection or anti-nuclear, for example. And it is no coincidence that everything that is being done in this direction is fragmentary, partial - so it does not deal with the problem and it can even worsen it - and comes after disaster. In this respect, therefore, it is also a challenge for the Vice-President to claim that the Development Bank is a progressive tool, namely the capitalist Middle Ages. Why are we talking about challenge? Because, trying to respond to the JRC's criticism, he said from this Step that BSE is against it. Can we see the opposition of BSE to the Development Bank? I read what the opposition of BSE is, from the memorandum, which tabled to the public consultation and to the relevant committee of Parliament, which discussed this bill: 'The draft law on the development of the EIB comes in a critical period for the country's investment competitiveness. However, the contribution of the project to the investment development of the economy remains unclear and without sufficient documentation.’ And it made you a series of suggestions that improve. So much contrast! Is the contrast so much that, after a while, Mr Drasakis said what he said to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection? I read from the Minutes: 'So several questions relating to specific issues, such as those raised by the BSE representative for the Development Bank, are to be resolved'. So much the contrast between BSE and the Government for the Development Bank! Simply, BSE is pressing for even greater privileges and benefits. The logic of this is also the logic, which also exists in the case of strategic investments, the 'here and water', which we say, to the large capital: first, the specific spatial frameworks, according to their needs. They'll fix it. Secondly, rapid licensing, fixed tax arrangements, escalating tax incentives for strategic investments, at a time when you are plunging people into taxes, subsidising wage costs and aid for research and development projects, favouring taxation for business executives, not only for businesses, but also for business executives. What else do you have to give them to invest? You will soon be paying them all the costs and expenses they have, if you do not already do so, because this results from Article 40. They have fictitious expenses to get a higher subsidy and not to have any own participation. The opposition, which New Democracy and KINAL make to you, focuses precisely on such individual issues, on positions in defence of capital interests and speaks of scandals in matters, for which they too, when they were governments, have made corresponding arrangements, and wanting to hide with the scandal that the uterus of such scandals, such as Article 40, such as the amendments on the hijacking race, which we say is scandalous and must withdraw, is nothing but the policy of serving capital interests. That's where those scandals come from. You are also using this scandalology as well as the government and the opposition, precisely to cover up this womb, namely the policy that serves the interests of capital, and secondly, to hide your convergence in this policy. Of course, in addition to these issues in the bill, they are the new areas for the realisation of major capital, in terms of needs, namely the commercialisation of health, education, waste management, water resources, but also the geostrategic upgrading of the country, which, in essence, means ground to develop the action of business groups in other countries, which means a reduction in production activity in Greece by transferring thousands of jobs. This geostrategic upgrade is associated with the imperialist designs of the Americans and Natali in the region, creating risks to the territorial integrity and sovereign rights of our country. So even if we accept your logic, the logic of the government and SYRIZA, that you are the smallest evil, what result is there through this process of reasoning less evil? That the growth that you are serving, the development you are legislating for, destroys productive sources of our country - because that is capitalism, destroys productive sources - breaks down labour rights, crushes the EEE and the small and medium-sized farmers. For example, for small and medium-sized farmers, what is the problem? It's that they're between two millstones, which they're constantly converging. On the one hand, the companies and monopolies which they receive from agricultural supplies, machinery and raw materials which they sell expensively, and on the other hand, the business groups who want to buy the agricultural produce, which they pay very cheaply or not at all. These two millstones have to deal with you, too, with your policy, while increasing production costs and remaining production indisposed, what are you coming and doing? You are charging even more burdens to small and medium-sized farmers, fiscal, insurance and let them pay a special tax on fuel - whereas shipowners are exempted - let the electricity be paid at a much higher price than you give it to NOME, i.e. to companies that sell electricity to consumers. The two amendments, which we have brought, what do they want to deal with? Some minor issues of lowering costs for farmers, which you do not dare, in terms of reducing excise duty on fuel and the refund, which they must also have on taxes and on electricity, which they use for their productive activity. All of this, while you provide scandalous privileges of many millions and billions of euros in big capital. Of course, this policy of capitalist development is exacerbating the position of the people's family, because capitalism in its DNA, in addition to the crises, also has the exacerbation of social inequalities, namely the concentration of wealth in less and less hands. That is why 1% of the world's population has more income than the rest of the world's population. So here's how the differences get intensified. That is why the position of the people's family and the growth period are deteriorating. And this worsening position of the people's family is trying to cover it through the compensatory benefits of charity and the redistribution of poverty from the least poor to the most poor. So the way of capital, which SYRIZA and the government serves, not only in the period of crisis but also in the period of growth, is hostile to the people. The battle of light and darkness that they go to make Government and New Democracy is a battle of chics. Why are they chics? Because together you voted for the third memorandum. You, as a government, legitimized the two previous memos. So you have the same strategic choices. You took the baton from the government of Samaras to implement the same measures and to go further than anti-popular policy. So the content of what you call the "progressive front" is very obvious from the above mentioned, but also from whom you are applauded as government. Does Mrs Merkel, Mrs Lagard and Mr Piatt, the Ambassador of the United States, all of these on the progressive front belong? - like the markets, of course, who are a tough and ruthless judge and reward your hard anti-popular policy! So the opposition that the other parties make to you is very convenient to you, because it is made from the same starting point. So, what's the starting point? It is how the interests of business groups will be better promoted. And under pressure from their opposition policy, you too take the measures that serve big capital. New Democracy and PASOK have this strategy. Only the JRC is making real opposition to the government, for the benefit of the people, and only the JRC is trying to shape the prerequisites of an even stronger front, against this front, the retractor, who is trying to break his rights and the standard of living. That is why the people are required to strengthen their position, to strengthen the JRC, because the next day will be much more difficult if the people do not stand up to the demands. Thank you very much, Madam President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u190	A request for a roll-call vote has been tabled on the amendment with a general number of 295 and a special 69 by ten seven Members of the New Democracy. The vote on this amendment will take place tomorrow at 14.00 a.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u191	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u192	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u193	He said Mr. Drasakis would withdraw from Rule 40...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u194	The Secretary of State will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u195	Will Mr. Drasakis speak again?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u196	No, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u197	I wanted to ask why there is no legislative improvement in what Mr Drasakis said. [[Noise from the wing of government influences]] Did he withdrew it? Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u198	Before I give Mr Giannakides the floor, is there any of the rapporteurs who wants to give a second word?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u199	I, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u200	I, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u201	Here, Mr. Ursouzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u202	Having also received the text of the amendments made to the draft law, I note that a great many of the requests put forward by the operators in the procedure of the Committee on Production and Trade have been accepted. However, I would like to mention, as far as Article 40 is concerned, that the second paragraph has left. It is an issue that has been dealt with on the basis of the real dimension, which has the problem. I am sure that it will come back with a different wording, perhaps, but the substance will not change. They are the enterprises that operate and which in one way or another have been illegal. It is not possible to deal with it, as has been addressed by previous governments, who, while finding the problem, have done absolutely nothing. And that is the big political question. They transferred it to us. We saw it with excellent honesty and said things with their name. It remains, however, the first paragraph, which I think will make it easier for some of the investors to continue their activities. The second point I would like to raise is the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance in relation to "HIPROMOS S.A.". This contract was signed on 24-04-2015 by the GOI and the concessionaire. It has to do with matters relating to real situations that have arisen and because of the crisis, as the Ministry's reasoning says. Inside, that is, in two years' time - 2016 and 2017 - they have recorded damage of 34 million euros. We must, of course, somehow see that problem. We saw it the way we saw it. It does not, under any circumstances, contain anything that is incompatible with the existing convention. That says a little further in the text of the amendment itself, that all of this is provided for, there is no restriction on the amendment to the concession agreement. Anyone who has a different view on this matter is a country's Supreme Court. Let it go there and stop the threats from launching people, who I believe are serving - and we have proved it for four years - with a great deal of public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u204	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u205	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u206	Other Members are asking for the floor for the roll-call vote. They do not know why, for our part, this request has been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u207	They'll see. It's a matter of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u208	As colleagues are wondering, I told them this was the scandal. There was something that my colleague mentioned earlier, which was a little blurred, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u209	You don't need all of this now. They have been sent to all the groups. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", twenty-eight students and students and two teachers from the Standard Experimental Gymnasium of the University of Patras (second section). The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u210	Mr Constantinople has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, we have raised two issues from the outset. One is the question of Article 40, which, in our view, the Vice-President of the Government has rightly withdrawn and, of course, New Democracy is late to understand, but we are at least glad that he understood it in plenary. It is a matter that we need to see with transparency and with respect to all investors and to them and others, who have not had such a problem. Secondly, we have been asking you for three days why you are bringing Article 45. You withdrew it. Also, there is no legal basis for Article 40. I haven't seen her anywhere. I hope he'll come sometime. He said the Minister is retiring, but I think he should also testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u212	Article 40 shall not be withdrawn, but the second paragraph of Article 40.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u213	He hasn't been filed anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u214	It's still the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u215	Since you have the paper in front of you, don't you see what's done and what's withdrawn?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u216	Calm down, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u217	I don't have a problem, but time is an ally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u218	You have a problem, but you can't cover it. It says here in 14, hypothesis b and e. That's right! Now, let's go to the third topic...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u219	So we're in agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u220	We said that only paragraph 1. Nothing else. Let's go now, Mr. SYRIZA's colleague, to the change that you made to Article 41. When we say small and medium-sized enterprises, what do we mean? We had already explained this before and said it again and said so by the GSE, and indeed it gave you positive comments. Why? Because, basically, by putting at least one employee at the start of the bill, it took small and micro-enterprises. You come now, an hour before we vote - not even an hour is - and you do this. You're talking about mixed wage costs, at least 30,000 euros. They're at least two or three employees. Gentlemen, you should know what you are voting on, because you were saying other things to the committee, and now you are saying more. We are therefore likely to exclude two employees, which are new technology and most of whom are involved in new technologies, from being both a worker and two. These are the ones we rule out. Do it, but know what you're doing. You cannot, Mr SYRIZA, tell me to the committee that you are supporting micro-enterprises, and now this is the ones of both of them. What happened and changed the last minute? Let's go down to the second. It says: To cover part of the operational costs, 10,000 euros are deleted and we reduce it to 6,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u221	What's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u222	You want it to be 6,000 euros, not 10,000 euros, don't you? That's your right. I ask this: why are you doing this? Why exclude companies in the technological field, which are one and two employees? Why? Tell me why you're doing it. To understand that there's a problem. You have a situation. Why didn't you have that earlier when GSEW came and gave you the credit? We have told you again that, if we do not build two different things, as in the Development Bank, as in others, if there are no budgets for small and medium-sized enterprises, you will always end up in this: you will end all companies up with up to two - three employees, which is 70% of the businesses, and you will address only companies, which is 30%. I say kindly that you might have an explanation that we don't know. We need you to tell us why you're doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u223	I think it's the Minister's time. Can I give you a 12-minute time?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u224	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u225	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Madam President. Another critical process, with a very important development bill, is almost towards its completion. I would like to begin by expressing my grief for the worldwide destruction of a worldwide cultural monument, that of the Virgin Mary of Paris, as well as the support of the Greek Government to the French people and making some comments in general, which unfortunately cannot be avoided, because I think many of the things that have been heard from various aspects of the Greek Parliament are at least comic-tragic. It is particularly comico-tragic what has been heard, especially from New Democracy and PASOK, such as in relation to the stress they have on the employees of the CTB, a hypocritical stress, since New Democracy and PASOK of the CTB had it on the list for the companies to be wrapped, to be closed, just as they did with the "black" of the ERT. In particular, comicotragics are their attitude to the anxiety expressed for the NRP and absorption, those who had never been able to lead Greece to the first speeds of absorption of the NRP funds and those who had actually converted the co-financed projects into a closed "days" club. It is highly comical to refer to investments by those who have led the country to the loss of 25% of Greek GDP, which led to a couple of thousands of businesses, at a time when for the majority of those who really needed access to bank lending it was a summer night dream, when others had uninterrupted access on terms that are now revealed in too many cases and committees of inquiry. It is particularly comico-tragic to be involved and to be interested in the new generation, those who have led unemployment to appallingly high levels of unemployment, those who have dismantled labour rights, those who have introduced the under-privileged and reduced the minimum wage. Today, we are voting on another bill by the Ministry of Economy with a sign of growth, which is part of the government's strategy for sustainable and fair growth. This government has managed to complete in a very short time and under extremely unfavourable conditions an impressively large number of reforms, the scope of which has no precedent: reforms in the insurance and taxation system, in justice for the fight against corruption, in product markets, in the labour market, in public investment, in infrastructure, in education, in social policy, in energy and in environmental policy. The government has also achieved over a short period of time high budgetary surpluses and has reduced the trade deficit. In the framework of the economic strategy, both in the medium and long term, Greece has for the first time a holistic strategic development plan, a national development strategy, which is the result of an important effort of three years in which the conclusions of the regional development conferences were incorporated through consultation of institutional and social partners. It has a social strategy which, in the holistic way of planning, incorporates the three dimensions, economic, social, environmental, defined in the objectives of sustainable development, as set out in the United Nations Resolution 2030 on Sustainable Development. The absence of such a strategy in recent decades lacked the national economy's development potential, leading to the establishment of a country's unregulated growth model, which collapsed very quickly with the outbreak of the crisis. Part of the problem was that Greece had no capacity for collective thinking and planning at national, regional and local level to meet the challenges of the 2009 global crisis. The draft that we are implementing a basic strategy is the reversal of deindustrialisation, increased productivity and boosting competitiveness. We want to focus on key areas of innovation and of high added value, to develop a strong culture of social and environmentally sustainable entrepreneurship, to strengthen the networks of small and medium-sized enterprises, to design the digital age. At the same time, we must focus and exploit the country's skilled human resources in order to increase the potential of the main sectors of the Greek economy. It is our duty to support, in practice, the scientific potential available to this country and, in particular, the new generation, to strengthen and reward companies that invest in technology and innovation and which show even greater incomes in the labour force which they employ, and this is a conscious political choice and a key feature of all the actions that have been planned within the framework of the ESDP operational programme. The driving force, therefore, for implementing our strategy for restarting the economy is the establishment and operation of the first National Development Bank. This is the transformation of the current National Entrepreneurship and Development Fund, the well-known EIB, into a development bank through deep restructuring and in the form of an anonymous holding company, with the possibility of a minority participation by foreign financial institutions and public bodies. Today, more than seven hundred development banks operate in the rest of the world and the government of SYRIZA came in order to implement an element that in the rest of the world was well established and widened, despite the desperate and failed efforts and announcements of the previous governments. It is the necessary and crucial institution that comes at the right time to help boost the economy through the strengthening of national regional development, a new body that will emerge and has complementary actions and not competitive with commercial banks, i.e. it will not operate in the form of an institution that accepts deposits, but will aim at indirect financing through commercial banks and intermediaries and will facilitate access to financing mainly of small and medium-sized social and start-up enterprises. The aim is to maximise development and social performance rather than financial performance and profits, as is the case with the private banks and the new organisation's available tools, including loans, guarantees, grants, participation in schemes of newly created or innovative enterprises, advisory support, financing of long-term projects with significant social or environmental benefits, micro-credits and bond loans. The Ministry of Economy and Development estimates that the total leverage for the economy will be of the order of EUR 11 billion, while the bank will start with a capital of EUR 5 billion. The National Development Bank will operate as a link to international financial markets and institutions and at the same time broaden the ability of the Greek economy to raise capital directly from the European Union and mobilise significant investments, in cooperation with the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We note that the vast majority of market forces welcome this reform. In conclusion, I should like to point out that the establishment of the National Development Bank implements our very basic programming commitment to a differentiated financial structure focusing on the country's real economy and development planning. Of course, the Ministry of Economy and Development does not only stand in the establishment of the Development Bank, as it moves forward in a new regulatory framework for strategic investments in order to actually attract large and quality investments. Also, taking into account the unequally distributed impacts of the ten-year crisis between the regions of the country, we are moving towards strengthening firms in disadvantaged regions in Greece. In reply to the questions raised by Mr Constantinople in relation to the addition of the creative industry, we explain that the creative industry is one of the eight branches of the strategy of smart specialisation, so it is part of the bill. While for e-commerce, because there was a difficulty in specifying exactly the content and the others, we chose to withdraw, and the addition of the creative industry that is one of the eight branches was introduced, plus the possibility that we would like to give for the greatest possible amount of aid of 20% of the 30,000, and that is 6 000, which you mentioned and asked. Support will be produced through a two-year coverage of business operating costs, in order to facilitate the exit from the accumulated problems caused by the crisis and a ultimate goal of investing in order to enhance competitiveness, promote exports and increase employment. With three-fold competitiveness - exports - employment, we are moving forward with a forty-two-two actions already implemented by the Ministry of Economy and Development. And in the paradox that has been heard by the Opposition, that SYRIZA and investment are conceptually opposite, what we can summarily mention are the reforms that have been made to simplify licensing procedures, to digitalise licensing services, to reform the framework for controls and market surveillance, to reform corporate law, to increase the national strand of the Public Investment Programme, to establish a series of signalling tools, such as EquiFund and TEPIX, to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises from the ESDP, with almost EUR 2 billion public expenditure, such as ‘Pilodian’, to save public buildings, to finance local spatial projects that multiply resources and today the draft law establishing the Development Bank and strategic investments. I could go on long enough, but I will stop here because time is pressing too. But what were the results of previous governments in terms of investments? Carcases of industries and businesses, padlocks, launching of unemployment, Brain drain. Recently, the opposition has invented another alleged problem of this government, absorption in the NRP. I do not know exactly how the official information is read by your partners, but what appears to be the most appropriate representatives of the European Commission is that we are at the first speeds at European Union level and only countries with far smaller programmes than our NRP are above us. However, if we see what we have received from the previous governments, we will see a modest public investment programme on the national side, immature projects, blocked projects. We managed to increase the National Public Investment Programme through cooperation with the European Investment Bank and other international financial institutions, and we were the ones who managed to unlock and implement major infrastructure projects that have been stuck for years. We are continuing to create a new framework for the national PIP with a bill that will soon come to Parliament, first introducing the concept of programming, which was missing from all previous governments. At the same time, on our own initiative of the Ministry of Economy and Development, we are already collecting requests from stakeholders for funding studies in order to have mature projects for the next programming period, all that you have not done in previous years. Therefore, the fact that SYRIZA and investment are conceptual contrary is simply a communication firework, which has nothing to do with reality, nothing to do with everything that is reflected by the financial data, by international organisations, by the confidence that shows the entire power of the market, but also foreign countries and investors in the Greek economy. In the years when the present government has the rule of the country, we are implementing everything that should be self-evident for a serious country that has decided to pursue a fundamental national policy, knowing what is in its interest, assessing the conditions that are being created, setting strategic objectives at regional, national, European and international levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u228	Madam President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u229	What question? One process is complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u230	It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u231	Well, it's all right. Are you going to judge what's wrong? Tell us about it. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u232	I didn't understand, Mr. Secretary, if, by putting at least EUR 30 000 at work, we're going from one employee, which you said at first, to two or three. This means that we exclude as many businesses as they have one or two employees. I ask you: why did you change it? Write 'at least one worker'. At a wage cost of 30,000 a year they're probably two or three employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. He asked that again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u234	He asked it several times, without wanting to give any more extent. Because if you were to follow my speech, Mr. Constantinople, you would have received your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u235	I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u236	You didn't get it. You can come back again so that you don't continue to be exposed to the Ministry of Economy and Development, from which you had passed and you didn't touch, we can explain you and we can do everything you need. We cannot constantly repeat what has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u237	But now you tell me!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u238	However, because you were absent and did not follow during my speech why any changes were made, I would ask you to close an appointment to explain why we cannot continue the five-minute TV show you want to claim.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u239	Minister, you're not at the Central Committee of SYRIZA. You are in Parliament and you must respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Undersecretary said he answered his speech. Do you know any rules that compel the Minister to speak specifically to what you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u241	Since we didn't understand, shouldn't he give us answers? Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u242	I, Mr. Constantinople, have not asked the question. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development is adjourned: "Greek Development Bank and the attraction of strategic investments and other provisions" and their vote will be taken separately. On the Ministerial Amendment No 2095 and a special request for a roll-call vote has been submitted by Members of the New Democracy, which will take place tomorrow, 17 April 2019, at 14.00 p.m. The electronic vote on the nominated article and the entire bill will take place tomorrow immediately after the roll-call vote. We are informing that the rapporteurs and the special speakers of the draft law should remain tomorrow after the roll-call vote to vote on the farewell article and the whole draft law. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, forty-seven articles and one amendment. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles and the amendment. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u243	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u244	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u245	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Greek Development Bank and the attraction of strategic investments and other provisions" was accepted in principle, Articles and Parliamentary Amendment 2096/70 by a majority. Of course, its vote under No 2095/69 of the Ministerial Amendment on which, as I said before, there is a request for a roll-call vote, which will take place tomorrow, as well as the vote on the nominee article and the entire bill, which will also be held tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-16-S1-commons.u246	With the consent of the House at 15.58 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 17 April 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) a debate on the report of the Intergroup parliamentary committee on the claim of German debts, in accordance with Rule 45(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament; and (b) a decision of the Greek Parliament on the proposal by the President of the Parliament to claim German debts, in accordance with Rule 51(4) of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
