ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: In accordance with Parliament's 6-6-2019 authorisation, the PRA's minutes were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau on Thursday, June 6, 2019, with regard to the vote on all draft laws: "Declaration of the Criminal Code" and "Declaration of the Code of Criminal Procedure".]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Following the individual contracts for the V and VI projects of 06-09-2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation "Common Benefit Foundation of Stavros S. Niarchos" and the Greek State in order to strengthen and upgrade infrastructure in the field of health". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 4 June 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u3	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u4	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u5	Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We have completely disagreed with this procedure, Mr Kegeroglu expressed our views at the Conference of Presidents, and I would like to say to the House, Mr President, a few words about this. We disagree horizontally and vertically with the extension of this government's and Parliament's life in breach of Article 1(2) and (3) of the Constitution. The Constitution defines popular sovereignty as the basis of all that we do and operate in the field of politics. The same article, Article 1(3), defines a source of every power for the people. From 7 July, there will be a parliamentary correlation - the one the people will decide - and a government that will vote for the vote of confidence in the House to proceed with the legislative work. Mr President, everything that is happening right now is outside the framework of the Constitution. Yesterday - to pay attention to what I am about to say at the moment - there was a code appeal in a way of barbaric indeed - I raised it in my position - and from the pressure of society, which Parliament learned from this pressure that there were mistakes made in the issues of rape, the Minister was forced to make a change, while it is not right. She baptised her "legislative improvement" and she concerned a legitimate good of major importance and heavy decency insults. He has already organised arguments of unconstitutionalism in the hands and mouths of lawyers of rapists. This needs to be realised. There was a mistake yesterday. It was not corrected by the Minister's baptized "legislative" intervention. At the last moment, however, when such serious legislative steps are taken it makes sense to make top-level mistakes. That is why we do not legalise this process, Mr President, nor do we legalise this 'orgy', a complex of customer relations, which has no precedent in the post-cultural history of the country. The most customer-friendly government of all times after post-Culture is present and because we will discuss the lack of tax relief, which the majority of years ago had accepted, I would like to remind you that you are the SYRIZA and ANEL at the time when you voted on this provision, you are now coming to abolish it retrospectively and in an unacceptable manner.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u6	Does my colleague have a place?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u7	What's that right now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I shall conclude. You have ignored and despised our legislative intervention since 2018, accompanied by a Report by the General Accounting Office of the State. It was a good intervention and could be strengthened. In conclusion, I would like to say that we do not legitimise this process with our vote. We are the first to raise this issue and the Greek society and the people are well aware of what we have proposed and what you are doing today. We have come here today to tell you, Mr President, not to you, to the government and to the majority. See you in the Chamber here at the National Representation, so that the Greek citizens can hear it. We'll see you to the government and to the majority, but we don't hear what the government and the majority say. You'll speak for yourself. We have come here today to recall that we have taken the initiative that your ministers, the finance ministers, were mocking when we proposed that tax-free allowances should not be reduced and you are now coming for voting reasons to make these openings. No one believes you and, Mr President, I ask you to take this procedure back, which is outside the limits of the law and of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u9	Good, have a seat. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u11	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u12	We would also like to denounce all of what has been happening in the last three days in the Greek Parliament. We repeat that only thirteen days ago European elections were held. The results were tragic for your Government and in about twenty-six days there are national elections. There's absolutely no point in bringing bills, amendments... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Brother, go to your village, go to the cafeteria and have a cup of coffee and let me talk! What are you interrupting me? That's where you tell the president, okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u13	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u14	Fascist!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u15	You're fascist and you look, what you're doing! What I'm telling you! Come on, comrades of fun, you've assigned not only your wives here, but also your sisters and sisters! I'll talk either you like it or you don't like it! Come on, sit on your eggs!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u16	Please, Mr. Panayotas!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u17	Stop them! What's he commenting on? I don't understand! He's the one to stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u18	I didn't give you the floor for that. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u19	Tell them to stop commenting. That's what I have to tell you. In a few hours this government is ending, and in a few days there are elections for a new government. What you're doing is kangiozia of the greedy kind. Of course we're leaving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Mandas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the fact that you have given some reason and that some opinions have been developed, I would like to say a few words. Firstly, with regard to the substance, i.e. on the initiative of the Government, first of all, to continue its work legally and constitutionally until the House has been dissolved, I think it has answered a thousand times that, in an absolute, legal and constitutional way, the government is suddenly no more than an election result, which is an election result for the European elections. When the time comes and the Greek people speak, we will see what the result will eventually be. So, firstly, the whole function until the dissolution of the House is completely legal and within the constitutional frameworks. Secondly, in this process, we are now bringing a positive provision, among other things, because it is also very positive from what we are bringing and will then analyse them. I call now, in advance, on all the political forces, whatever they have come, to remain to make the real controversy. I want to stress two things: Firstly, is it or is it not a good measure to abolish the tax reduction, which we did at a very difficult time in 2017, when the International Monetary Fund was unbearablely pressing us, and when the whole opposing system was trying to confirm the 'left parenthesis' line? Secondly, this is the real conflict, in our view: firstly, whether this measure will be voted on - and this measure will be voted on - and secondly, what powers will then question it. Because otherwise they had set up their programme, Mr President. As some of these forces did in canceling pension reductions, so they do now, they hide. They are hiding because they have another programme, a programme with the seal of the International Monetary Fund. I call on all political forces to come here to make the real confrontation. Finally, with regard to everything that is being heard on the issues of a legal procedure which, both through and through the Conference of Presidents and with the agreement of the Conference of Presidents and all parties, has been initiated since February, namely, public mobility, I believe that every well-off person - and we are ten times as many times as a hundred times as we do - will understand what has really happened in the course of this debate. The people concerned have already been placed and will then be placed. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u22	Well, the opinions have been recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u24	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. The Communist Party, known as the Conference of Presidents, was placed on the legislative procedure that has been followed these days. As far as today's sitting is concerned, we shall also be here on the bill, but also on the amendment on the famous tax-free. That is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u26	The President of Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, because we must not only say this to parliamentarians or to the channels, but we must talk about it here - and I also act on the presence here of my dear colleagues from PASOK and others - I want to say a few things for the most time, so that the Greek people and the Chamber know certain things and also recorded in the Minutes. I am not talking about the head of Mr. Loverdos on a client-state, etc. This is a political position for the entire government. But I am interested in Parliament, because we are actually apologising today, as it is the last sitting of the House in this period, to know, too, certain things, whether they have been forgotten and from where they have been forgotten. I would like to say that an extremely important effort has been made, and with a wider consensus for four years, to substantially change a regime in the House that I mean, in fact, above all, but to a certain extent, in the context of the crisis, it has had a character in terms of labour relations completely controversial, blurred, transitional, arbitrary. I say to you, I do not go into political controversy, and I am the last person to speak, as much as I am, for names, for soybeans, for numbers and soybeans. That is not the reason, because there is no setback. The question is whether we have been able to do so and - I repeat - with a broader consensus in these years to make these institutional areas in the way of administration, and especially in relation to the labour issues in the House, which is not easy to understand even in any Bureau of our own or any other party to go backwards. That's the target. It is not the goal of saying: 'But they did these, we did some other'. That is not what this is about, and that is why I want to be very direct. From the first moment, and as we were all in front of all the employees, and even for six months of all the employees' contracts here - I mean, the fixed-term employees - we have extended once and twice to all the staff, while at the same time ensuring that everyone operates in the House, that they produce work on an equal footing and that they are in positions that can be paid, that is, - I will be direct - that there are no shadows for late pay or for officials who were not in Parliament and who were at some party offices or for people who had been in business and who had entered for the garage, that is, their qualifications were other and that they were for elsewhere. This set-up - I repeat - of the other political forces and procedures which have been completely aptly carried out for all the officials, whether contract staff or permanent staff we have found in this House. Secondly, during our term of office, there was no one permanent official in the House. There were two possibilities, one to four gave us a chance of seventeen permanent posts at specific organic posts needed by the House. All seventeen seats for a year and a half have been spent in the ADP to get the officials out of there. Already a thousand young citizens, our children with great qualifications are in line for hearings about these positions. I think we did right and we can't go behind it in the future. Secondly, the 'holes' which existed in the number of special regulations, which were not annexed to the general regulation and which were not approved by Parliament, precisely because our first concern was to consolidate the Rules of Procedure and to be approved by Parliament's plenary, so to be straightforward, the President's ability to make such appointments was not used once. Let's move on. There was a regime of contractors to clean up the House. I understand that the issue is ideological, and I would like to prevent it, if the Greek people change things in relation to the political forces that the Bureau of Parliament will have - so I put it directly - and a pogrom of redundancies for cleaners and cleaners, because on this issue again - I repeat - we have agreed to another regime, they have left the contractors and have reduced the costs for Parliament as a whole for cleaners and cleaners for a certain period of time for one or two years. This is a group of about sixty people. Secondly, there was a loose end - we were really surprised when we saw it - which we received and which concerned sixty-eight special guards who were hired with some not easy explanations of clauses and these people made them hostage to an unacceptable labour regime. Every five years - with a final five years that would end on our day to settle - it would change their status and do this other job. You realise that both of the accusations I have spoken about - and the second one - have nothing to do with SYRIZA. So horizontally, as for the first category, we have brought the matter to the Rules of Procedure. They became officials of the House with a specific status, so that this unfinishedness would stop and that these people would not be in the air. I don't know any names or things or what they vote and I don't care. We are all judged by the officials here and by the officials - and I am absolutely satisfied with the way in which the officials operate in this House - by the way we behave. It is clear that there was no 2440/2016 on public mobility. With proposals first made by parties other than the governing party - I repeat that I will not mention, however much as I am provoked, in names or in dissidents and in gossip - the issue has been raised. Indeed, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and not the Conference of Presidents, Parliamentary Representatives, by law and by decision of the House and by broad consensus - if I remember correctly - had voted in favour of the DSY, the JRC, the ANELs - the decision was taken by February, that is, ten months before the planned October elections, that Parliament should also enter the process of mobility by law, as had been the case since 2016. So to all the officials of this House, and those who were from 2003, 2006, 2009 - and you understand why I say these dates, it has nothing to do with a selective choice - it was given a circular that they can, if they so wish, make use of the mobility process, which provides for certain things - and you know that - that is to say, consensus from their original agency before they come to work here. Most people have been working here for years. And the files from the end of February began to be made, beginning in March, for all the cases that went into this process. They could have been less or more. This process is relatively time-consuming. And that's right. It's a long time ago. It has nothing to do with 'decide and order'. I personally say to you right and I promise that I had no idea who they included and who they had told their willingness to be within them sixty-four in total, who would be involved in the mobility process. They were more, but some of them didn't want to. And there are seconded officials of the House in ministries. It's the alternative process. So these procedures, these files of these workers in the House, have already begun to be formed in the past few months. And they started to finalize, that is to say, they would arrive for signature and take FEK, before the European elections, and immediately after these days. It has nothing to do with a last-minute mandate and it obviously has nothing to do with a selective order for some and not others. It's a particular charge of the seconded people in the House. So there has been the noise that has developed in recent days. We have been in touch with the government, precisely because this noise has obviously taken political features and a tension that fuels and a climate within the world, in which you cannot easily explain what we are now talking about in a quiet manner, yesterday at the freezing of at least half of these cases. I doubt that, because for the other half of them, FEC has already been published. I also hope for some of these other people who, I repeat, are in the Bureau of Vice-Presidents and in the services of this House and are concerned with the cases of officials who have neither a majority nor a familiar place with which I have had the honour of first having the proposal to be President of this House. I repeat, no matter what happens, we're not going to give lists so that everyone can understand where they're seconded from when they are in this case. I respect myself, democracy and, above all, people and their families. On the contrary, of course, from a well-known political perception and communication, there was this attempt to map two, three, five, seven - I do not know if it is nine or three and a half - cases which - obviously no ban on people who are SYRIZA, unless they came out forbidding on this - participated or were in this process, and which some of them were from 2007 and several of them after 2015. And it has been done and all that noise is done. To sum up, therefore, the interventions which concern us even towards the IPOs are very limited beyond those of the categories which I have told you about a House which, in fact, was in our ambition - for the fourth time, I say - and with the consent of the other political forces and their assistance, it has developed its work with extroversion and with new sections that were necessary, such as the Legal Department of Archives, the Foundation of the Parliament, which is doing three times as much work as was done. There were absolute needs still. The organigrams in no way have been completed in the House nor have we completed them. All the commitments we have made, even what you have heard about the Foundation, have been made here. I remember this particular debate, where it was said, "But is there a 50-man organizational chart and you're going to put people in?" and we had said here that it was thirty-two workers and, at the most, three others - four people in the Foundation's very necessary jobs. That's what we did. That's it. I do not feel any sign of guilt and responsibility for the fact that either by my institutional responsibility or by a majority we have been apologising for this: that we have become the same and have retained the same status as that of working relations - because in other respects there have been very important things in the House that we have received and continued - with the former regime. I do not care how much - I repeat - to have a setback. That would be unfair and the people did not ask us to do that. The people have asked all of us to become a part of the process on all these issues, and it has also been made at the level of the crisis. You are well aware that in the House - unfortunately it may be the only public service - the assessment of all services and the crises at all levels have been completed. Only three objections were raised to the administrative court in relation to options. Both of them were rejected and pending one other. The House now fully, legitimately and with due harmonisation with the laws operates from the level of Directors-General to the level of Division. These areas are very important. I believe that it is also a footprint of a completely different view of the staff of the Parliament, which is wrong when there is a sign behind it that "he has come upon the President", "he has two other brothers in the House", "is within the hundreds of seventy who have put the suffering". All these people are wrong because they are qualified, worked these years and can continue to pay. This is therefore the footprint and the institutional arrangements which have been passed in the Rules of Procedure - all of this - and I think it will make it compulsory for the future, for any situation - democracy we have - to expand and shield further, rather than undermine and move to a former regime. Ladies and gentlemen, I was obliged to meet today's last sitting on an issue where public opinion reasonably shows and showed very good sensitivity, to be very clear, very honest, and on these issues, if there is a opposition, or if there was a opposition, because it was demonstrated at various stages of previous elections, it is open to political parties and not to anthropophageal populist manifestations on one side of the journalistic establishment to be discussed and further enlarged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u28	Before giving the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Andreas Michaelides, for 15 minutes, I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, sixteen students and students and three educational attendants from the 13th Elementary School of Katerini. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me first in the climate that has been shaped over the last few days to make a comment, Mr President. I wonder: Does the state keep up with it? Apparently it does. How is this continuity ensured? Institutions must be guaranteed by operating under the Constitution and the individual powers within the framework provided, for example, for the functioning of legislative power, namely Parliament, within the Rules of Procedure of the House. Is it, then, possible to cancel a government's legislative work, because the Prime Minister has announced that he will request the dissolution of the House in a few days' time? It is self-evidently unreasonable. And to the argument that it is politically legitimized at the moment by the government to bring concrete legislation, I would also ask myself, Mr President, if there is a expressed consensus in specific bills. For example, the legislation, the amendment, which will soon be developed by the Minister responsible for the abolition of duty-free reduction, has the broadest political consensus and even the second in a class party in Parliament. Can the draft law of ratification, which I have the honour of proposing shortly, not have political legitimacy? Is it possible that the upgrading of the National Health System with specific donations from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation could not have political legitimacy? Therefore, in addition to the misgivings we have heard here, I sincerely consider this whole scene to be completely unreasonable, which is based on obvious reasons, i.e. depriving the work of a government at least at the last minute. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to present the main bill, which comes here and which is part of a ratification of a individual donation contract, which has been signed in September 2018, as we all know, I have also had the honour of proposing this - for the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to the Greek State. Today, we recommend the ratification of two parts of two sub-contracts which are in this general context, in the more general contract, which is called "Initial to strengthen and upgrade health in Greece". This contract is composed of two sections and concerns two projects: ERGO V, which provides for the donation, the purchase by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation of two new and fully equipped aircraft, which will be made available to the EKA fleet, so that patients from the region can be able to reach the hospitals of the country, and their complete equipment. It is also planned to repair two helicopters, which are currently also needed to renew their equipment and upgrade their operational capacity. This project is €25,000,000, mainly for a donation to the Greek State and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation (Stavros Niarchos). I would also like to say that this work is accompanied, in addition to the rapporteur's report, by the technical features, which have been proposed for these aeroplanes, but also by the upgrading of helicopters. Of course, it also has the relevant report from the General Accounting Office of the State. May I also remind you, ladies and gentlemen, since I am a Member of an atrocity island of Chios, how important and how important this donation is for the critics, for the immediate transport of patients, which we islanders often live as a necessity. The second project, ERGO VI, as mentioned in the contract, concerns the purchase, creation, first of all, of a radiopharmaceutical plant, circles, in hospitals in the country. This is a necessary infrastructure for the manufacture of medicines that are used to treat neoplasms and provide therapeutic potential for patients with cancer. Of course, these are now in very frequent use. This concerns the hospitals of Heraklion, Ioannina, Larissa and Thessaloniki, the hospital of Papageorgiou. Let me point out that the spread of these hospitals has been done on specific criteria, so that we can serve the neighbouring areas. The second group of medical equipment is the supply of a positron emitter machine. And this is a new high-ranking potential for the fight against diseases, neoplasms. This, of course, concerns the hospitals of Heraklion, Ioannina, Larissa and Alexandroupolis. These two pieces are a total cost of 17,000,000 euros. In addition, this contract is accompanied by the detailed technical characteristics which the two armaments teams must have and, of course, the relevant report from the General Accounting Office of the State. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should ratify the Convention for these two specific projects, and I also call on colleagues from the other political forces to vote in favour of this ratification, because it is, of course, in the direction of upgrading public health services and concern a large part of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too. Mr Koutsoukos has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Because we are here today, I think Mr Loverdos explained it by taking the floor on a point of order, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, as we consider that since Mr Tsipras recognised Sunday evening on May 26th the Greek people's condemnation of your policy and called for elections, the House should have closed down and today the election campaign should be under way. We are watching that you have kept the House open to pass last-minute amendments, various forms of service and obviously within them are issues that are time-consuming and have to be dealt with by both previous governments and the government of your own five-year government. The fact that you did not do so does not legalise you to prolong the term of office of the Parliament in the name of some "fair" regulations, which have to do with the service of social groups in the face of a new election defeat, as is evident. This is something that did not save you with the election allowance you gave to the European elections. So we will be here to tell you what you are bringing and to reiterate our view that the House today had to be closed, that is what Mr Tsipras said. In any case, Mr President of Parliament, if you are defending the formality of this procedure, we should at least have the main government ministers here to explain the major amendments. For me, ladies and gentlemen, I have lived through this four-year adventure of the country and SYRIZA, the illusions, mutations and abnormal landings, where the rhetoric, arguments and narratives changed, depending on the purposes of the juncture. In other words, from 'we will tear the memorials', we have been through a defeated negotiation, a hard and unnecessarily third memorandum, then in a medium-term that binds the country to 2022 with primary surpluses of 3.5% and 2.4% after 2022. We went through the commitment of the public property for a hundred years, which had not done so by any government, even though the lenders had asked for it, neither George Papandreou nor Antonis Samaras. In fact, the government has made a guarantee against lenders of 25 billion of this public property. That was the policy in the big picture, and obviously all that you have committed the country to is dangerous in the next few years to lead to new deadlocks, regardless of the change of government. Because the change of government, ladies and gentlemen, will not automatically mean a change of these burdens and the commitments made by Mr Tsipras and will, as he is aware, be implemented - Mr Mitsotakis. The primary surpluses of 3.5% cannot be changed by Mr Mitsotakis alone. We haven't heard anything about public property and a series of others. So you have exercised a policy which is at the expense of the country and which is dangerous for its future. And we are now discussing the abolition of duty-free, which you voted on with Law 4472 in May 2017, together with the medium-term, to which I referred, with measures of 4,9 billion. I remember SYRIZA's colleagues applauding Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Juliarakis when they developed the logic of the countermeasures. In other words, they said that we are introducing tough measures, pension cuts and tax reductions, but at the same time we also have equal value countermeasures. In fact, we have also developed a theory that said that countermeasures will be applied for the front and society will benefit from the vote on these tough measures, which by way of formal vote you ratified here in May 2017. But, ladies and gentlemen, this entire account of the government collapsed, as the government could not secure a dynamic growth that would allow us to get out of the policy of cruel austerity, overtaxation and excessive contributions, and so all it did was that it was only election to make a distribution of bloody surpluses, not even the wrath of the world. So I now wanted Mr. Tsakalotos or Mr. Juliarakis to overthrow me the May 2017 account, which, from this step, beat us, because the measures have countermeasures. Have you understood what you will vote for, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? You will vote for the abolition of Article 10 of Law 4472, which says that the tax will be reduced from 1-1-2020. At the same time, however, you will also be voting for the abolition of three countermeasures, which you have voted for. Here we have the resolution and the motion for a resolution throughout it and all its majesty! What does Article 11 say that you are going to vote on? Article 11 says that since 2020 we would have a 30% reduction in HISPIA. I remind you it's the ENPIA you were about to take out. In any case, because you could not abolish it, despite the fact that you said it, you promised by a law that you voted on, that from 2020 we would have a 30% reduction. You're removing it. What does Article 12 say that you are abrogating, ladies and gentlemen? Article 12 has to do with this theory that I have recently heard the government develop that it will reduce the middle-class, because Article 12 provided that the first step of the rates of income tax from 22% would be reduced to 20%. You understand who falls under the first step. They are employed and retired with fewer incomes, because after the tiles they are much higher. And you are abolishing this possibility of tax relief for permanent budget balances. Article 13, which also provided for a reduction in the solidarity levy, which is a burdensome measure for many categories of income. Mr President - and I have the honour again to be here and I am sorry, Mr President, to mention you, it has no personal tip, it is purely political - we as PASOKs, Democratic Reconciliation and Change Movement have tabled comprehensive, processed and documented legal proposals, including that of February on the abolition of duty-free, which, in accordance with the procedure with the parliamentary and the Constitution, went to the General Accounting Office and took the relevant report. Here is the proposal for a law, and here is the report from the General Accounting Office. You were obliged, Mr President, regardless of the government's will, to bring them to the debate and let the government come here to explain the budgetary or other wider reasons that could not be accepted. In the past, because I have a term here in the parliamentary seats, I inform you that this has been the case. The government came in and said it was good for your proposal, but for them, and for these reasons we cannot adopt it. But this exerted a social and political pressure on the major issues. The government in cooperation with you has not brought these proposals into discussion. I would like to tell you that, if we are in a normal process, we would vote for the abolition of duty, but we would never vote for the abolition of any positive ones that you had anticipated with the so-called countermeasures. And we would suggest that, instead of a law and an article that abolishes the tax reduction and, together, removes the countermeasures, separate them so that your Members too can vote consciously. Do they want to reduce the first tax scale by 2%? To vote on it. Do they want to reduce HISBIA? To vote on it. Do they want to reduce the solidarity levy? To vote on it. The way you did - with a law and an article - you're operating blackmail. It's not like you'd sketch the memorial. It is'measures and countermeasures', 'I am voting and voting'. This is our political position on this development. At this point, I would like to make a reference to the other ten amendments tabled by the Government, which comes to the attention of what I have said in the introductory wording. This is an attempt at major issues, which would require a much wider debate, in order to deal with them properly, to spend the last minute in order to'saving' some social groups. For example, to give social solidarity allowance to the elderly insurers as a member of the Greek community in Albania. We'll give it to you. But we also have other minorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u32	We were giving it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u33	Can we give ladies and gentlemen an extension of public works programmes? Three months, Mr Kegeroglu would ask you to discuss his question here. This cannot go on a voluntary basis. If we make it the extension, it must be compulsory. Shall we give a tax extension to the Defence Systems? We've given her up so many times. Let's give her one more time because you're not going to solve this. What are we going to do about the Greek Sugar Industry? You bankrupt it, you shut down the factories.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u34	Hey, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u35	I remember Mr Lafazanis and Mrs Valvaani when they brought the possibility of financing her by way of legislative action. I have lived through them, experienced this adventure, 'I am voting for it - I am voting for it'. You said you were going to save her, go bankrupt, owes the workers, destroys the logistics of thousands of farmers, and now you are bringing us a regulation to pay the workers' budgets.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u36	The factory in Orestiad, you shut it down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u37	You are bringing in, ladies and gentlemen, an extension of contracts to the Ministry of Health. We don't know who it's about. We could have a normal conversation to see if it really has to be done. You're bringing us a whole bill for RAE. Which one of you has really understood what we're regulating? You are bringing us arrangements that, as I said, could be processed and have a positive character. In the end, having referred to the tradition of public property, have you seen the provision for the appointment of administrations to the subsidiaries of the supermarket, brought to us here by Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Juliarakis? What does she say? It says that, after we have given our lenders and partners the opportunity to define the administration of the Supreme Fund - the Hellenic Company of Participants and Property, such as the title - and to be the honourable Member today. Le Pape President of the Supervisory Board, we also give the possibility to this administration, to which the lenders have the right, to appoint the individual administrations of the subsidiaries. I would like to remind you that in our proposal before November on the first measures for economic development and social justice, it is stated that 'the Greek state must regain its sovereignty over public property'. And since we are not fake revolutionaries, say more election and other post-elections, this proposal will remain on the agenda of the positions of the Change Movement for any political developments. I am now referring to the missing New Democracy, which we have not heard from her say anything. What does our proposal to regain sovereignty in public property, ladies and gentlemen? It says that the Conference of Presidents with a qualified majority will decide, after considering the candidates to run the Supreme Court, who are negotiating to take advantage - we say in the interests of growth and social cohesion - public property, that is to say, that the House will decide. These are crucial issues that we should have discussed if you had complied with a legitimate parliamentary procedure. Unfortunately, however, you did not respect it. There are issues to which as much as you try you cannot answer. Whatever methods you use you can't convince people. The most characteristic example is this and I shall end with that, Mr President. With fairs you have abolished here the reduction in pensions, which you had voted on, and we invited you to send to the pensioners the recalculation notes, which are provided for by the Katrugalos Act and you have undertaken many times to send them to the pensioners to see what their new pension is and you have not done so. So whatever methods you use, whatever measures and take on election eves, the condemnation of the Greek people is a given one. Our proposals are very clear and transparent, which is why we came here to tell them. We will develop them and during the election period, and we believe that the people will enable us to be a serious, responsible, progressive opposition to the conservative policies that you have implemented and which Mr Mitsotakis has aspired to implement. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too, for keeping time. It's closing the system for talking. Mr. Lambroulis from the JRC has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. The office of ministerial amendments and we do not know any more Members of Parliament is continuing, Mr President. We have already received two other ministerial amendments, and I think we have already received two other parties. When will this continue, Mr President? It is supposed that there has been a decision by the Conference of Presidents for a long time even with the opening of the procedure in plenary debate of a bill not to be tabling amendments. Of course, this orgy continues and I do not know until at least when it will continue for today, since it is the last meeting. Now, as far as the bill is concerned, we are not opposed to these measures, which can, of course, improve the benefits, the care conditions of the people, especially those relating to early diagnosis and treatment, and at the same time restoration. Systemically, of course, we highlight the enormous deficiencies in the public health system in infrastructure, equipment and personnel in hospitals, primary health care, urgent pre-medical care and, at the same time, we demand that they be resolved through our interventions both in Parliament's procedures, but above all in our action within the framework of the labour and popular movement. And we point out that such measures must be the sole responsibility of the State, must be fully financed by the state budget, that they must be provided with permanent full-time and full-time staff, that they ensure adequate and modern medical equipment and that they are part of the universally-developed public health system, so that all preventive diagnostic treatments can be provided in a timely manner, and absolutely free of charge, to those who of course need it, but without conditions and conditions. In our opinion, public health services, their development and their absolute and universal exploitation by the people cannot depend on charity, volunteering and individual supply, because it is a popular right and a state responsibility arising from the nature of these services and, furthermore, on the fact that workers and other popular strata are the ones producing wealth in our country. We believe that the State must fully ensure these structures and services and only in addition to exploiting any offers. And against the well-known argument of both the government and the former governments and other parties, that the state has no money, there is a crisis and it goes on to say, the reality is that both in the period of increased growth rates its state and its capital, with all its governments, were underfunding the public health system, did not develop the necessary infrastructure, while taking measures to cut public benefits, while patients paid much more. All this today, of course, is accelerating and multiplying, because steam-engine growth in business groups is in complete contrast with popular social needs. Thus, the state never has money for the needs of the people, nor in the phase of capitalist development, nor in the phase of the capitalist economic crisis, because it is a political choice to give all kinds of business support through tax exemptions, tax reliefs or with warm money directly to ensure their high profitability. However, what workers produce, and much more what they are prevented from producing because of capitalist property, reaches for the development of a public, modern, universal and free health system. The government, like all previous governments, are making use of this type of agreement, such as the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, to influence with multiple objectives - ideologically, of course - the people, the workers: on the one hand, to cultivate in the territory of the serious problems of the people's families the human face of the system of capitalism, the system of exploitation, so that our workers and our people can be reconciled with the idea that as much as the profitability of businessmen goes, they can also have no crumbs and, at the same time, workers become addicted to the concept of social services and benefits not as a right, but as charity. Because at the same time all these business groups, for example, see themselves as a source of war, even claiming a fundamental increase in wages, an improvement in working and safety conditions, in other words by creating working and living conditions in the past decades. But is it known that what works in this area as well? Cost-benefit. Thus, they either have a very small share of the profits earned by workers themselves in order to obtain a multiple profit, seeking the integration and so-called social peace, while the government, like the previous ones in favour of pluralism, contributes to the right of patients to necessary infrastructures, equipment, etc. public health structures to be presented as an offer by those who condemn the people to impoverishment. This is the content of the hefty thanks to both the Prime Minister and the Government, for example, last year I remind the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, as well as the respective government ministers, but also to all other parties and the Nazi criminal shape of the Golden Dawn in the respective debates of the bills in the House on these donations. So you give all your credit together, applauding those who, with your policies, serve so that their profits are not affected. That is why you all agree and do not say a word about the fifty-seven exemptions that shipowners or duty-free oil have, when the people and farmers pay it, bringing the cost of producing products up and so, when, for example, participation in the period of crisis from the huge and unsatisfactory profits of all these shipowners and business groups, who contribute to tax revenues, is only 5%, while the people are breaking it down before and now, who pays up to 95% of the tax revenues. Even in the reduction of this famous voluntary contribution to tax revenue you have reduced it and no one, other than the Communist Party, said that this voluntary contribution was even reduced from 110 million to 40 million. Isn't that what you all agreed on? For example, in the recent Review of the Constitution, did you not reject the two major parties and the others, the proposals of the Communist Party to remove the privileges of shipowners, and indeed, did you insist on the stay of their privileges? Of course, the list has no end, it is a long one. So the so-called "national benefactor" after plundering the wealth of our country and not only, the workers through the wild exploitation, comes with the blessings of the urban state, the governments and gives five dozen of its unblemished profits, which came at a price even the lives of tens of workers in the shipyards as well as hundreds of inhabitants as a result of the contamination that it caused in the Trinity. Are we forgetting this? Do you forget? Because even that money he gives is the workers' money. And we do not launder him and his class, as does the current government that has been certified as a modern laundry of business groups and their state. Is this not because, for example, the fact that decades ago Thessaloniki - since we are discussing the donation of the Stavros Niarchor Foundation, which came and we discussed it in plenary and that part - is it without a paediatric hospital or that the public hospitals and health centres which were built are increasingly strengthening their business and merchandise characteristics and that those which will be built in this regime will also work? Or is it not true, for example, that the entire Eastern Attica has some half-functioning health centers and not a public hospital, or that public health units are understaffed and constantly increasing the number of health establishments, which are interchangeable between unemployment and cheap temporary work, or that 4 billion euros annually go for naval military expenditure to participate in the massive land where there is no more euros for people's health? So after the supply of pet scan at university hospitals in the territory and production for the establishment of radiopharmaceutical plants, we also put to the committee - if you would like - some questions, how will staff and how will they be staffed, what will be the conditions for the provision of services? Will the State finance it really so as to provide free services or to charge them to the underfinanced insurance funds and to the contributions of workers and pensioners? Will workers be full-time, well-paid, or will they be with modern employment relationships similar to businesses and a similar perception of the operation of such equipment, which are used as means of obtaining hospital revenues from patients' direct and indirect payments in order to be sustainable? We have also made a reference to the committee - and we are now pointing out - in Article 1, where it refers to the supply of aircraft and the repair of helicopters after the conclusion of a contract between the Ministries, after their delivery, namely the signing of a contract between the Ministries and the question we have put, if you like, on the observation, concerns the conditions to be met, and for which there should be agreement, as stated, and the approval of the institution. We also say that this means indirect interference in the air transport system by the institution and, if necessary, the criterion of freedom to refuse to agree by the institution. In concluding our position on the bill, we consider and say quite clearly that our vote expresses our criticism of the responsibilities and the present government, which, through its policy for pluralism, cuts public health benefits, increases recompense and payments to health services, medicines, tests and others, contributing to the right of the people, patients, either in the necessary public units, in medical equipment, or in the means of transport, to be presented as an offer, benefit from those who exploit and enrich from the hardship, labor and the bloody sacrifices of our people, while condemning it to impoverishment. Allow me, Mr President, to take the time left to make a position on the famous tax amendment. The government here - we have heard just before the debate or interventions of the parliamentary representatives and SYRIZA and others, the previous period and the previous days - also wants a reward for this amendment. This is a mockery, a mockery of the so-called social sensitivity it has. In fact, an anti-grassroots measure is being abolished and at the same time it goes unreasonable. On the one hand, it gives it on the other hand so as not to harm the "blooded" excesses of the "bleeding" of the people. In spite of what the Prime Minister and his lionisations of the Prime Minister were yesterday, but also of the Government, it is full alignment with the budgetary discipline of the Commission, the European Union and the institutions. So the government's refusal to reduce duty is also explained, namely the amendment tabled by the Communist Party of Greece in May and which we have certainly also tabled in today's bill. We believe that it is a solution to vote in favour of this amendment by the Communist Party, which actually means a real reduction in duty without conditions and conditions which are affecting our people again. Of course, this amendment to abolish tax reductions does not only concern incomes of employees and pensioners, but also extends to abolishing tax reductions to self-employed persons. We call on the House to vote for it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too. It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the educational program "Court of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, thirteen students and students and two attendants of teachers from the Cuvara Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. George Mavrotas from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by wishing the children who since yesterday have been in the process of pan-Hellenic examinations, yesterday in PESALs, today in general high school and say to them - firstly - not to be afraid of the anxiety they have and - secondly - that this will not be the only 'door' that they will encounter in their lives. Let's go to the bill. The last day of the House today, the last bill. It concerns the ratification of individual contracts for Projects V and VI of the donation by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the Ministry of Health. However, today's 'jumble' is not so much the bill itself, but the amendments, especially the one concerning the abolition of tax reductions which would apply from 1 to 2020, which is certainly unfair to the donation bill, which turns into a'vehicle' of amendments. We have so far twelve ministerial and twelve parliamentarians in the 'prechain' to wait. I shall start with a few words about the donation from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. It concerns the two projects V and VI of the total donation, namely the supply of new equipment, as well as the maintenance of the existing one, with a view to strengthening the capacity and efficiency of the ACF aerospace facilities. Project VI concerns the supply and installation of special pet scan medical equipment, as well as the creation of radiopharmaceutical plants in selected public nursing establishments in Heraklion, Yannina, Larissa and Thessaloniki. These are two extremely important projects, which show the synergies of the private and public sectors and how they can upgrade health services in our country when we go beyond 'children' diseases. Specifically Project V cost 25 million for the upgrading of aerospace facilities with two new planes and for the maintenance of two helicopters is extremely important for the EAW and our country. In a country with intense "insularity" and "shortness" it is crucial that citizens feel safe in health matters wherever they are located, even on the most distant island. With this critical donation, the heroic donation is being praised, I would say, a contribution from the ACAB Aerospace Department, which has even paid a blood tax on duty, as was the case with my classmate, the doctor of EKAV Sofia Befon, who lost her life in the tragic accident with the EKAB helicopter in 2001, along with four other passengers. Project VI concerns the supply and installation of special medical equipment Pet positron emitter, as well as the creation of radiopharmaceutical plants in four selected hospitals in the country, as we said. This project will contribute to the overall upgrading of the health system, as radiopharmaceutical production units will be established and necessary for the health coverage of the population and the fullest functioning of a modern public health system and is therefore considered extremely necessary for Greek cancer patients. I shall start with the amendment to abolish tax reductions. In general, the aim of reducing duty could be theoretically correct. Enlargement of the tax base, less than any other. That's in theory. In practice, however, we have said so, and when you voted to reduce duty, we do not achieve what was done. Why is it not about freelance professionals - they have no tax, they are taxed from the first euro - and it is not about income from real estate, deposits, etc. they are taxed on their own and have a separate scale without tax. Finally, the only ones who will be invited to pay taxes, while they did not pay, are pensioners with an income of 5,600 to 9,000 euros a year. But they are already paid from the Treasury. I mean, the state's gonna take it out of one pocket and put it on the other. The increase in taxation for this group is budgetaryly equivalent to the reduction in the pensions of this group. Giving you a hundred and taking you twenty is the same thing as giving you eighty straight. The second category of those affected because they did not pay, and now they will pay are workers mainly in the private sector with monthly net earnings of EUR 400 to EUR 630, i.e. gross EUR 480 to EUR 750 if we consider fourteen wages. However, employees in the country are already paying high insurance contributions from EUR 1. In other words, it is not accurate that they do not participate in the financial burdens. An amount equal to 41% of their gross earnings is directed to the public funds. Since insurance has, therefore, become essentially tax in Greece, insurance contributions are already high and in this sense employees, even those who are tax-free up to now, are not taxed. The third and most important, in our view, are not only the low wages, which will be paid for the first time, i.e. the first scales, which will be imposed, but also the fact that those who have already paid and lifted the heavy burden of budgetary adjustment, namely medium and medium-sized incomes, will also be charged with this fall in tax. Those who have an income, that is over EUR 10,000, are invited to pay an additional EUR 650 a year by reducing tax. And because, as you have seen, in the last four years, which is the Potami in the House, we are not only criticising, but also making proposals, so will we do until the last minute, until today. How could a reduction in duty be acceptable and sustainable to widen the tax base? This could be done if economic policy were not carried out individually and fragmentally. There must be a holistic approach taking into account all the parameters. For example, a reduction in duty, while reducing insurance contributions. For example, contributions in favour of housing and work experience, especially for low wages. Also, the abolition of supplementary insurance for low-wages when there are many countries in Europe where compulsory insurance contributions for supplementary insurance other than the first pillar, the first pillar being the main pension, are beginning to bear incomes from a threshold and above, as is the case in the Netherlands, France, Switzerland and England. One such proposal has been made by IOBE in his proposal for insurance. In other words, low wages do not pay supplementary insurance contributions and introduce a threshold, which is to pay 6% over a threshold of EUR 9,000-9,100. A second we could propose is compensatory measures for low-pension workers, a lower contribution to medicines, a reduction in medical expenses, because they will not benefit from the reduction of insurance contributions or their abolition for small incomes. A third would be the creation of an intermediate tax scale with a lower rate of taxation, i.e. 10% for incomes of EUR 5,600-10,000. A lower, i.e. an intermediate, reduces the problem. The tax is increasing for those who pay nothing, but clearly less than the current situation. Furthermore, the increase in the small and medium-sized income tax is being cancelled, namely those that are more than EUR 10,000, which is also the targeting of the legislator. Furthermore, the logic of paying a little bit of those who have so far not paid the tax base - rather than paying more for those who had already borne the heavy burden, is something that we should pursue. On the contrary, you are also abolishing the reduction in the tax rate from 22% to 20%, which was voted on in countermeasures. Now he goes to the altar of abolishing tax reduction. Finally, a fourth measure could be that any general reduction in duty should be accompanied by a large and substantial increase in duty for each child in order to fully compensate for it. This would also be a policy that is friendly to tackle our major demographic problem or could be a mixture of these four, let alone be political. We all say this because there must be serious alternatives. Not only do we abolish the countermeasures, which show a targeting and a comprehensive design rather than horizontal reductions - not 'take back the measure, because we want', as has been tabled by other parties - but there is a serious counter-proposal. This is because, in the event of the removal of the measure, we should also weigh the impact that this energy will have on international markets. It will be another message that the country is pulling out the reform sweater, another blow to the country's credibility, but if there is a serious plan, a serious counter-proposal, a serious alternative, that would contribute to the country's credibility. With regard to the other amendments, some may indeed be necessary to continue the operation of the State and others are the result of inaction when they have to be done. An important criterion for us is whether you will accept the parliamentary amendments, which was not the case last Wednesday. The Minister resisted the parliamentary amendments, which are not very few. If the Minister will stay on this line, on this line or if anything has changed in relation to Wednesday - if he has become a Ministerial Council again and changed the position - then we will expect to hear it. In closing the last few minutes, because this is my last speech in Parliament, I would like to thank the Members of all the parties for their cooperation through fertile, most of the time, controversy. I would also like to thank the always - and I would like to thank the Members of this House - who have actually helped us as parliamentarians, and especially to thank my colleagues at the office who worked seven days a week, twenty-four hours a day, to be properly prepared. Also, the river’s associates, the children from parliamentary support, due to a large part of the very good picture of the Potami in the House. You may have disagreed with our positions, but you will not disagree that we have always been well read. Of course, I should also like to thank Stavros for opening the door to me for this nice trip that doesn't end here. The course of the River in the House reminded me of my childhood. "What kind of team are you?" they asked. "Panionios" you were answering. "And of the big ones?" they told you. The river refused to answer that question and that was the target of both majors. Of course, and of the respective media, some well-known journalists I hear celebrating ironically, as usual, for their fall. But don't hurry to slay the river. He may not be present in the next House, but he will be present at the political stage, because in a transitional and fluid period such as the one we are going through, his fertile, rational, synthetic word needs to be used. And because the good ones aren't lost, and the river is good for the place, it won't be lost. Only for a short time will it restrain and reintroduce, because the need for creation, worthiness, wisdom, composition, pursuit of consensus, institutional armour, the need for progressive solutions, beyond ideological trenches, which the Potami proclaims, will never cease to be timely for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u42	We are also grateful to Mr Mavrotas, who was an important voice in this House, a voice like these, which, in my opinion, needs Parliament. Mr Stathakis now has the floor to put forward some amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the two amendments are the ones. The first concerns energy regulations. It is essentially two articles on the authorisations and operation of renewable energy sources. These are deadlines which have not been covered by public administration. I would remind you that this is a large category of ECU 2 billion. Investments in RES, to be completed by 31/12-2019. In such cases, the first Article substantially extends the duration of the final connecting bids of the RES power plants, if a complete request has been made, shall be understood to permit forty-five days before the expiry of the definitive connecting offer. So those who make the investment have submitted the request in good time, forty-five days ago, and for reasons of public administration, IPTO or other services, risk losing the license. The same shall apply to the second Article. After the project has been completed and requesting a connection to IPTO - I repeat the project - the activation of the link, this connection may take place within three months. We are giving IPTO three months to complete the dossier and give the final authorisation. I repeat, therefore, that both relate to necessary arrangements. Tens of articles have been written this week from the whole press about the risk we run if we do not correct - I repeat with cause always on the part of the public administration - these deadlines. The third article of the amendment excludes members of the energy communities from ECA's compulsory insurance. They're starting funding programmes for energy communities this month. This clarification was therefore necessary. Also, in the latter article, the legislation that exists with that of the Ministry of Finance, which since May 2019 has been in force, but which has many loose ends from previous problem legislation. Such procedures shall, in essence, be consolidated into one. These are the energy regulations. I repeat that all, the first two, are urgent in nature, like the last, and there is a procedural, clarification for launching the NSRPs for energy communities in the next few years. That was Amendment No 2232/193. The next amendment under number 2248 concerns one section, the RAE. The primary issue is that in June 2019 the 50-five contracts expire. It's the main volume of workers in RAE. At the same time, some months have been announced by the AACC for some these and a few more positions. They'll be hired permanently through ASPD. In June, therefore, if workers' contracts are not renewed, practically RAE is closed and the extension deadline is set for a year, assuming that the AACC process of permanent staff will be completed within that time. It is also offered to the Regulatory Authority for Energy, Judicial Defense, regulations applicable to many other independent authorities - AADE, Competition Commission, National Telecommunications and Post Commission - with Articles 1 and 2, and is of course entitled to give it an opinion on the recruitment of qualified scientific staff. I would remind you that the RAE is performing an important, decisive role as an independent energy authority. The subsequent provisions are also urgent. The first with regard to the application of a long-term mechanism of power adequacy. What does that mean? All units of PPC and private individuals are subsidised for security reasons of the system. This regulation is an urgent one, because on 15 June the new European mechanism is being activated. This is necessary in order for all PPC's units, existing and manufactured, for example Ptolemais 5, to be able to join the PT system after the notification of 15 June, which will come out of a corresponding provision at European level. The second article of the amendment relates to a sub-theme, the well-known 'Polypto' project linking RES, which has been paid by IPTO. As regards the deadlines within which this project will be paid by private producers for the benefit of IPTO, an extension of the time limit within which these individuals will agree with IPTO to pay most of the project, as provided for in the relevant contracts. We're giving a little more time to be able to reach an agreement. The last article of the amendment, which is also important and with a safe time horizon directly, concerns the production of electricity in Crete. The operation of the units of Crete ends on 31-12-2019. Their ability to operate is extended, if they make changes and show an environmental balance, until Crete is connected with the two cables, which will take place in 2022 and 2023. This extension is necessary and takes about six months to be able to proceed bureaucraticly. Therefore, this Article ensures the energy security of Crete in a lawful manner until the completion of the two interconnections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-nine members of the Parents and Gardens Association of the Municipal School of Kunavon Heraklion. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Lebanese has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's government's course is being closed with the Ministry of Health's current bill. Today, a circle of parliamentarians is being completed, but also a circle of staff for each and every one of us. For some Members today it may be the last time that the Greek Parliament has taken a step. Today we all counted against history and democracy. In the last four years we have all witnessed a titanic effort to reconstruct and expand public health structures. The government can be proud to have received a broken system and created an unprecedented deprivation of resources a reliable, strong and capable of meeting the real needs of the Greek people. The philosophy of governance, the hierarchy of needs and the painful effort to tackle the real problems together with the responsible management of fewer resources achieved what it imagined impossible in such a short time in the specific economic data. The attitude and responsibility of the members of the government, the practical support from the vast majority of the workers in health structures and the efficiency shown by the government in the time that the former have failed, also persuaded organisations such as the Stavros Niarchus Foundation to multiply donations, cooperate with the government and meet real needs. Their valuable help in the purchase of equipment, the renewal of the EKA fleet, and today the donation of the air means has covered many needs. The confidence they have shown, not only by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, but also by other organizations, is based on the fact that the current government proved in practice its firm position to strengthen the structures of the public in order to help the overwhelming majority and the needs of the Greek people. The Government has succeeded in creating new structures, modernise and rebuild hospitals, recruit scientific and auxiliary staff, limiting costs, stopping the party set up through communication companies and other practices, in order for specific persons to be fruitful of public money. Perhaps this also explains the fact that some, mostly electronic media against SYRIZA and the members of the government. The Greek people will be invited in a few days to decide the road we will follow in the coming years. The abolition of duty-free reduction, which is included in today's amendments, is another positive step in a series of initiatives which promise better days for everyone. The fact that the funds are full, the insurance system is sustainable and the public and free services of the social state have largely been restored is some of the great achievements of the current government. Faced with the humanitarian crisis, the equal return on resources in all the regions and counties of the country, the real reinforcement of local government with resources, staff and essential responsibilities is the legacy of this government that has managed to build up the economy to a large extent, facing pathogens of decades and keeping society upright. The government, with the support of the Greek people, has achieved a great deal, creating the necessary conditions to create a new wealth and better data. The four years that passed concerned the weakest social strata whose potential for survival until 2015 was threatened. In the four years to come, the time to breathe the middle class, the backbone of the Greek economy, arrived. Small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed, public and private employees have in practice supported this difficult effort to stabilise our country. The Greek people know that the government, despite mistakes or omissions, despite delays in critical issues, despite the fact that many still find it difficult not to see the improvement in their everyday lives, fought honestly and striving for a better tomorrow for all. The Greek people on 7 July will not make any hasty decisions and will in particular not jeopardise the return of all those responsible for economic bankruptcy and social collapse. On 7 July the Greek people will again choose SYRIZA for government and Alexis Tsipras for Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u46	Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. It is the last day of Parliament's work and regardless of the fast track procedures that have been decided, I think we need to speak more widely. I feel the need to say two words to Parliament on the country's historic route since 1974, on the major economic and social progress achieved in post-population, which was mainly the work of the PASOK governments, but also on the mistakes, omissions and regressions. I would like to say that this progress has not been ensured since 2003, which we joined the hard core of the European Union, nor has the high standard of living been preserved by the Greek people. Unfortunately, we are backwards and it is now clear. The 2004-2009 period brought the crisis and the first memorandum. Unfortunately, there was no national understanding. "Zapipia" on the one hand, "an article and a Memorandum Elimination Act" on the other hand, was questioning and curbing the crisis. And within it came the second party that caused a memorandum and it's no longer from the SYRIZA party. We have all managed memorials other than the JRC and other forces, but two parties have produced a memorandum, the New Democracy of Mr Karamanlis and Mr. Tsipras' SYRIZA. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] You laugh, because you don't understand what the word 'provoked' means, but you think he's the one who signed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u48	Another created.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u49	It characterizes you. It characterizes you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u50	Come on, last day...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u51	But are you making the point to me, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u52	I'm addressing everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u53	Oh, because your look at it this way, that's why. You're all addressing it. Even the last day you can't hear truths. But how to hear truths, since you have filled the Greek people with lies and not only lies, but also acts based on lies. You are the ones who questioned the progress of post-population and revived old-fashioned communism. PASOK, ladies and gentlemen, is the only party that colluded with established structures - the New Democracy lacks to hear them, but it hears them from the public speech - and the time has come and decided and institutionalised democratic, transparent and worthy of democracy. The APA is not alone, it is not just the APA for the aptitude selection of public administration officials. It is the whole of the independent authorities, it is the whole of the institutions for transparency. Even DENMARK is an act that cares for us all to be better treated, all the governors and the managers as well. Sadly, you tried to keep them and exceed them. And the phenomenon of the last few days is part of this choice. You seem to have been hampered by the extreme right-wing extremists that you've got in your party, but also by the gynoologists, all of those rotten system that even in our party were and we expelled them, these guys who came to you for the chair that you could occasionally offer them. It is well known the names, it is not worth it, nor should anyone mention them. Today, then, last day of Parliament's work, we have been placed for the process as it has come. And I think the last day is reflected in your practice what you believe. While you are bringing the tax reduction, which you had voted for on your own - when we said that we do not need, when Mr Tsakalots said that he would resign if he signed a new tax reduction, which should now take place again - at the same time bring provisions and abolish positive measures, which the whole House has voted on. At the same time, you are bringing in provisions and abolishing positive measures and we do not know why, you have not explained that. Did they force it on you? Aren't we out of the memorial? What exactly is going on? It is an unacceptable process, even from the regulations and amendments relating to matters that exist. For some time now, we have tabled a proposal for a law to abolish the rule that you had voted on to reduce duty, and you did not bring it to the House for debate. While the Bureau of Parliament is required to set a specific day, one Thursday each month, to discuss a proposal for a law, it systematically violates it. There are around the fourteen legislative proposals of all the parties that have not been discussed in this House. Why'd you break the Rules of Procedure like that? I come to two other issues on public work. We have been asking for timely questions to be put to you and to make a contribution to the programme so that the time can be extended. And you come today, last day, and what do you think? They may, he says, extend by four months. They can. A sad mayor, in other words, who was not elected and who is not concerned, may not take them. But the program is single, gentlemen, it's not for every municipality separately. It is uniform throughout Greece by means of uniform rules. You're doing the same thing with working contracts at the Ministry of Health. Previously, we met with the cleaners from hospitals. There is no uniform regulation. And this is where the commander can! Why can the commander and can the administrations? The regulation must be uniform. Is there an extension for six months, one year, three months, twelve months? Put it clearly inside. I have brought these as examples. There are, therefore, issues that the House could have voted for for a long time but also today. As soon as you put them in an article and in a law, I think that those who participate in the process will not vote. We have made it clear that we are saying our political views and of course we are putting them before Parliament, but in the voting process we are not taking part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u54	Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u55	Whispers and whispers, incredible demonology, unbearable lightness for the House to have already closed its work. However, the debate in plenary on the donation of the Stavros Niarchus Foundation gives us another opportunity to serve patients, the National Health System, to our MPs to express our thanks to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the Onassis Foundation, the OPAP, to the institutions of government, to many other donors, to all those who decided to contribute to the building of new hospitals and wings, to the building-up of buildings, to modern biomedical equipment, to the quality improvement of the infrastructures of many hospitals in the country, together with the Trikalon hospital, at a time when the difference in the design of the New Democracy and SYRIZA is evident on the critical issues that concern health. Today's plenary allows us to compare policies, to see that the degradation, the collapse of the public health system, left by the government of Samaras with its choices, was replaced by efforts to support, upgrade the ESS in 2015-2019. This debate is avoiding New Democracy. It avoids mentioning the consequences of the insufficient staffing of hospitals, emergency departments, ICUs, MIDs, artificial kidney units, oncological departments, health centres, regional hospitals, if rule 1 to 5 applies. It avoids mentioning the consequences of the sale to private interests of the hospital management, from the return of the contractors, from the minimisation of the EOPY funding, from the return to the old, sinful, procurement system, from the abolition of the local health units and the return to the visits of the doctors involved, which expired in the first days of each month, from returning to the voucher system for uninsured persons. WTO, New Democracy, KINAL, Opposition generally highlights today's staffing gaps. However, it does not make any criticism of system 1 to 5. It makes no criticism of the neoliberal health plan, the privatisation of health services, the strengthening of diagnostics at the expense of free professional laboratory doctors. They know, however, that the SYRIZA's alternative plan for health is the path towards completing the reform of the Primary Health Care, to the operation of self-interested emergency departments and to the overall strengthening of emergency care, aerospace, floating spaces, EKAB, to the upgrading of mental health structures, to the 'National Health at Home' programme and public rehabilitation structures, to the disappearance of the remula, to the dismantling of public money, to the drug, to the two and a half thousand recruitments per year - which we have decided - to the quality completion of the National Health System. We must allow citizens to know and compare conflicting plans in health, medicine, the social state, industrial relations, employment, the insurance system, the productive model, fair and sustainable development, the pressures exerted by the neoliberal European nomenclura - and we are living in these days - which they are supposed to have found that the budget and we may have derailment. He's found it now. It was found when all those guarantees and clear programs of our financial staff have been accepted that all the data are available. Today we also want to approve the abolition of duty-free reduction, an issue on which the difference of understanding seems again to be apparent. Look what you're saying. It has tabled a proposal to abolish duty for too many months. The New Democracy followed and the Communist Party of Greece. We were supposed to be able to do this at that time despite the extortion of creditors, despite controls. Today you, in particular, of the New Democracy, of KINAL, are saying that it should not be today because it should not be voted on. And if you vote, compare it to other issues that you knew about the extortion of lenders. In 2017, do you remember what happened with the second evaluation? Do you not remember what blackmail the International Monetary Fund was blackmailing so that the government cannot proceed to all those measures, both for pensions and for taxfree? Did you eliminate the blackmails? Do you not know what the landscape is in neoliberal Europe, where this wing mainly supports the Vebber project? Don't they know that? Do they not know what the impact on planning for Greece of the new era are? They know them very well. But what are they doing? By fleeing, they are trying to avoid critical comparisons. By escaping questions like which Greece we received, when we went to power, what public funds of less than 400 million euros have we found and what are we leaving today with a reserve of 31 billion? What was the situation in employment, the level of unemployment, what were all those possibilities which were not there, and today there are so that the economy has a real recovery? So these are the issues of comparisons and conflicts that we will be doing in the next few years, so that even now the Greek people can decide. We are sure that what it will do will be to demonstrate the maturity that it has shown at critical times in history when the issues that are to be compared come out unresolved, as are the alternative plans for deciding what government wants in the next period, namely a neoliberal government with a trunk of New Democracy or a progressive government with a trunk of SYRIZA and all the other forces of the progressive space, the ecological space to which we are addressing a call for programmatic convergence. Today's debate also enables us to tell the children who are preparing for the 'good luck' examinations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u56	So do we. Mr. Barkas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the two amendments concerning the Ministry of Labour's portfolio, the amendment with a general number of 2229 and a special 190 and the amendment with a general number of 2230 and a special 191. I shall begin with the provision concerning the OAED's cleaning staff. This regulation extends the validity of fixed-term private-law contracts for cleaning staff to OAED until 30 September 2019 in order to address the problem of banning new recruitment in the light of the parliamentary elections on 7 July in order to avoid any risk to public health due to deficiencies in cleaning staff. With regard to the amendment to the members of the Greek minority of Albania, this regulation abolishes the time restrictions referred to in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Article 93(1) of Law No4387/2016 as regards the conditions for receiving the allowance for uninsured over-ages for members of the Greek minority in Albania. This regulation concerns several thousand members of our fellow citizens, members of this particular minority, who, for bureaucratic reasons, could not join the beneficiaries of this allowance. In particular, the beneficiaries of the following category will receive this allowance without requiring: first, that they stay permanently and legally in Greece 15 consecutive years prior to the application for the allowance or 15 years between the 17th and the sixteenth year of their age; second, that they have completed in Greece at least thirty-five full years of residence in order to receive them full the amount of the allowance. I left for the end the provision on public employment programmes, where a great deal of dialogue has been developed. These programmes aim and aim to address the impact of long-term unemployment, as developed in our country between 2010 and 2015 and to reconnect unemployed people to the labour market through the acquisition of professional experience and new skills. At the same time, people employed in these programmes produce measurable work for local communities by implementing projects declared by municipalities and regions across the country. Since 2016, the Government, the Ministry of Labour, gave projects upgraded working and insurance in respect of their rights, while at the same time extending the employment of the beneficiaries from five to eight months. We have introduced advisory support actions, but also voluntary training in specialised training centres with the possibility of certification. Since 2015 eight public employment programmes have been completed in our country with the benefit of the seventy thousand. Four programmes totalling EUR 331 million are currently in operation, forty-four thousand four hundred fourteen people. To date, it has also been possible to extend two public programmes of a general nature, subject to legislation. In particular, I am referring to the employment programme in refugee structures, hot spots and anti-nuclear protection programmes. These are an exception, as we all know this - and also the timely preparation of the anti-nuclear period, such as the continuation of the most effective management of the refugee crisis. You know that we are already preparing for the second cycle of public works in municipalities and regions, which, as we have announced, will begin in October. I also had already announced, on the occasion of a timely question in the House before the self-government elections, that it was our intention not to leave the municipalities and regions with no support in a period of tourism during which the needs for services and for projects are increased in particular, but also, as I have said, they produce extremely useful work, for example, in the field of preventing natural disasters in local communities. So, in response to the two hundred ninety-nine requests from the local authorities, mainly municipalities and regions, supported through this programme of public interest, as well as to the demands of the people who are employed through these programmes, but also in the light of the public interest and of our commitment not to leave time gaps between the two programmes, we are today giving the possibility of extending the length of the programmes of a public nature to the localities, municipalities and regions. I would like to announce from this Step officially, by stopping the misinformation from various Internet sites and newspapers, that this legislation is the first step in order to extend the first cycle of a public-private programme to municipalities, which is currently running for four months, so that any emergency and urgent needs can be addressed, especially for municipalities and municipal services, which need immediate intervention and the new cycle to be synchronised with the new self-government authorities taking office in the autumn. Mr President, to conclude, I would also like to table a legislative improvement in Amendment No 2230/191. It is one intervention, we add one sentence: in case (c) of the first proposed provision, the words 'in municipalities and regions' are replaced by 'in municipalities, regions and other legal entities governed by public law'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u58	Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos has the floor from the Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today as a parliamentary group to raise issues relating to the country's course, but also to actually see who the House has served in recent days and who wants to serve. I disagree with my party that this House should not be left open. Do you know why, colleagues? Because we would not see the character of a government that in recent days actually legislates about 'friends', for whichever little and great ruse blamed everyone else. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, playing it - supposedly - left, right-wing slogan against elite and admit publicly that you are appointed because you have connections - is worse than right-wing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u60	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u61	We're here to tell the names. But this is not what anyone has said but your colleague has said. He said it in public. He didn't hide it. Secondly, because I hear your opinion on the North Korean, today I saw that you broke the embargo. What happened? Are your MPs going to North Korean? Did you forget that, ladies and gentlemen? Is the fight against thorn? Is he going to the price of the election period, too? Ladies and gentlemen, I have three fundamental points to raise, which have also been raised by my colleagues. If we are accusing the President of Parliament today, in no way personal, but on his institutional status, it is because he has not brought the House a year to discuss our duty-free proposal. That is the big problem, that he did not use the parliamentary rules, so that he could come to the House and discuss the parties to make their decisions. And at the same time you blame us. You say 'how do you not vote?'. But are we going to vote and vote together? We have an amendment that ends the subject of duty-free. You are making the reduction of the lower level of tax for the poorest. From 22% to 20%. How many millions is that? It's 870 million. You are leaving out the reduction of the ENPIA, which is 209 million, the reduction of the solidarity levy. So here you must vote, if you want, on our amendment, which is all it does is bring things back to where it was. Secondly, I believe that the state should support the private sector. But today you are doing something, Minister, with which I would like to tell you that you are showing one part of your sensitivity. From the Public Investment Program we support the Greek Sugar Industry and all producers. That's right. But it was announced yesterday, Mr. Minister, the closure of two factories at the "FRIGOGLASS" in Lower Achaia and the "Galla Vlaas" with seventy-six employees in Platy Imathia. I wonder why we don't give these people the wages from the Public Investment Programme? Aren't they workers? Don't they have families? Don't they have kids? Their kids don't run tests? Is that the Left, ladies and gentlemen? The hundred and fifty employees of the "FRIGOGLASS" and "Blahah" are throwing them away, but are we not? I believe that if you are fair, we should pay the Public Investment Programme all. No, ladies and gentlemen! You don't care about the workers. You're interested in voters - possibly workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u62	We're interested in the workers, but we're not populists like you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u63	I want to say that because it didn't sound good. I mean, dear friends and friends, a SYRIZA MP accused me of populism! This is the biggest joke of Postmultition! Thank you very much! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I shall now conclude, ladies and gentlemen. From this Stepma, despite the fact that it's the last day and no one knows who's gonna be the next day here and who's not, there's people leaving high-headed and there's people who don't leave high-headed. Our prolongation leaves our head high because it did not fear even at the most difficult times for the country it put in front of the national interest and even reached 4%. It wasn't bought for positions, but it has principles and values. That is why citizens know that a progressive party is one in the country, the PASOK, the Change Movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u65	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u66	I have a reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u67	What's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u68	The amendment concerning seventeen thousand pensioners at the time of submission of 11.20'. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u69	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. An amendment concerning sixteen or seventeen thousand pensioners of the "National", with controversial content, was tabled at the time of submission. It will be developed and condemned by Mrs Christophilopoulou. He is now sharing with the Members. That's why we're leaving, because we're not gonna work on such methods anymore. Mr President, you too are a Bureau. At 11.20 a.m., at the last minute of the last draft law, will there be an amendment to which they are outside workers and are shouting? That's not things. And if there's anything positive that I can't see -- they say there's no - how can we talk about it and understand it? Please withdraw it very much. We can't talk about her. Nor is there a minister here to explain it. My colleague just left the Ministry of Labour. What will happen, Mr President? What's gonna happen? So, what's that now? It's a parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Cameroon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to place myself in the attack we are accepting on the tabling of amendments, as a moment ago, especially the Members of Parliament, because I am also one of the Members who have tabled amendments. I was sent here by my compatriots from twenty-five inhabited islands to fight for their problems in here, from islands that have no contact with each other, from islands that don't know each other. The inhabitants of Agathonisi do not know either the inhabitants of Kastelorizos from Kassos or from Astypaleah the inhabitants of Halki. And the same goes for all the islands. It's the hardest county ever. I feel, therefore, that I have an obligation until the last day that Parliament normally works to fight for the problems of my country in here! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And as we've been used to all these years, they've been trying to get us to their feet. They've been doing this since the first moment our government came out and not only in cases where there were real issues and they grew up to show that "no, they're like us", but they also made false news, precisely because that's what they're bothering them. That's what they wanted to show, that we're like them. Now, however, these days have gone too far on the subject of the amendments, but also on the subject that has been discussed in recent days with transfers, etc. The President was quite right to put the matter on the right side. We don't compare. We don't compare unparalleled things. Are we not particularly offset by whom? The ones who made appointments to the retired ones they had and who permanentd them in the House and in one night? And they come to talk about transfers that are from all agreed. They are not our 'children', as they were theirs. The President has said so very well and I do not want to come back. And they're now blaming us for that? We know their purpose. We have the channels, which from morning till night they say "they also leave and do the same." As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to say to my fellow Member who spoke before: Did he forget how many amendments came in 2014 in the last bill? Over a hundred. Is he forgetting about it? In fact, we should not compare the amendments, because I want to stay here. Please tell me what the 'photographic' amendments are and I will reply to you. Is it reasonable to ask: Well, did you bring them last day, last week? Do you know why? I'll answer you. Because they are amendments which have been worked not only months but years. They have been agreed with the ministers for over a year and we had to agree with two - three ministries. It happened that the ministries did not discuss with each other, but the services of the same Ministry did not discuss with each other. In other words, imagine how much trouble we have done to solve problems involving not only one county, but in most cases they concern the whole country. This is a problem for decades. I shall refer to specific examples. In this, of course, we have a responsibility as government, because the world has not seen whether there is a difference in the fight against bureaucracy. Ministers who have agreed on problems, cannot be imposed and the services have been dragged from there for over a year. That's why we brought them now, because we don't know what happens next. Even the same government as we don't know which ministers they will be, we don't know which consultants they will be, we don't know who directors will be and it'll be the same story from the very beginning and the world down to be afflicted. Let me give you a specific example and tell me whether it is a photographic amendment. I have said that tens of times: this amendment is the third or fourth time that comes to Parliament and the Ministers' response was 'yes, we agree, we will see it in the services'. When are we finally going to see her? How long are we going to wait? It concerns, for example, the 12th lane in the Dodecanese. I say it again: In the Dodecanese to determine the line of agialou and the beach are added 12 meters to the maximum winter wave. There's, like, a strip of twelve meters. That's good, it's for the environment, because that's how the beaches are protected. Since 1948, however, the incorporation has been afflicted by those who own property within this strip, for automatically the property has become demolished, not even expropriate. They can't do anything, and they're buildings that our grandparents and grandparents have done. We have a case in Lero, where a monastery is located within the twelve-and-a-half lane! Is it photographic, then, to say that the buildings are excluded before 1948 or what is recorded in the real estate register? Is it a photographic device? Tell me. Is the provision, which we worked for over two years, from 2014, that the law was passed by you, gentlemen, who stipulated that a presidential decree is needed to determine the limits of all the ramifications? You have said, for example, in the livestock register a ditch of fifteen, twenty points, and you need to delimit it to a presidential decree, which takes at least two, three years, not to mention the cost. Is it a photographic device to say that these are excluded and followed by the usual procedure that takes a year again? We have made an amendment of this kind, but it wants an improvement. I conclude with this in order to understand the size of bureaucracy: while we have made an amendment and say that there is no need for a Presidential Decree on demarcation, we should also say 'for temporary demarcation'. Look at the absurd. That is what the amendment is about today. However, under the responsibility of the absentees - the New Democracy, the PASOK and others - the inhabitants will still be troubled and do not know what will happen if this amendment is not passed today. What's the improvement we bring? There is no need for a President-in-Office's decree on demarcations, but it is necessary - that is the interpretation given by various legal services - for the temporary demarcation of the events. This supplement, this correction we make. Do you know how many are released and not only in the Dodecanese, but throughout the country, where there is or is there a land register? If these are 'photographic' provisions, let the people judge, let them judge those who vote in the next elections who are now telling them that 'we will come and solve it', that is, those who have created the problem so far. Let the people judge them in the elections coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, the elections have basically been opened, typically not. We are in this last part-session, I believe, of the Greek Parliament for this period under the last minute's 'colonial' amendments and other ruffles and transfers. It's really sad. Those who today still believe that they are supposed to represent the new and progressive, are older than the old. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak not only about the invasion of our fellow citizens, because you yourself voted for a reduction in duty, and you yourself said 'we have countermeasures'. You said that the poorening of the middle class recognizes it. I've heard Mr. Chuckato say it sometime. And not just...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u75	What did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u76	Whatever you say, the people have understood. You can interrupt me as many times as you like, and of course the President will take time as a debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u77	Please, Mr. Papadopoulos! You're ruining the delivery at today's last session.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u78	So you are coming today and you are bringing an amendment with which you are suddenly saying that the non-reduction of duty is accompanied by countermeasures. Because Parliament is called on - that is, you alone, because we will leave - to vote for both good and evil, that is, nothing, equal to zero. And in social sensitivity you get zero. And today you are bringing an amendment to 11.20; ladies and gentlemen, for seventeen thousand pensioners from the National Bank of Greece, who are not only unspeakable, not only are they sloppy, but you know very well that this problem has been the case for these people for over two years who do not receive supplementary pensions and ask questions, both timely and written, interventions and conventions on problems. And the opposition is prepared to resolve the issue, to solve it effectively, to solve it by study, to resolve it fairly for retired people. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary representative said 'What are these?' That sucks. At a glance I have had time to say - you see what time it is - you seem to divide the pensioners of the National Bank of Greece into two categories: the sucklers, those who are now retired - and you know very well that Greece's National Bank has started a new volunteer - and those who are already retired. The latter will enjoy the scheme relating to the contributions they and their employer have paid for so many years. The second ones, these poor guys who come out now, will have 40% less benefits for the same contributions. This is a disgrace, this is a division of pensioners into two categories. And bring it in without the study for the EIF. We said it to the Ministry of Labour, it's more than a year and a half now that the Change Movement is shouting inside and outside the House. And other parties do it. But we were the ones who brought us two and three times a timely question, and finally, after many efforts, Mr Petropoulos came here at some point, answering my own topical question and another Member of Parliament - I do not remember at this time to say who or who it was - and he said that he would resolve the issue and it is at least one year that has passed. One year, ladies and gentlemen! And now 11.20' that amendment is coming. And I say again, at least if he had a study, something, and he didn't separate pensioners, say "until the last minute you brought it, you solve it". But it seems to me to be the most unfair thing for retired people to do at a glance I have been able to read. Look, ladies and gentlemen, if you didn't want to do anything about it, like what you are doing now, I would remind you that we in the Change Movement on 7 February, with Mrs Gennimata's first signatory, had tabled a proposal for a law, which you could accept and which contained the total abolition of tax reductions and the reduction of the corporate tax rate from 29% to 20%. And for a minute, I want to refer to a special programme that gives wings really, and that's where it would be worth it to see how we find the money for our children who leave abroad, our children who are increasingly looking for their luck, children with studies or children with some technical training. We are therefore telling the Change Movement that the political forces must see this proposal for a law, but you have not brought it, Mr President. You have never brought her, nor any of the other proposals on demographics that we have brought, at least debated in Parliament, debated and considered. Oh, no! On February 7, this proposal was tabled by the Change Movement, and it was never that the Government and Parliament were able to bring it up for discussion, to discuss and see if it was worthy of our proposal, to see and see it in the State General Accounting Office, if the government wanted to show this sensitivity to young people. We are talking about a programme, therefore, where we have a three-year exemption from income tax and insurance contributions for young people starting their own business, because we do not demonise it, nor do we have those actions that bring investment and the future of our country. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS MAUROTAS]] But we are the ones who guarantee a strong social state, a modern social state, because we have built it and its mistakes and problems have endured. However, at the moment, the Greek citizens are invited to see exactly what is happening here in the Greek Parliament on the last day and why, for the last two - three months, our proposals have never come to plenary to discuss them? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I repeat: you have not been in the mood to discuss nor to engage in dialogue or consult. You did not have the slightest democratic sensitivity, which is why the Change Movement comes from this process, which it once again denounces.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u79	Mr Nicos Papadopoulos has the floor and I will give Mr King the floor to support two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. It happened to you last day to be your first meeting! Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u81	It's never too late!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u82	It's probably the last one, but it's pointless. You're one of the younger people and see how life will bring them to the next House. However, there is a real and deaf dialogue here, and I can say it. They found the Step to say, and then they leave. I would also like to ask the New Democracy and PASOK, although PASOK was in the government of 2014, to tell us what the farmers' tax was. Because I saw a big sushi for taxation. Let me tell you. The tax which they had done was 13% tax rate from the first euro, plus all subsidies on instruments, plus ELGA compensation, plus all instruments. That is, if you say there was a profit of EUR 500 million with EUR 1 billion, which is all the subsidies on the instrument, you understand that farmers would pay more than EUR 500 million with this system that they say, of the small rates of New Democracy and of the PASOK. They ruled. When we came, this system was found, plus the fact that we found the EUR 650 million of the trade end, which we also abolished. How much lie do you stand in front of this saying here and the PASOK and the New Democracy, and some others do? Now let's go see what we did to see the farmers too, and in the end I'll say what's waiting for them if SYRIZA isn't government. We did the tax-free, as you know, at EUR 9,500 for all families with children and for the couple at EUR 8,600, plus that in tax-free we put the greenery and 12,000 euros, which are linked support for farmers, plus that for tax-free entry for those who make organic farming or livestock. This is built on tax-free. The compensation received by farmers is out. The nitraters are out. Those who make any greenery are out of taxation. A farmer can actually build a tax-free, which is also EUR 30 000 and EUR 25 000 and EUR 15 000 depending on the cultivation he does. We are taxing him after all these profits so far with 22%. What's going on now? We have made another system, which we voted after Easter - if you remember - and now the Prime Minister's announcement of a 10% income tax, which reduces the actual tax by up to 50%, has come out. The second thing we have done for farmers is the depreciation factor of 150%. I mean, if you make an investment of 100,000 euros, you'll pay for 150,000 euros. It is a great incentive for farmers. There's a lot of things we've done, plus we've abolished and in 650, the trade end, there's not that. And we gave all these incentives through the cooperatives, because we believe in the cooperative movement and it's the vehicle that we say it will take the country out. Another thing that we need to see many times I have also caused the New Democracy and PASOK officials to tell us what their tax system is, what they think. No one ever said. They say the general 9% of the rate up to EUR 10,000, without any further clarification. What does that mean? This means that all farmers, small and medium-sized, will pay tax. Because here and here the PASOK does not mention it and the New Democracy does not mention it what will be and how its tax will be paid, i.e. they will be connected, they will be greening, what will be? They don't specify anything. So we have to tell farmers that the taxation they are preparing for farmers in a New Democracy government is 10% of the first euro. That's clean, and we'll probably have an escalation. What does that mean? That the small and medium-sized farmers - which we 85% are not paying tax now - will all pay tax. A farmer who has 5,000 net revenues with 10% will pay 500 euros tax, plus 650, the end of a trade, who will not say what they will do it. So it has to be clean to all of us, we have to know where we're going out. In conclusion, I would like to say this: I had made a speech here a long time ago with the positive ones, what has SYRIZA done over recent years. Only in the agricultural sector for seven minutes have I not been able to list what we have done for the agricultural sector. There are so many of them: from the people's markets, from the cooperatives, from the producer groups, everything, everything, we have done everything to promote what we are saying: the relocation of the primary sector. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I think the best things are ahead of us. We have to tell people the truth. That's what we went through, at least over the years. And we have to tell them what waits for them if the New Democracy comes out. And lastly, about the main occupation of farmers, they have always been talking about, they have paid - I think, if I am not mistaken - 50 million, with the latest information we have. With them in the government, we will have a huge increase in the taxation of small and medium-sized farmers and, of course, big farmers, because the rate, 9%, you understand, helps very large incomes. But it is up to us to tell the truth as we know it and we have nothing to fear for anyone. I want to say hello to you all. It's a difficult battle, which we'll give as we know. My sixty-five happened to be a MP. Again with races, forward, for a new Greece. And we're all going together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. Now I'm going to give the floor to the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. King, to support the number numbers. Amendment Nos 2235 and 2251. The word to you, Mr. King.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Amendment No 2235/196 concerns the Hellenic Defence Systems and enables tax and insurance information to be granted for an additional period of six months from 22 June 2019 to 22 December 2019 by way of derogation from any general and special provision to facilitate the participation in public procurement, works or supplies by the public sector, the further possibility of collecting money from the Greek State and the company's ability to operate in the next few months. The second amendment with two articles No 2251/212 concerns the Elefsina shipyards and the Scaramaga shipyards. With the proposed provision for the Scaramaga shipyards, we want to complete, that is to say, the necessary work and testing for the submarines 'Pine', 'Ocean', 'Matrozos' and 'Kosonis', so that they are assigned as soon as possible to the fleet for full operational operation. For Elefsina Shipyards in this context ratify the Convention of No.4361/2016, the tripartite agreement between the Hellenic Navy and the company and the employees for the completion of the construction and construction of the Russen torpedo. That's why the Navy took over the coordination of the project, the supply of materials and submarines. The above agreement ensured, on the one hand, the opportunity for the Navy to finally implement the project to build the torpedoes and, on the other hand, for workers to continue their employment in the midst of an economic crisis. I urge you to accept these amendments. It is for the continuation of the operation of the companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. King. Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis, Member of the Kavala from SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. I should like to take this opportunity to welcome the operation of President Mavrota, who, in my view, is a right to a political man of particular moral and political importance. It has been said that it is a little marginal on the last day of the House to take over the Presidency. However, I would appeal to the referendum: 'To the gar the last of them, each of them before they exist is judged'. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I then come to say that living politics is fascinating because it exists in this element of adventure. Adventure, according to Aristotle, is "the change against the events". It's the overthrow of the expected ones. That is what we had with the elections to the Members of the European Parliament. The government has waited for other results and has been reluctant - I would say - that this practice has been denounced on the table. So we have had a overthrow, but in life, as in politics, overthrows are a component of the power of social policy, of the power of politics, in this case. The elections to the European Parliament and the Members of Parliament were proactively brought to light the punishing criticism of a government that did what it did or did not do what the world wanted to do. Election coming in prosthetics is essential. It is an election of thought and thought, because it is better for the people in their vote to think about what the situation will be when - the unborn - there is the reorientation of a system which is borne by a number of millions, not those that are weak, but targeted and criminal political behaviours that have emerged since the early years of post-population and have culminated in our introduction to the vortex of monuments. Beyond this horror, there was the second horror of the management of the memoirs. These steps have been taken by both the PASOK government and the Government of New Democracy. And now they come to be presented as redeemers. "The eater and heals." He used it. How is it possible for the one who sprinkled the destruction also to be a procurer of healing? This schizophrenic situation must be perceived by the Greek people and by memory and crisis must deliver what must be attributed. If the government and SYRIZA were really defeated, it was mostly defeated in one sector, in the communication sector. It succeeded in the political, social, economic system - and not only the parties - to transfer all the burdens accumulated by itself, New Democracy and PASOK, the years of the Memorandum Liberation, to zero the short of the time and to say that the poverty, desertification of the country and society became and starts from January 2015 onwards. They're accusing us of lying. A lie has emerged, and it is exactly what hampers historical and social reality. Confiding the crisis and, above all, the instincts of social self-reservation of society, I call upon society, with absolute certainty that its political rationalisation always directs it in the right direction, to render political manoeuvre during the electoral process of 7 July. I'll say one last. They're accusing us of deindustrialization. I have here a position of the President of BSE from Kathimerini. In the seven years 2009-2015 of the major recession, the country's productive fabric was literally dismantled. Investments decreased by 62% with processing and industrial activity to pay the cost of the recession. It has a detailed list of dozens of businesses that closed in the works and the days of the success story of Samaras and his company. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Finally, because there is a thrilling charge, I would say that in the same sacred places we will again find ourselves again. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Emmanuelides. Mr Antoniou Christos, Member of the Imathia Parliament, has the floor with SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, it has only been nine months since August 2018, when our country and typically closed the cycle of the memorandum policies. Since 2010, the Greek people have lived hard for years. Most of the large social majority suffered dramatic changes in their lives. Two hundred and fifty thousand businesses closed only in the first four years, the memorandum. Let me remind you that unemployment was launched at 28%, that 1/4 of GDP was lost and a large social share was found to be within the limits of social exclusion. Our government, therefore, had first to stabilise this incredible social phenomenon, there being people looking for garbage to eat. So we had to save this world and save it, with a policy aimed at social recovery and stabilisation of these social strata. Perhaps with our policy we have a number of social strata which may have been a little more burdensome. However, this policy was a fair policy, a policy we had to go through, in order to gradually achieve - as we have reached today - a policy aimed at these social strata, particularly in the upper-medium-class, the upper-income, which paid a little more than it should have done. And precisely this policy, in the phase that we are implementing it today, has not yet developed as a whole, so that the results can be quickly shown in Greek households. It's a transitional phase that we have to go through. We've already been through it. We're in a recovery phase. For the ninth consecutive quarter our economy is growing at a rate of more than 2%, our budgets have come in order. There are times when the deficits were running at EUR 1 billion a month and which led us to these unregulated fiscal policies in the Memorandums and the launching of public debt. These Greek people must not forget them and they must not be forgotten. Who led him to social catastrophe, who led him to the memorials, who led him to this great adventure, which, fortunately, has ended for Greece. We are at the very stage of this policy, which is aimed at a large social majority, which we also want to express historically. We're the progressive pole. SYRIZA was also invited in the next elections to lead this pole and for the sake of these strata to give the election battle that is coming. We are optimistic and determined that the Greek people have a memory, have a crisis and will perceive the illusion of the extreme neoliberal paradise promised by the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis. We will also work to make all this more understandable in the world the days they come, until the elections. I have taken the floor above all to support, in my view, two very positive amendments. As far as tax reduction is concerned, I should like to remind you that, when we introduced it and voted on it at the request of the International Monetary Fund - at the closure of the third assessment, along with measures to cut the personal difference in pensions, at the time when we were fighting with the International Monetary Fund - a number of political parties that are not here today, said 'complete the assessment, close the evaluation, vote on what you are asking, because as long as the account is delayed, the account is increased'. We all remember that, I think, as the Greek people should remember. This was the contribution of Officer Response and KINAL. We are now in the phase that these measures can be taken back. It's time. It's fair. And it is happening with today's amendment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, an important amendment, which I would like to say a few things about, is the amendment for the Greek Sugar Industry, which deals with debt issues that the company has to the workers and our customs producers for the 2018 harvest. I think that the Greek Sugar Industry is a strategic business for our country, which in terms of both employment and GDP contribution and alternative farming to our farmers must remain alive. It must be sustainable. And we need to do everything we can to save this operation, which - to point out here - has been fragmented in previous years by miserable, client-type, policies of the previous governments, which have reached the edge of the disaster. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by apologizing to apologise to certain branches of workers because we have not been able to implement our commitments. I am referring to the contracted school-cleaning industry. Time did not allow us to restore their injustice in 2012, when they responded to the regime of heavy and unhealthy. It is something that time has not allowed us to do. We are making the promise that after the elections, and in any case in any situation, we will again be next to them in the struggle they are taking. Thank you very much and good luck to everyone, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Antonio. I shall now give the floor to Mr Pitsirla, Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, in order to develop Amendment No 2233. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is an amendment with two points. One is to extend the deadline for the completion of the investment projects under Law 3299/2004. These are investment projects, which have been afflicted too much because of the time of the crisis that we have been through. There is therefore a new extension until the end of 2019 for those projects that have implemented 50% and are now in the integration phase to complete them. The second point concerns arrangements for the Greek Sugar Industry, which this government received in a semi-resolution situation of EUR 225 million. After a great effort a definitive plan has been developed to rescue, reorganise and restructure the company in order to continue growing the beet in Greece and the production of sugar. This plan has already been submitted in accordance with Article 106 of the Financial Code. He's been filed and avenged in the next few days. There has been a binding proposal and an investor, which will help enrich this project, which has already been tabled. We are therefore in the face of the final resolution of the problem. In view of this proposal for a final solution to the problem, we must face up to the social consequences of this complete restructuring of the company. There are debts to the customs producers since 2018 and a small part of 2017 and there are debts to the workers, not paid. On these two issues we are proposing that the House vote on the possibility of aid to the company, in order to address precisely the social consequences of implementing the company's rescue and restructuring plan. There is also a legislative improvement at this point in relation to customs producers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the It was only in 2018 and is added ‘and in 2017’. We think it is a regulation that solves a social problem and of course starts to solve a major problem of a large industry in the country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u91	Mr Petropoulos, State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on Amendment No 2252 for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. This is the amendment concerning the regulation of supplementary pension payments after eighteen months to the pensioners of the subsidiary of the National Bank. It is a problem that was created by the division of insured persons at the national level in 2005, when the new insured persons began to subscribe to the ancillary public insurance system and the old were left to the private body of LEPETE, which existed and operated within the National Bank with the guarantees of the original injurious commitment that the National Bank had. It is an issue that we have talked about on several occasions here, in response to in-depth questions put by Members of the Change Movement in particular. These questions were frequent and we had answered them in detail and I thought there was indeed an agreement to resolve the matter. At least this was expressed by the collective representation of workers representing this political aspect in the workplace. Today I am amazed to hear that Mr Loverdos, Mrs Christophilopoulou, who has said that these are things that will not be tolerated. I do not know if at the end of the day they refuse to vote, but it is about sixteen thousand or five hundred insured, who have not been retired for eighteen months. It is a huge responsibility for the previous governments, which have allowed things to go in such a way that surely it would lead to this result, that people could not get their pension at some point. It is what we have repeatedly demonstrated and proved it, and the reality no longer, so that what the New Democracy promises to bring to the country, a split once again for the people insured in the subsidiary system of the country, as you have heard that all the young people insured from now on will go to private insurance institutions and the old will remain in the Single Insurance Fund, i.e. the public system. If that happens, proven any more - because life has proved it, there is no need for analyses - the future members of the public supplementary pension scheme will remain without supplementary pension, as was the case with the National Bank, which we are currently resolving. To be understood, we do not intervene to abolish workers' rights. The provision clearly defines our competence as a responsible government, which under the Constitution and the laws in force we must ensure that this insurance is granted. We are intervening through the public supplementary pension scheme to be paid by increased calculation and better provision of supplementary pensions to these workers, who have indeed received higher supplementary pension benefits, but by another system, with the rules of LEITE, the National Bank's Subsidiary Insurance Account. This is already in place and is pending as a matter for the courts, and we are not in any way interfering with the trials that have been opened. The courts will decide and, if they truly thrive on the appeals in question, the bank will obviously be called upon to fulfil the relevant obligations to be imposed by the court. What we do is retroactively give the benefits that these people had lost, which many of them couldn't survive, they had a huge problem, a real problem of survival and we can't leave it like that. It is a process that has lasted too many months of constant consultations. If you look at the Minutes of Parliament, you will see that since 2018 we have been constantly having the same formulation of political proposals from the government, to respect the negotiation process between the two parties. It is a practice that the International Labour Office had submitted such a recommendation to the Greek Government ever since. The old PASOK and the New Democracy governments had to take steps to resolve this issue, which unfortunately did not happen and which also broke this problem in our hands. Because we want to manage this issue responsibly, we do not escape this responsibility and we are currently introducing this provision in order to resolve it, because we have no confidence in leaving this thing for future regulation. We must take responsibility for solving this problem. The National Bank is charged annually with 40 million in excess of what the law provides for is to be paid. Everyone who has been in the pensioner's position will receive an increased pension according to the first type in the explanatory statement. It is the type applicable to the EIF, but with increased benefit, because it is calculated with 9% rather than 6%, which is for other insured persons. This is because the employees and their employer paid a higher contribution for the supplementary pension of the LEITE. For those who submit from now on, future pensioners, the press is also different, because since January 2015 the NTC rule applies, a mixed system, because this also applies to the EIB. This does not mean that the provisions of the LEITE are abolished. If the court restores the operation of the LEITE with the obligation of the National Bank to pay the several ten million that it has to pay, it will now have another development. They will be regulated in the manner laid down in the statutes of LEITE. I'm ending up...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u93	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u94	I conclude and call for the parliamentary groups to come in support of this need because it is not possible for people to stay without pensions because it is unfortunately the practice of the past that has been condemned to do so and this Parliament cannot be excluded from this responsibility. We did everything, we consulted both with workers and with their associations. This is a result of a long effort, which must be crowned with the result of unanimity of all the wings, otherwise no one can judge who cares and who does not care to solve problems. It's not problems we've created, it's problems we've solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Petropoulou. Mr George Ursouzidis, MP of Imathia by SYRIZA, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is the last day before the elections were called. I have the honour to close the procedure as I am the last speaker. I would therefore like to thank all my fellow Members who, throughout the time I have had the honour of representing my special homeland here, have criticised and tried to improve us in the actions and initiatives we have taken. I have a feeling we served in a fair way. It is well-known that we have received our homeland bankrupt and managed in four years to complete a course that brought to August 2018 and effectively abolish the Memorandum Policy, and what that meant to the citizens. Of course, the citizens, and in particular the free trade, are extremely struggling with this effort. I want to thank them for that. However, in the crew of time, when we could just adopt relief measures for these people who have really killed, the issue of elections came up. Elections now or September? Obviously, the Prime Minister has chosen, after the result of the European elections, to have the elections on 7 July. I would like to believe that the people who have been studying everything that has been going through as legislation from the Greek Parliament over the last four years and who have the crisis will understand that our aim has been to serve citizens in a fair manner and to favour those vulnerable social groups that really needed it. From this position I should like to thank the two ministers to the Ministry of Health who have actually managed to open the doors of hospitals, so that the public can enjoy the good of public health. Constitutionally, if the Treaties allow it, it will be guaranteed by the next parliament. I would also like to thank the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for its key contributions to issues relating to the favor of vulnerable social groups. I had the honour of serving as a municipal councillor in the Municipality of Veria that part of what concerns the LEADER, that is, people with disabilities, and then they had helped to contribute in specific ways that we proposed and actually helped this sensitive social group. So now they come and donate to the Greek state two planes fully equipped and the repair of two helicopters, so that the locusts can allow the people on the front of the coastal zone to enjoy - the self-evident ones I would say, but something that was not in any way obvious in 2014 - to provide health, that is, Kastelorizo, Samothraki, all the small islands of the Aegean can have the hope that someone can reach them in time and provide them with the good of health. At the same time, I have to refer to the two amendments. Mr. Pitsirlas is here, who has already referred to the Greek Sugar Industry. It solves an issue that would really be too unfair to people who have delivered their crop and tom toil to be unable to enjoy their reward. The same applies, of course, to workers. A new front is opened with a new investor and I hope that the crop can be saved, so that farmers who have invested in too expensive machinery to keep this crop simple and to eliminate the phenomenon of monoculture, which would only have unpleasant consequences. The abolition of duty is the other amendment, it is self-evident, which when we said here and Mr Tsakalots introduced the countermeasures, some people were mocking us, saying that we are not taking countermeasures, that we are lying. It is precisely the construction of measures that today gives this government the right to lift the unfair measure, I would say, of reducing duty, which ultimately concerns people who really need it. In closing my speech, I can only thank the people who supported this government on the big issue of our national issue, the Macedonian issue, which has been solved, and in particular, Mr President, I thank the Potami and you personally for your attitude, of course Spyros Dannelis and all those people who ignored the political cost and supported what the conditions have allowed us to achieve and achieved it at 100%. Macedonia, now, is only the ancient Greek Macedonia as well. All the others relate to geographical definitions and something very different from what we all understand: ancient, ancient Greek culture, ancient Greek Macedonia, Philip, Alexander the Great and all that. It takes a little more time to take, the Greek citizens will understand it and they will actually deliver Caesar Caesar's Caesari. I want to thank my fellow citizens for sending me to this Chamber. I tried to respect the space, always having in mind people who served, great personalities. In particular, however, I would like to refer to a fellow citizen of mine, George Snowidis, a Member of the Association of Centres, who has indeed served in an extremely honest and moral manner, I would say from the seat of this Parliament. I want to thank the people who supported me in this effort, my family, my parents, my friends. And I want to tell them that coming back, if I am not re-elected in the 7th of July, I will be able to look into them in the eyes, we have served in an honest manner. I repeat, perhaps, we did not notice the free professionals as they should, but this was objectively too difficult. When the conditions were created for this, unfortunately the results of the European elections emerged, which we had to respect and respect. I would like to congratulate the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, on the clarification today in terms of recruitment and those issues with which many media have bombed the Greek people, and the attitude of the Prime Minister, who has made it clear in the clearest way - I would say - the issue. I just want to mention one issue. All these recruitments are thirty-two or sixty, only for the partners of Kyriakos Mitsotakis when he was Minister. He had fifty-two. And it was not a wage of EUR 1,150 or EUR 1,300, but it involved much more money, such as EUR 18,000 monthly compensation. To close - and because I want to close in a way that suits kind conduct - I would like to thank all my colleagues once again, who each of them tried to tell their truth. And it is true that the national poet has designated it as national that it is true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ursuzides. The last speech from the list Mr Panayota Kozobol, Member of the Messinia, is given by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, too, for giving me the Step and off-list. I'll only employ the National Representation for five minutes. I felt the need to take the floor after everything that was published today on the recruitment of civil servants in the House and for that in general the anthropophagia and the murder of characters. And I say that I felt the need to speak as a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and as rapporteur for its decisions in plenary. The specific issues - which are now also falsely disseminated primarily - fall within the second part of the House's Rules of Procedure. Here I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that since the first meeting of this committee, since October 2015, we have decided to amend and codify both parts of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, both the parliamentary and the second part concerning the management of human resources and the general functioning of the House. We did this slowly in a consensual manner as a rule. We've modified and codified. We have to present a project that is really gigantic. And it's not just quantitative, it's qualitative. Because the scattered provisions, found everywhere and nowhere, are now encoded and transparently operating all the services of the House, the crises, the transfers, the movements of officials. In this context in December 2018, on a proposal from an experienced parliamentary, Mr Tragakis, - I will also say his name - but also from the complaints that the committee had with the officials' associations, it was decided and put in plenary. The plenary decision, taken at its meeting in February 2019, was for the officials of the Parliament to be subject to the moving system of Law 4440/2016. That law already works. It is implemented successfully. There was this anachronistic regime, which, for one move from one service to the other in the public sector, had to be five or seven years, with a hundred ministries getting involved and which might never have been done unless someone had the opportunity to do so side by side. This healthy mobility system has also been incorporated by the employees of the Parliament. That's what this is about. This is not a question of new recruitments, of rosé posts or of an orgy - which says a newspaper and I saw it this morning - which is being held in Parliament at the last minute. In fact, the predominance of specific factions is - and I will say this directly - the New Democracy and others, all who plead on it, it is very unfair to murder characters, to denounce all the work that has been done in the Rules of Procedure of this House. Because - and I say this again - these interventions were designed to eliminate the chaotic and cloudy regimes which existed and to system the rules of the Parliament's internal functioning in a transparent manner, so that control could be possible and there would be no complaints and there would be no room for either the House or the officials to be dispersed. These phenomena have taken great proportions, affecting righteous and unrighteous. In this context, I mentioned exactly what happened. I would also like to present the Government's Official Journal Sheet, in which the decision taken in plenary in February 2018 was published. I would like to repeat that this is not a question of recruitment. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Panayota Kozobol - Amanatidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am not going to make any reference, because I am not allowed to have time, and I promised to speak only for a short time, in what this period has done, because I would really be unfair to what this presidency has done. It's known, I think, and it looks. Let the President-in-Office allow me to say just one word, to go to the second point, on the amendment to reduce tax. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, how this decision was taken. At the close of the second assessment, in this context, creditors were requested and finally, in order to close the second assessment, it was decided to reduce pensions from 1-1-2019 and tax-free from 1-1-2020. How has this measure been agreed? Between our country and the lenders. Why was it imposed? For certain reasons, in order to close the second assessment, because of these cuts that I mentioned above, budgetary revenue would be generated to cover the country's liabilities in accordance with the loan contract. So it's understandable. The country's finances have been better and so it has been possible, in agreement with creditors, because it is an agreed and legislated project, not to implement the pension cut. Then, in order to follow the second one, namely not to apply the 2020 cut, between whom should it be agreed? Among those agreed and decided, that is, between our country and the lenders. To do this, the country's economy, of course, should be the financial data, and the financial space should be such as to allow it. So, first of all, it comes here with an amendment from KINAL and it says 'the gentlemen, here you vote on this measure'. Then Mr Mitsotakis comes with a similar amendment. They bring it here, they bring it to the committees. I'm sorry, if that's not hypocrisy and theatrical, then what is it, ladies and gentlemen? Why can the Greek Parliament unilaterally agree to something that has been agreed and signed by others, by third parties, not even the House there, cast a stop to leaving the agreed ones? All those who speak of excellence, of respecting the agreeds, what exactly do they say to us? It is therefore time and opportunity - due to the good economy in the country - to be able to overturn this. Everyone today has exulted the tax-free cut, but we are being renounced because we did not do so when they brought it to the vote. We're not going to endure these performances and hypocrisy. When the country is not in danger and indeed its budgetary matters are moving in complete security, then it will move on, as it is going today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of thirty-five students and students and four educational attendants from the 6th Municipal School of Agrinio. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Parliament, Mr Stavros Theodorakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, as you have already been informed, Potami does not come down to the next national election, and I will obviously not be in the next House. As I said, moving to another party boat or better mosquito in my worthy system is equivalent to treason. Mascaraki is the word they use in my village for those who always have an excuse not to do what they are committed to, to trespass their word. Well, masks in my life don't fit. I leave this House and resign from the leadership of the movement that I have set up, taking responsibility for defeat in the European elections. My mistakes are known to those who we have been through five years together, with my commitment to our original commitment to making a policy without the revolvering politicians and then delusion, in particular my own delusion, that we can create a new movement that is co-operating with old parties and with old powers. But today I would like to answer some questions that some maintain in public dialogue: what is the role of Potami, what has been offered and what are its differences from the rest of the political system? The river was created to change everything without tearing down the country. That was our first inspired slogan. Rarely in the Greek political scene, so many great thinking citizens have been involved in an effort, in a movement with a little influence on the masses - the last polls have said - but this is not always the major in evolution, politics and progress. Minorities are the ones that give the spark to change the world. So you changed the world? Apparently, no. But a few things were done and, above all, we proved it was done. For the first time a political non-professional movement survived three elections without imitating the way in which classical regimes were organized and lent. We didn't match up with guilds and interests. We have invented a riveric political morality: we have differently defined the mistake and the right in politics and crashed with every core of populism and conservatism. For all others, for most others, to avoid overreacting, the prevalence of their party passes through the reproduction of the same failed model: party statism and battles only for the shelves, for the chairs, for the spoon. Ladies and gentlemen, the country, on the occasion of the crisis and in an effort to approach the modern world and under the look and many times the commands of Europe, has been relieved of a part of the rust that has become part of the joints of society, the economy and the public. It wasn't SYRIZA's decisions. They were conquests of the time, legal obligations of the government and normally, I would say, both of the previous government and of the former government. I am not going to make a list of the changes that have been achieved today because the river was here, in this Chamber. They're known and discussed. But, you know, the most foreign to me from the first day I entered the House until today was and remains the one who wants the politician to have a téf and every night to record profits. Where in normal life people wonder 'right or wrong, fair or unfair, feasible or impossible', in the corridors of politics, do you hear 'it is no good to us'. The proposals made are not weighed on the basis of their offer to society and the future of the country, but on the basis of the electoral balance of the moment, what gives us votes, what takes us off votes. These mountains from small and large interests have muddled and sinked Greece. The river did not participate in this competition. He was born of society to say that Greece has no more time. There's no time for postponements, there's no time for barren clashes, there's no time for ideologies. SYRIZA was our great rival when we appeared together with all the extreme forces of the indignant nationalists who were then united. And from the outset, we have been fought, until now, by all those who see society shredded in partisan honors. But we, despite the pressure, when from the left regime, when from the right-wing regime did not sacrifice our independence, did not chew our words, we did not cowardle and we did not retreat. Potami, ignoring the political cost, tried to absorb from politics what was useful, to fly what was useless and to add some things that only it could. Society, ladies and gentlemen, needs politicians, researchers, arrogant, bold and reformists. The statements in the last days of anti-Population - and the Officerial Representation of course - that they do not disagree with the Criminal Codes, on the contrary, but it is not necessary for them to stay in the House as well as to show them all the smallness of Greek politics, a smallness that has shown all its greatness and SYRIZA during the crisis and has become a government, a small one that is a political success stadium, yesterday, today, and I am afraid tomorrow. We also know this classic recipe of success, that people want white - black, that people don't see shades, that people want voices, that people want to flatter them. We know the recipe, but we don't follow it. We wanted to succeed in a different way. And that's it and it's always hard. So the codes - to return to the last plea - were a positive and necessary step, as Evangelos Venizelos said yesterday, who - be careful and allow me to make a little note - made his last speech to Parliament presently only one of the nineteen Members who had his party, one of the nineteen who applauded him until yesterday. Don't get caught in any pictures applauding the Chief's scapegoat! What a disgrace! However, the codes have already been passed and will apply from 1 July. Greece is closer to the modern concepts of European legal culture. It is a work of important legal significance of the act and of the theory collaborated under the presidency of important personalities of justice, such as Ioannis Manoledakis, Vassilis Markis, Christoforopoulos Argyropoulos. It is a feature of our maliciousness that this also imposed institutional reform almost crushed the party affiliations that keep our country in the past and misery. I am proud, therefore, of the last act of the River Parliamentary Group that has been left here in Parliament and voted for the codes. And I hold the enthusiastic positive comments of people, ministers of justice as a reserve. The contagious virus of the old-fashioned spoon "when others will do so, why should we be exposed?" He never offended the river. And that's what I want to know from everyone. We have demonstrated this from the legalisation of medicine cannabis until the accession of northern Macedonia to NATO. Four and a half years, each time they gave us one advice: "Hide and wait another time, another time, once all as magically will change." Dear Dinos Christianopoulos in his poem "I abandon poetry", says somewhere in the sixth, seventh verse "Do not blame me for convenience, that I did not dig deep...". That's what we tell friends, but also rivals these days of apologizing. We dug deep into the river, every day, every hour for each theme. The solutions, even simple solutions, in Greece after so many years of unquestionedness, are buried in great depth, like natural resources. I don't know, maybe some people are burning up that they're making it easy, having it all in their head. We have, however, been very trained for every proposal, for every post, for every vote, for every speech, almost every announcement. We've been depleting every day the search limits. And I want to send a message to the eighty-six thousand citizens who voted in the European elections. I ask them not to lose what made them a river. I ask them to be proud of what we have achieved, honesty, correctness, truth. The country has a critical period ahead of it. After the elections, brave decisions must be taken quickly to allow the development of the economy. We must stop shading with ghosts and take the necessary reform decisions that the place needs. Young people must be the priority, push them to take key positions in political life, in society, everywhere. "There is a deep reason for justice that requires the rule of society by young people," said Stavros Tsakirakis. Those who have before them most of their lives are fair to be able to define their fate. Well, first of all, young people. Outside the parties from the public, the universities, justice. It is worthy and not party assignments and party promotions. What happens in the last hours of government again around the state, again around public money, is turning the country back for many years. But I continue for the priorities. Young people first. Outside the parties. In front of the environment, not to hand over chaos to our children. Yes, in diversity, because the right of one is worthy of a modern liberal society. And finally, an open economy without overtaxation and bureaucracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks can do so, as long as we remove obstacles from our roads and paths, as long as the party state, party administration, the party authority leave a little room for real politics, for real politics. The purpose of life, he says, is to be defeated by ever bigger things. So I say goodbye to the House politically defeated, humanly sad, but ultimately proud of the supply of the Potamius to society and homeland and hopeful that the seed we have thrown will grow again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis. Now I give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Paulo Polakis, for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. It was touching to close the previous speaker. I have to acknowledge that, despite the fact that we have conflicted very strongly with Mr Theodorakis, because we represent different ideological perceptions, the recognition on the part of the defeat of his party and the departure of his party is a political courage, which we must recognise. And I insist, despite the differences and the intense conflicts we have had during these three - four years in Parliament's procedures and beyond. I want to reintroduce the debate to the essence of today's bill. So I will respond to a series of things that have been heard here today, trying to blur the image, history and all the work that has been done in recent years by the government here in circumstances of hardship, bankruptcy management and a memorandum. I am proud that after four years of the last session of this House today, the last bill is a bill concerning the health sector and ratifying two pieces of a donation, for which - I recall - a few days ago had become a panic in the media. They said that the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is being cancelled. I do not know if you remember, ladies and gentlemen, starting from the well-known 'the theme' and reproducing in avalanche from the rest, they said that the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is being cancelled on the occasion of a sub-section of the donation sub-section, which involved an educational programme for hospital infections, for which, because something is being done at the same time from the former CEDEFOP - now EIA - there is still a negotiation on what form it will take. This is a sum of EUR 3 to EUR 5 million in a 300 donation total. What went through outside, though? That donation is being cancelled, to try to hit our government at that level too. Today, then, we are dominating two important parts - these are the specific contracts - of their donation to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. I would remind you again, because this has not even seen the lights of publicity, that a particular first section on the renewal of equipment at the Evangelism Hospital of EUR 8.5 million has been ratified a while ago. Nowadays, then, we are dominating two tracks of EKAB aerospace, EKAB's volcanic means and the piece of positron emission tomographs and cyclotrones entering hospitals. With the first part, the first contract number V, it is agreed that two planes of aerospace will be purchased, which will replace the C -27 and C -130, which we use today and which the Air Force - and thanks the entire Greek society for this - will offer a faster and cheaper and equally safe flight to transport the heavyly suffering from all the islands of the country. At the same time, it was agreed and will be repaired to the installations of the National Air Industry, the two of the three helicopters of the EKA, for which I recall that when purchased, maintenance contracts were not signed. Three fell, three more completed the hours - one with a more serious harm - and there were no maintenance contracts. So far, on the issue of EKAB, we have strengthened the operating budget which has practically doubled since its funding since 2016, plus EUR 13 million a year in double instalments, that is, 26 million, which we had to pay off towards the Air Force that they held since 1990 and thus strengthened its ability to operate the Aerospace and the waterways. The market and the replacement of half of the fleet, which we received practically dismantled, has already been made. They had to buy new ambulances long. He had seven hundred fifty. Three hundred and fifty have also been replaced or replaced without taking into account other things that we have found and exploited. Also, the base for aerospace was founded in Syros - a request from the Cycladics for over forty years - in conjunction with the base of the EKAB in Halkidiki, which operates three consecutive summers every Friday, Saturday, Sunday, in collaboration with the helicopter of the Firefighting. We have the recent opening of the airspace base in Aktio. The first incidents from Corfu to Yannina were taken from Zakynthos to Patras in a very short time compared to the one needed before the floats, the road, etc. It now covers and gives security to the Ionian Sea Islands, as well as to the mountain range of Pindos. We also have the other competition in progress - the technical tenders were opened and we proceed with the opening of the financial tenders - for the supply, in cooperation with the Ministry of Commerce, of three waterways stationed in Naxos, Leros and Rhodes. In combination with all of the above, we are completing a plan to cover the entire Greek area - both on land and on island - with reliable means, with safe terms and time-consuming response very high in meeting the needs of patients from the signs of injury or illness towards health formations. All this work that has been done, and the workers of the EKP know it, is also receiving it from society. At this point I would like to refer a reference to the murder of a character. There's a lot of things going on today. While all this has been done - I am not saying things that have not been done - at the same time what comes out in the media was that 'yes, in Rhodes at some point, we have moved someone into rural'. We buy ninety ambulances, but what comes out is that at some remote point it was an hour late for the ambulance to go because it was damaged or there was no driver's shift. We didn't say we solved everything. We'll solve everything in the next four years. I mean it, and I mean it. But what we received in January 2015 has nothing to do with what we have already built - and we are planning and all of what I'm saying - June 2019. We also use the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. There is a great difference here, and I have to make a parentheses and remind you of some things that I consider to be my duty to remind you of. The original proposal from the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation was to give 200m euros to rebuild the "Evangelism". That was the original proposal. It had been a process before we took over, but it didn't go any further. This proposal has come to us. We said then as the Ministry's political leadership that we do not need that. On the basis of our public health rescheduling plan we have drawn up, what we need and which will act in addition to and enhance all our interventions were: Paediatric Hospital in Thessaloniki, a new hospital in Komotini, which is the oldest of the country, intervention in EKAV, intervention in equipment, intervention in "Evangelism", intervention in educational programmes. And they accepted it. We have also worked at the level of donations, complementing and strengthening, in relation to the project that we have been implementing. And I'm saying this to remind you of these, because they didn't see the light of publicity the way they should. So in the second part, which concerns positron emission tomographers - which are concerned with an examination that is currently very helpful to both the diagnosis and the design of the healing treatment of patients suffering from malignancy - the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation acts in addition to what we are already implementing through the public investment programme and the Attica region's money in terms of Lefkanopde. We essentially complete and provide universal coverage with Alexandroupolis Hospital, University in Heraklion, the University in Yannina, the University in Larissa, where we place positron broadcasters following the placement and start of operation in Metataxas, the placement and start of operation at the "The Hague", the market in new at the General Oncology Hospital of Kifisia "The Saints Anargyroi". In fact, we give a global coverage of the patient's ability to do this examination within the public health system. And, at the same time, we are doing another great step forward in supporting the intervention we are already doing with the market, through the competition of the Attica Region, which we agreed with Rena Douros, the General Oncology Hospital of Kifisia and the "Metaxas" and the placement of two cyclotrons of radiopharmaceutical production. With the donation of the Niarche Foundation, we put cyclotronies in Heraklion and Larissa and Yannina and the Papageorgiou Hospital, which has been pet scan for years, so that we can depend on the monopolistic situation in which we live these years, because there is only one company in Greece that produces radiopharmaceuticals, which sells us and we are forced to buy it at a very high price, compared to what is happening in other European countries. There was an attempt to negotiate. Now that he sees these coming in, he already starts and makes discounts, because he thought we would not proceed to this supply either from our own money or from the donation money. So this is what we are beginning to do today. I would like to refer here and say this. It has also been heard during the committee, as well as in general by the media and our political opponents, that, fortunately, it says that there are donations and that the health system is saved, in an attempt to distort the reality and devaluation of what has been done in the past four years, when we received a system practically ready to collapse. So today I am announcing this step - and I have told the committee too - but I think I have to repeat it, because it breaks the silence wall that has been imposed by the overwhelming majority of SMEs - that this government, while managing a memorandum, has managed a bankruptcy, while it has ruled with the suffocating napkin of creditors over its head, has made a clear political choice that has been translated into specific things as regards the renewal of the equipment of the public health system throughout the country and the upgrading of its hotel infrastructure. And I'm saying it in particular. There is a code hidden from the Ministry of Health's reserve from which in previous years studies were carried out, only one payment was made. Listen! The Ministry of Health's reserve to pay one-off instead of the Ministry of Finance - you understand why - or to pay some court decisions. From this code we have already given 30m euros by 2018 and this year must be between 5.5 to 6m, all funding in hospitals and health centers in the country for upgrading equipment or upgrading hotel infrastructure. We have given from the Public Investment Programme - not the NRP, but national resources - of the Ministry of Health 40m euros in previous years and with new projects this year another EUR 4.5m, which both relate to the replacement of pet scan in the 'Evangelism', as we say, which is all complementary. We have given - and the tender has been carried out - the 40 million equipment in all hospitals in Attica plus twenty in military hospitals, 60 million euros from this intervention. We have implemented all the competitions and many have been purchased, the 35m euros left over from the 2014-2020 NSRP that were for new projects, because all the others were transferable projects from the previous period that had not been finished, the thirty-three percent. I am not counting these hundreds of thirty because they have been integrated from the previous period, now being implemented, many hospitals are now running out of them. However, the new projects are thirty-five and are implemented everywhere. From there, let's say, it's a piece of the ambulances. We are implementing and are already procuring competitions in many hospitals from the 'SIEMENS' compensatory amounts, the piece concerning the health sector, EUR 23 million. And also - something that was completely hidden and not accidentally - from the surplus of 2018 - we did not only give a solidarity allowance and all we said, but we also gave EUR 23.5 million to five hospitals in the country, the four oncological -7 million to San Savva, EUR 5 million to 'Metataxa', EUR 5 million to 'GONK', EUR 5 million to 'Families' and EUR 1.5 million to 'Laiko' - for specific equipment that was not part of the previous interventions we have made. This was done by decision of the Ministry of Finance after our own agreement to grant this from the surplus, I repeat, in 2018. We also made use of the 3.5m euros of the 2009 anticancer fundraiser, where the first 4-5m euros Abrahamus had done - supposedly - studying the neoplasm file, an EXCELaki that cost us 1,5m euros, plus a correspondingly subsidized by the ESRB and something like that. All of these 3.5m euros were made machinery for oncology hospitals. All of this amounts to about 220-230m euros. Of course, I don't forget the competition that was completed for the nineteen CTs that made him "Sismanoglio". Through EOPY's revenues, the contest has been awarded to nineteen hospitals in the country, from Imathia to Sitia, where these axiaries are purchased. Implementing contracts for their location are already signed and will be repaid by the revenue that the hospitals now receive from the EEAS. So all this, which is about EUR 230 million, was given with a political choice from the government. Here, let me put a dilemma. Mr. Mitsotakis recently said: “Why buy high-tech equipment in hospitals? We can rent this equipment from private individuals or because the public is not functional - as if we were running this public forty years and it didn't work - 'we can put them in as managers, they can work, we can give them the staff'. I mean, they don't have any labour costs. Thatcher pale in front of this arrest. They'll be assured of clienteleship by the insured of the EOGY and they'll be colluded because they're handsome. It is therefore in the hands of the Greek people to choose, on 7 July, whether all that has been implemented or implemented is being given to the north - I say that - together with the workers in private and large diagnostic chains in the health field, which are obviously ready and informed to make a deal of construction in the area of public hospitals. It is in the hands of the Greek people to choose. We will work with the system workers. We increase its capacity, we can meet much more health needs of patients by completing this placement. We'll work it out with the system workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u103	Finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u104	Do you know why the appetite was opened and why this proposal was made? There's a very simple reason. Because EEAY in 2014 gave 80 million euros to public hospitals and health centers in the country. In 2018 he came to give 670m euros. A large part of this amount is due to the examinations that the system does and is paid by the EEA. Evidently this thing, this huge increase in the liquidity of the public system has opened up the appetite in too many rodents, which in previous years have done corresponding jobs in the private sector, that "we must put our hands and legs there too, because here is a roast and we must eat it." We also made a huge effort, and right now the ball is at Piraeus Bank. I have to say that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u105	Shall we hang up with this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u106	Almost. There's something else I want to say. We made a huge effort with Henry Dunan, which others gave through graceful arrangements to Piraeus Bank and is a private Piraeus Bank activity clinic and we and based on the results of the Committee of Inquiry we get it back. We have made a proposal in cooperation with the Onassis Foundation, and at the moment the bank is playing late, it cannot say 'no'. He can't say 'no'! Because, in fact, if it says no to the proposal we have made, its shareholders should be chased because it is infinitely the best proposal that has been put forward by anyone else who has offered the system. However, obviously its administration is also pressed by the New Democracy or by others, it does not go ahead with the implementation of the Convention. There is a complete plan on how 'Dynnan' will be incorporated into the 'Ononunion', as a separate clinic, with the protection of workers' rights, which we have already safeguarded in the bill that we voted on for the ratification of the Transmissible Center, and for the workers of the Onasios. So it doesn't go any further. These elections will judge a great deal, they will judge too much. And they will judge, especially in the health field, whether we will continue to work towards raising, completing, improving the public health system, which was supported by nineteen and a half thousands of staff, supported by procedures which no one can say anything, supported by funding for 400 million more increase in the cost limit, strengthened by the EEA - I said before - was strengthened by these equipment. We supported the hundred-five-five-five-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four, despite the rabies war we've had. The elections will therefore judge whether this effort will continue or whether this effort will come back by conferring parts of the function of the balanced system now in a private sector to be badly carved, undermining labour rights again. Because here's very simple things. In seventy - seven hospitals we have kicked out contractors. And after the judgment of the European Court of Justice and the Court of Justice. There has been a start on the process for the rest. And this has to do with an amendment that I will support by ending my speech, because it is obvious that the desire for too many to continue this customer system and the misadorico that cost us 'the couch night'. In the "Evangelism" of the 4.5 million that we gave year to the cleaning contractor, we now give 2.5 million, while the workers and workers there receive more than 200 to 300 euros in the pocket. With the 2.5 million they get 250 to 300 euros more in the pocket and give 4.5 million. You understand the party that's been going on. That's what's gonna get into danger. These are the things that need to be understood, beyond the dust and ormad that was also with the recent one, so that one can say something about Timing. 'Cause from what I understand here, an orchestra got up for this, right? I don't get any setbacks. I will only say one thing, I won't get any setbacks. There was a Timing theme that I understand. Their proposal was for mobility. If I understood correctly from what I read, Mr Javarras had said that we need to move forward and resolve a matter that has been in existence for many years. But, of course, at the same time, we had the passion and the fountain of these media, who found another occasion to hit SYRIZA and break that history of moral advantage. How much did it get out of the surface, how much did it show that two felony prosecutions were being persecuted for manifestly illegal recruitment? And I'm talking about the CEDEFOP and the appointments of Adonis Georgiadis. Prosecutors of a malicious nature have been persecuted in the gang of CEDEFOP in there. Of course - and this is what I will close before I say the amendment - there is this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u107	Shall we go to the amendment too?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u108	There's this. If the Greek people want us to go back to the situation in which the media, while these happen, are going to melt the government, do you know what it means? It means that these four years we from CEDEFOP and the hospitals in the media, both there and there, have cut off EUR 130 million. So is the estimated amount of advertising expenditure that they would get from the health sector, for air cut off, for banners, for records, for things they should show for free and never display. That's why I targeted myself, because we put our hand in the gutter and we cleaned him up, because these 130 million we made transplants that we paid for, we made equipment, we did other things, because we made that promise to the Greek people when we took over in 2015 and when we compromised Julis. We have made a promise that we will keep society up by supporting the social state - and we have supported it - but to support the social state, you need to hit the corrupt system and say things with their name, because the style can be intense, but morality is crystal clear and says what it needs to be. Not to think that by mocking or talking more mildly to the corrupt ones, they are to be treated accordingly. No one thinks that. The bad guy wants worse. It can't be done any other way. I think this is a very big conclusion that has come out, which is why we have been targeted. If the Greek people want EUR 130 million to go to advertising expenditure on existing and nonexistent sites, it is also a dilemma on 7 July.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Pollack, you've been talking for twenty-seven-and-a-half minutes. Let's go to the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, I know that I have been abusive in time, but my speech also has a form of accountability.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u111	I get it. It is of the character of a final meeting. Just pass on to the amendment, because they're waiting...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u112	You know, I'm happy to close with the Ministry of Health bill, because we've had great legislative production, and we need some things, which unfortunately we can't get through the media, because we don't feed them with advertising expenditure, at least we can talk about them from the Step of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u113	That's why I gave you more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u114	I know, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u115	Let's go to the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u116	I felt the need to respond to some things and say another word. There's a big bet and it's a bet next four years. All the amendments solve problems. They are neither charismatic nor negotiative. All the amendments solve serious social problems. Others did not come down when, in my opinion, they should. What's the matter? That the big bet, for which New Democracy, KINAAL etc. are making this trouble today, is that a number of things, such as the things that are coming here today - and that the ministers will be accepted - are due to a functioning of a state mechanism, which in previous years was clearly opposite, and that is what we must first draw as a conclusion. He was clearly across the street. Mr Kaisha said a few things. It is not possible to go ahead with an amendment, for the officials to delay it two and three and six and eight months. That is what happened, so the conversation should not be moved there. The conversation that SYRIZA has to have - and it will also take pre-election - is not what they say about Maduro, etc. and all those make news and vulgar things they do. Talk is this: What does the state mean for the Left? How does it work? Is it possible with a state structured forty years, either in the client system or in corruption and in the paradox, to implement a left-hand political plan if you do not make active and direct intervention? I understand that a bankrupt can't do it, but the central state is to do four jobs, not what it does today. 80% of the ministries' work is to prepare things and bring us to sign things, which could be solved at much lower levels. The central state is to produce the plan, share the money, define the rules, give all this responsibility to the decentralized structures of the state, implement them and not to have the preventive control, which the Left used to say, but the annual final repressive control, so as to have the fear of keeping the deserts in all the decentralized structures. So the productive reconstruction will take place, so it will change and we wouldn't have all this conversation - not to say a bad word - in relation to'saving, doing, showing'. Because we managed a situation in which we had to play with this 'purpose', because we could not change the terms of the song. But we found out, we know, and we can change it. Only we can. Only the Left can, no one else can. It must be more decisive, however, to propose the plan, not to confuse with some who are naturally committed to the other band and thus move on. And that's a big message we make. I will say a word: if they have seven souls, we have nine lives, because we are getting power from the Greek people he understands. And it will understand and be the other criteria it will vote on on 7 July.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u117	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u118	I conclude with Amendment No 2247 and special number 208. Now they are starting to become too many contests of people who had signed contracts of employment in cleanliness, feeding and storage in many hospitals. These competitions will probably not be able to be completed until the day of the end of these people's term of office and some will end in the summer. So we are giving the opportunity to extend the mandate of the officials to the end of the competition, which has been opened by many, so that we do not have to bring back contractors, because their term of office is to expire. So the term of office of those who are already in office is extended. Also, because the term of office ends in the next period and many movements or secondments of staff made in hospitals, health centers - where needs exist and have been made by decisions of the relevant governors - in order not to cause problems of functioning in health structures - they will return to their place for people who need to be there, as they have moved or been seconded for family or other reasons, but basically for the purpose of the system - an extension of these movements up to 31-12-2019 is granted. Thank you very much, and you're all well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Polakis. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. It is inappropriate - and I will not do so - to place myself here for the current procedure and for the ratification of the donation. A procedure of insulting the JRC's opinion, because first of all it offends human dignity, not only with the various islands, but above all with the thanks that have been heard in this Chamber to the so-called 'national benefactors', which in time did nothing but return a little of the stolen parts of the stolen parts, that is, the ones stolen from the Greek people. You are rewarding them for their actions and saying to them and "thank you". How to characterize such an act for some who claim to be still left! Of course, the Minister did not remain in his long-term position in this sanction, but he referred to health issues as a whole. They don't need much to answer what he said. It is only the picture that exists in hospitals, with the continuous deterioration of the services provided - hospitals operating in suffocation - ready to collapse - by intensified capacity, nursing and medical, by the recycling of workers. From this point of view, as regards the amendment which it brings here to cleaners and others who have contracts of time, but also to other bodies that are prolonging this contract until competitions and other contracts, which are 'current', are precisely a deliberate attitude of the Government, which is playing with the needs of the workers. And that's why? It is precisely because it has no intention at all to stop and abolish the ganger of contracts for time and work, part-time work. On the contrary, it recycles it. And here in these competitions it's too clean. It was necessary for all of them, which work under contracts, to transform these contracts into contracts of indefinite duration. However, it does not do so, the government and indeed the moleculosis it gives is too small in relation to the pre-service they had. Therefore, it is not guaranteed that they will continue to work as cleaners, as guardians or in feeding, but instead blackmail them in this process, because it is precisely the challenge of playing with each worker's pain that today's government or those who played, when they refused the JRC's proposal to revise the Constitution, that is to say, abolish this shameful provision of the Constitution prohibiting the conversion of part-time contracts into an indefinite period. And this bears the signature of both SYRIZA and the New Democracy and PASOK, who have not accepted the concrete proposal of the JRC. And you did not accept it because you want the workers' hostage, to continue their hostage, to blackmail them, to break their dignity and to steal their vote, but also to tolerate their tolerance to an anti-popular policy. However, let us also see some other essential issues that are hidden from the debate and, more generally, from this pre-election period. I am talking about the evaluation report of the European Commission. This assessment report is particularly revealing, because it reveals precisely that the memorial and memorial laws are here. The fierce supervision on the part of lenders is here and the anti-grass commitments remain, regardless of the government composition that will emerge from the elections, because precisely the course followed by the new government is predetermined. This course is determined first of all by the needs of business groups. Competitiveness and profitability are the reason why the rights and lives of workers are being violated. She's the one who's forcefully deporting professionals and traders from the market. The government welcomes the progress made in growth and, on the other hand, in fair growth, on the other hand, the New Democracy is talking about sustainable growth and the launching of investment. But, look at a today's example. 'FRIGOGLASS', a multinational directly linked to 'COCA-COLA-3E', another multinational, which has a production activity on five continents, closed the only factory in Greece in the Netherlands Achaia. It was closed today, after a series of rival waves which it had unleashed to workers, reduced wages, reduced working hours, threats and extortion. Today he shut down the factory by flying ninety workers on the road. Is this your development, Mr. Ministers? Is that your development? We therefore had the closure of the FRIGOGLASS plant. Why did he turn it off? Because he doesn't have any profits? Not at all. Because he wants more profits, that's why he closed it. It is competition and profitability that closes the factories, which throw workers on the road and towards it, of course, no government can do anything, as the Minister of Finance cannot do, to protect workers, to ensure their jobs, because the businessman has them. "It is my business and what I like to do," he says, and at the same time blackmails and pressures governments to give it new advantages, new incentives, new legislative provisions for the existence of this working jungle that prevails. And then, as a matter of fact, the government is talking about recovering the work and the rights of workers. Will you go and tell the dismissals of FRIGOGLASS, Ministers, in terms of development and not of crisis? But where do you go and tell them? Secondly, which defines and defines the course of the next period is the need for budgetary discipline and for bloody primary surpluses, with the tomacle being broken over the backs and neck of our people, because he pays the bloody primary surpluses and will continue to pay them by 2060. What for? In order for debt to be sustainable, a State debt that is not responsible for and which should have been erased and which should have been unilaterally erased. What for? For there to be surpluses and to redistribute business groups through the various incentives you give them, fiscal and development. Because of the EUR 10 you are stealing from the worker and from the people, you are allegedly returning to him 1, with the various solidarity benefits, while the remaining 9 goes into the pockets of lenders, the pockets of merchants, shipowners and bankers. That is where you are sending them and steal them from the labour force of the people, the workers, the pensioners, the self-employed. Are you talking about social sensitivity and not interrupting this social sensitivity? Really, where does your social sensitivity come from? From the device you brought for the tax-free? You are showing great social sensitivity so that it does not fall! You show great social sensitivity and we must recognise this when you at the same time bring a provision that abolishes the positive countermeasures, because it has to be budgetaryly neutral! So choose from which location you want to lose. Are you going to lose from the tax reduction pocket or from the pocket of not reducing the rate of taxation for natural persons from 22% to 20% or from the discount that they will give you to HNVIA or from the abolition of the social solidarity contribution? Choose which location you want to lose. Which pocket you want to lose, that's what you tell him. And it is a provocative thing to do, because it is precisely because public finances, budgetary discipline and the primary surpluses must continue to exist. We tell you, the JRC tells you very clearly: remove the remaining provisions of the so-called countermeasures and leave only the duty-free reduction. Do it, we challenge you here, and we vote if you do it. But you are withdrawing from the amendment the so-called abolition of the countermeasures and not putting it together. Why don't you do that? That is why you confirm the refusal you gave 15 days ago to the JRC's amendment of 15 May, which merely provided for a reduction in duty and nothing else. That is why you then refused as government to accept the JRC's amendment, precisely because it would not be fiscally neutral, precisely because it would alleviate and relieve the populace. It is also a challenge with regard to the so-called social sensitivity of maintaining and not abolishing the various tax benefits, which you have given the large capital, to literally implement the countermeasures for business groups, such as the reduction of tax rates for legal persons. Does it really not affect the fiscal equilibrium in reducing the tax rates for legal persons? Or does the reduction in tax rates for distributed profits from 15% to 10% affect you and does it affect you from 22% to 20% for natural persons? Here's your social sensitivity what it is. That is precisely what it is, but through this tax policy you want to shield the competitiveness of business groups and in the face of this need you are fighting workers' tax burdens, pensioners and other people's strata. So - and I conclude, Mr President - we are saying something very simple, that the Greek people with the choices they make and in front of the polls should not choose what will lose and who will impose on them the mess, which will either have it a government of SYRIZA or a government of New Democracy or the various other willing ones who want to support such government choices, because it is precisely against him that it has a uniform design, the design dictated by the needs of business groups and lenders. And this unified design serves him faithfully all governments and all urban parties in here. This planning will also serve the next government. Therefore, against this anti-grass, class planning, there are people's needs. It's the JRC plan. That is why we say that the Communist Party of Greece must be strengthened, so that from better positions the Greek people after the elections can fight against anti-Fraud policy - whoever is elected government - can go to the counter-attack and claim not only the restoration of the losses, but above all the fulfilment of his current needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much Mr. Karathanasopoulos. And now I will give the floor to the Minister for Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, to present us with Amendments Nos 2234/195 and 2249/210. Can I give you five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u122	No, more. There has already been a lot of discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u123	These are two amendments. Here, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u124	I'm gonna need less than Mr. Polakis anyway!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u125	I've already cut time off from Mr. Blonde!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to Mr Karathanasopoulos. He said they would tell people not to vote and not to affect the least evil, who would cut the most. If the non-genus wins the New Democracy, it will be another huge mistake of the JRC. Because when the New Democracy programme is unfolding - and we do not need to speculate, we can see exactly what Mr Stournaras said about insurance, we can see exactly what they said about the energy tax in their announcement, we can see exactly what they said about 1 to 5 in terms of public administration, the public sector, that is to say, leaving five and coming one - all of our world and all of your world will suffer from it. Many times the JRC has made the mistake. Many times the Left has made the mistake. We're not in the conditions that neoliberalism is leading. Neoliberalism prevails, but everywhere it is vulnerable to the reaction of the people and the middle layers, who fear centre-right, how much more of the extreme right. And that is why we call on both the JRC and the voters or to press to change the line so that together we can face fear or not vote on you! Because it is very serious to say exactly what you have said to the dominance of neoliberalism. It's very serious! We don't have two programmes here which are the same - down. We have two controversy programmes with a clear ideological and social context. And so would I say for the people and supporters of KINAL. Mr. Venizelos left, but the line stayed the same. I ask the people who have voted for KINAL: can they really keep equal distances to a government that says that we need to have a balance between the social state and the reduction of taxation and a potential government, New Democracy, which only places emphasis on tax reductions, prepares the ground that this is where we are left with a burning land, we will have nothing, and tax evasions will be for ordinary suspects, in other words for elites? And do people who vote for KINAL - with all differences, discrepancies, criticisms that they could do for our own government - that this could be the same? Is it the same thing to support an alliance of progressive forces that can stop this tsunami coming to us by saying 'I don't care, will the people say what we are going to do'? Is that what KINAL's leadership says? So it's like Bartholomew has the people of religion to say if they're gonna be Muslims or Christians. Well, that's not how it works. The leadership cannot have that view. The leadership must say if it agrees with some things we have done since the summer of 2018. You're telling us we're hitting the middle class because we're saving the tax free, but at the same time we're taking the countermeasures. New Democracy says so. I must tell you that I was sad Mr. Karathanasopoulos also said so, because he is usually very careful about what he says and when he is in numbers. Because Mr. Karathanasopoulos knows, as I know, the countermeasures started in 2018. While they had voted for 2019 and 2020 since 2018, for child poverty and child benefit. And since 2019 much of the countermeasures have been done. So, your world and the world of KINAL, the "Help at Home", school meals, special education, there's not gonna be any teachers to help him? They don't care? Didn't we reduce in 2019 the social contributions that were in the 2020 countermeasures? Didn't we make any other changes, like the reduction in VAT? So what do we now have in this tax-free amendment? We started in 2017 with measures - countermeasures. Then you were all telling us, and from here and there, that they are Tsipra's fantasies, that they do not exist, that there are no countermeasures, just measures. We didn't reduce pensions. We won't reduce duty, and there are countermeasures. And not only are there countermeasures of 2019, this "pack" of Thessaloniki, but there are countermeasures to the "pack" we announced in Zappeion for 2020. There are some changes. We voted for the countermeasures in 2017 and now we are in 2019, we have made some changes. But it's all gone. It is a great effort to be done and we have in addition the countermeasures that we have made other 1% of GDP for 2020. What you're saying is not based on evidence. Because the evidence, Mr Karathanasopoulos, is said to have reduced inequality, the so-called Gini indicator. The evidence suggests that child poverty has been reduced. The evidence suggests that the difference of over 20% compared to less than 20% has shrinked. These are the evidence. Is that what we want? Is it socialism? No, it's not socialism. But is it in the right direction? So I would ask you not to repeat what the New Democracy says about countermeasures. We should be able to discuss this seriously. If it's not the right countermeasures to tell me. But that is 1% more for 2020, above the countermeasures we have already voted on, no one can deny it. That's a clue. Tell me that you don't like this and that and that other countermeasure, but not that there are no countermeasures. Let the conversation be serious. So I recommend this amendment for that reason. Because it's in the right direction, it's in a direction that widens our class division and the middle layers. And the political counterpart of this enlargement is the call of the people who are green, who are social democrats, who are communists, who are left-wing, to be together to prevent something that is not similar, Mr Karathanasopoulos, it has nothing to do with it. You either didn't read what Mr. Mitsotakis, Mrs. Xafa, Mr. Stournaras or read it and didn't understand. But that's the same you can't claim at all. And that's why right now people have to take their lives into their hands to change it. I think I have said enough about this amendment. I move on to the other one that has two pieces and one is for the banks. We've been through a merger bill - divisions. What's the question? When that happens, do the two pieces have to ask for a financial institution's permission from the beginning or not? Our view is no and it is also the view of the Bank of Greece and the Ministry of Finance. Why? Because it takes too much time and will make it difficult for the strategic reduction in red loans. That is the essence of this amendment. After one piece was licensed financially, when you cut it in half, it can't start over. There may be a shorter process, but not what you send it to the bells, and so banks can't function in the way they have to. The latter is for the so-called superstition, where we are making a change so that they can be in the Selection Committees for Executive and Executive Members. As far as I am concerned, it is absurd that what had been imposed on us, for example, CEO, the principal, the CEO, should not have an opinion - in committee, it will not be his or her decision - on what it is, on what it is, on what it is, to have an image, whether they are cooperative, whether they match their thighs and whether it has the needs it considers. So it has to be. It is a very simple amendment, and I do not think we need to say anything more. Finally, I say that the House is closing today. It's very important that the world who hears us know what's at stake. It is not a normal election that we will have two parties about saying the same thing, as we used to be before the crisis. We are saying different things, with different social references, with different priorities, with different seriousness and with different credibility, which we have shown in the last four years, and at the same time with a government that has received the message from the European elections and considers that it can correct the bad texts and go ahead. In these elections we have to decide on our lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I will take the floor for a minute because it was at least mentioned in the position of the JRC. Minister, we won't throw the ball at the platform. We have talked to you about the specific countermeasures that your amendment abolishes and which relieve people's hearts. Why do you not put in the position of these countermeasures the reduction of tax rates for legal persons, the reduction of taxation for distributed profits that relieve people and do not make these reductions? You put in other things because the interests of business groups are the sacred rule that you follow. I will not go into this anymore, but I shall refer to something that is very important. You spoke of the huge mistake of the JRC. Do you have the nerve to say that the JRC will bring the New Democracy to the government? Your policy didn't wash it out? Didn't you go to the municipalities that were opposing the JRC, the three of Attica and Ikaria, with the New Democracy to lose the JRC? Didn't you do that? [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] At the bottom of the line, what you mind is the policy of the JRC. To change - it says - the JRC policy, namely to become a useful party for the bourgeoisie. You want a useful party for imperialists, such as the other communist parties in Europe that you have as an example. Truth, tell me: These powerful communist parties in Italy, France, which reviewed the revolutionary strategy, where did they end up? The trash can of history! On the contrary, the extreme right, both in Italy and France, was claimed. And you have the courage to give up the KIC on politics, which it has and to describe yourself as left-wings that you have cut off any connection with the Left, why exactly are you American ambassadors? 'Yes, man' you tell the American Ambassador. Push the hand of Netanyahu, the murderer of the Palestinian people! And you give up on us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u132	Look, Mr Tsakalotos and you of SYRIZA, there will be no useful party for American imperialists, for capital and shipowners, as you would like. Because exactly the strong JRC is the answer to both extreme right and fascism. Because after all, with the extreme right you have worked with the government for four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u135	Don't do this ping pong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, the latter was heavy. You know I always keep my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u137	But I do not want there to be any personal references so that we do not continue with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I am not going to make personal reports, especially with Mr Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u139	Minister, you have the floor for just a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u140	Yes, Mr. President. That's what I asked. I didn't ask for any more. I don't think I need to answer whether we were with the Golden Dawn. I think the whole world knows who fought...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u141	With the Independent Greeks, I told you you were in the government together. It's right-wing, isn't it? Mercy, pervert!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u142	I just want to say one thing, Mr. Karathanasopoulou. I didn't interrupt you. Listen in a quiet way so people can understand the controversy that exist and not the fantasies. You asked me, 'What do I care?' One thing I care about. No one else. I don't care if we're here after a year and have a world that'll have taken away the benefits from him, which will have increased their taxes, which will have broken their employment relationships, which will have cut their collective contracts. I can't imagine what we're going to say in this world when in a year, at all levels, their lives will be worse. That's what I care. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u143	Are you referring to your own policy? Is that your self-critic?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u144	Thank you. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty-four students and students and two teachers from the 4th Primary School of Kilkis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Nikolaos Nyfoudis, has been speaking for six minutes because the President of the Parliamentary Group has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 6 September 2018, between the Greek State and the institution "Stavros Niarchos" the contract was signed, validated by Law 4564/2018 as part of the initiative to strengthen and upgrade health in Greece. The contract provided for the financing by the foundation of eight projects, each of which would be an individual contract, which after its ratification forms an integral part of the initial contract. This draft law validates the individual donation contracts for the V and VI projects which relate to the following: Project V sets the basis for the modernisation of air transport carried out by the EAW. This concerns, on the one hand, the provision of two new state-of-the-art aircraft after their equipment, on the other hand, the repair of existing helicopters. These new aircraft and helicopters that will be maintained will contribute substantially to strengthening the capacity and effectiveness of the ESDC aerospace and to the uninterrupted execution of the heavy patient aerospaces in nursing establishments and will be used to transport medical personnel to provide medical care and first aid to heavy patients. Therefore, the implementation of this project, the completion cost of which is estimated at EUR 25,000,000 and which is fully covered by the institution, will have a direct impact on the health services provided throughout the territory by modernising and upgrading the health system and strengthening the sense of security for citizens as regards their direct access to public health structures. With regard to Project VI, this project concerns the supply and installation of medical tomography equipment, the broadcasting of positrons at Heraklion, Ioannina, Larissa and Alexandroupolis Hospitals. It also concerns the establishment of radiopharmaceutical plants at Heraklion Hospitals, Ioannina, Larissa and the Papageorgiou Hospital of Thessaloniki. The historical cost of this project is estimated at EUR 17 million and will be fully covered by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. The implementation of this project with the state-of-the-art equipment that will be installed will be part of the data of the country's health system, modernising and upgrading all the health services provided, not only in the large urban centers of Athens and Thessaloniki, but also throughout the country by serving thousands of patients. The resolution of the regulations in this draft law is therefore necessary in order to implement the donation of Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation, which will upgrade and strengthen the public health system of our country, as it will bring significant benefits to the functioning of the EKA and to hospitals with the ultimate benefit of the citizen, which will receive better quality services. Moreover, the upgrading of aerospace facilities creates a greater sense of security for citizens of border and remote areas, as emergency needs will be met faster and with greater security. Therefore, in Potami, we can only be positive in their vote. But, along with the ratification of these two conventions, in your regular manner, you are bringing twelve different amendments to the vote, of course all overdue. The proposed amendments as a whole could be seen as a set of fragmentary and unrelated arrangements on issues of different ministries, with the eye of the government - where else? - to the polls of the forthcoming national elections. These amendments continuously extend the time limits laid down for the public. So why? Because the public with its chronic diseases, which no one wanted and does not want to eradicate, simply fails to cope with the time frames of action envisaged by the law. They give gifts to the municipalities themselves to extend the length of employment of social work programmes. They prolong cleaning contracts. We have elections, we do not end the conventions now. Let them end later with the new government. They provide for the retrospective deletion of fines to undertakings in the oil sector, on the grounds of alignment of the legislation of the Ministries of the Environment and Economics with regard to the co-installation of oil. They also regulate issues of the Regulatory Authority for Energy and the Long-term Power Compensation Mechanism and issues of operation of steam power plants in existing installations in Crete. They pay late payments of loss-making organisms, such as the Greek Sakharov Prize Industry, rather than carrying out a relief plan, so that they will no longer harm the public. It is allegedly facilitating investment by giving successive extensions to the integration of investment projects. But investment projects are not complete because investors are unable to complete the conditions under which they had joined the development law before the economic crisis. As many extensions as you and the next government give, you won't change that. If most of these investments cannot be completed, because these investments have ceased to operate, and they have already received half of the State grant, and you simply do not want to be serious about this. Let the next one be forced to make the revocations of investments. Finally, with an amendment, you are abolishing the provisions relating to the reduction of the tax rate on income from employed persons and pensions, while abolishing the tax countermeasures introduced in comparison with the above-mentioned measure. In other words, you are taking the tax reduction back, believing that people will take this seriously when they are in the polls a month later. You probably did not learn your lesson from the Christmas present you gave Easter a few days before the European elections. But with such growth tricks, we're not going to see. The country needs serious changes and reforms, structural changes in the functioning of the state and the economy, changes that will transform it into a modern state that will be attractive not to foreigners, but to young people who went abroad seeking work and a better future and who are unable to return even if they really want it. So govern, gentlemen, not by looking at the polls, but by looking at the new generation, in the seventeen years that today give pan-Hellenic exams and struggling for their introduction to universities, in the seventeen years that fight for their future in this country, in the seventeen years that they continue to dream. Government in such a way that today's 17-year-olds do not need to rest, to be able to stay in our country, to attempt, to innovate and to divest. I have been tired for the last ten years of seeing the same wet eyes, the same lost gaze of the newly resurrected family, the resurrected Greek. In closing, of course, I wish all the students of the Third High School success in the introductory exams at the universities. To say a good one to the parents who supported their children in this difficult struggle and to urge them not to be disappointed by any results. To chase their dreams regardless of their success or failure in the pan-Hellenics. To become basically conscious citizens, nice people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Nyfoudis. They will then take the floor in turn, Mr Spirtzis, to support Amendment No 2231 and Mr Pappas for Amendment No 2250. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Mandas, will follow in Step and Mr Xanthos will be closed. Here, Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. It is an amendment, a formal regulation. It is for our fellow citizens who have completed the age of seventy-four years and we need to extend the driving licence - the previous law is valid until 31 July 2019 - in order to serve as a result of elections and due to the burden that exists in the services of the regions because of the well-known difficulties some have deliberately started for months. This period is therefore extended for five months, and the same applies to the issue of the necessary certificate that they have given or applied for examination, so that there is no problem with Trojana, because they did not obtain similar assurances by the end of the year. These are two formal dates and there is also a legislative improvement that I would like to give you in the Minutes for the abolition of the relevant provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u148	The Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr Pappas, has the floor for Amendment No 2250.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President. To begin with, I would like to say that SYRIZA in the second round of municipal and regional elections - because some things have been heard - has supported progressive lists in both municipalities and regions. And it would be wishful for any progressive work in this Chamber to be able to support the same, because in many neighborhoods in Athens it seemed that this was not the case. Secondly, useful Left is the Left that can change things for the people. For the interests of perhaps useful Left it is the left that leaves the political game and expresses the view that things will change in an undetermined future. A second comment I would like to make is that the River Parliamentary Representative described some noble objectives. For these noble objectives, we are also working on these noble objectives, and we call for any progressive force to contribute to the critical consideration of 7 July. This is a clear message. Mr President, I call on the House to vote on the amendment - and I thank the Minister for her acceptance - on the press distribution issues. Press distribution issues have been made known with too many publications. Freedom of the press is protected by our Constitution and I would say that it must be guaranteed, through the guarantee that it will also be free to distribute the press. The problems in the distribution of the press have, as I said, become known. There is a monopoly on the distribution of the press and reports very seriously on a unilateral change in the commercial policy of the agency against the distributed forms, and they have caused the Government to react by my letter and by the Deputy Minister Kretsos to the Competition Committee, followed by a letter from both the Minister of Development and the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis. The decision of the Competition Committee on the basis of these questions, addressed by the Government, is an interim decision to the press distribution company, to the agency. The decision of the Competition Committee assumes that we have a very serious issue of exploiting the dominant position of the monopoly in practical terms against the other distributed forms and commands a "false" of change in commercial policy, while it says there is likely that there is a question of refusing to sell certain forms and of discreet management with the returns of insurance contributions. We are therefore introducing an explicit ban on press traffic, which concerns all stages of press movement, and, of course, we are describing the penalties provided for. It is an area which, unfortunately, has developed within it too serious issues of conflict of interest. He who distributes the press has his own literature, and in his own publications he behaves in a privileged manner. The Government comes to cover a legal gap which is too serious in the light of this decision of the Competition Committee. Of course I should like to inform the House, Mr President, of the Convention on the work of the linear code, that is to say, the work it will give in real time at all stages of the movement of documents. I'm opening a parentheses here. The figures on the movement of documents published at the moment do not really relate to figures. They are about estimates arising from the agency itself. So you realise that there is a question of 'grey zones' here. In the next few days, therefore, we also sign the convention on the so-called bar code. We are therefore introducing two pillars of too much transparency in the distribution of the forms. The second part of the amendment concerns the postponement of the date for compulsory electronic signature of civil servants. It has been a very serious effort and it is a huge step. We have already signed the contract with the contractor for the electronic handling of documents in the public domain. One hundred and fifty thousand public officials will have their remote digital signature, and twenty-one thousand points will be interconnected. Here, Mr President, I would like to say that there is also an extreme difference in the way we see the reform of the public sector. According to the study by IOBE, this electronic document handling system will save the public 380m euros. This amount is two rent benefits. What is the answer to the other neoliberal perception? Limitation, redundancies one by five. People are listening to us, who right now can be in hospitals, TOMY, in schools. He hears that there are political forces who want to leave first five doctors to hire one, leave five nurses to hire one, leave five firefighters to hire one. I think someone can draw their conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA, Christos Mandas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, they have lowered and the lights are closed as this Parliamentary Period closes! It was a parliamentary period which, in my opinion - with the shocking figures it contains and played all this time - will remain in history with a positive sign. When the social majority gave us the power in January 2015 and the responsibility to take over the rule of the place and again gave us this possibility - and in the shocking summer referendum of 2015, and then, after the difficult compromise, and in September 2015 - I think that all of us from the majority of the House, from SYRIZA, did everything possible - obviously with errors, omissions, difficulties and failures - so that we can get the country out of this great crisis, from this deep darkness in which we had been submerged after forty years of governance by systemic parties. And I think we did, I would say quite simply, our duty towards the social majority. And I think we will be judged in a strict and fair manner in the forthcoming elections by the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law on which we all agree in its main trunk - I will say two things for the amendments - and which strengthens the public health system in a biased manner. And I say this word, because it is no coincidence that this donation goes to the public health system and strengthens the public health system. Because I would like to highlight one of the major problems of the period that comes and in particular of political controversy, which I hope and hope - and we must all contribute to this - to be a programmatic confrontation in a green political landscape and in a Europe and a world that is, I would say, a transition that is marginal, first of all because of the threat of climate change. And that should not be forgotten at all. It's probably the most crucial thing of the next period. This seems to me to be the leading controversy, among the forces that want a public health system that provides free and high-level services to the citizens and the forces that want to go back to the old and which have already done the deals to give the private sector - and in particular to the large private insurance companies - 'filetat' of the national health system. This will be a leading confrontation and we must do everything possible, what is humanly possible these days, to highlight this different policy, the radically different policy, but also to do everything possible, to convince the world that not only the Greek but the global reality, shows that when we do not have a public health system - this is the conclusion of the World Health Organisation and of all the people in which land - then the inequalities are being launched. And we are the most powerful force in the face of inequality, and we are the most effective force, that is, the left, in the struggle and in the fight against inequality. In this bill there are important amendments that really solve problems. They are neither last-minute arrangements nor have any such effect in any case. And one of those which has been a great deal of talk about is the amendment that concerns the abolition of tax reductions. Some years ago, in May 2017, we were discussing this issue in the plenary session of Parliament and before the committees, and I would like to read to you something that has been said to the committees: 'This moment the average debt to the OAU is EUR 10,000. 70% of the insured, that is, five hundred five thousand of my colleagues, do not pay insurance contributions and have a fund debt. Let's go pay for this? Can we? Oh, no. Let's go to close." These words that I read to you here are the intervention and speech of the President of GSEW in 2013, which the SYRIZA rapporteur Christos Karayannides reminded us of, and are indicative of the situation that was created in the dark years of the memoranda and of this disaster that was basically done from 2010 to our own governance, and which I think is undoubtedly proving that the crucial shot against the social majority and the middle layers in this period. They are very characteristic of what the president of GSEW said in 2013. To substantiate this further, I would like to state two elements from ELSTAT, which show exactly how this very great disaster occurred mainly in the middle layers, where they have not lost, as it is said - it has also been said from our side - EUR 5 000 at this time, but have unfortunately lost even more. It is almost 37%, which accounts for about medium-incomes in 10,000 euros loss. I submit the relevant report from ELSTAT. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Mantas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We also need to know that from 2009 to 2015, eight hundred twenty-two thousand people were moved from middle to the poorest. Unlike 2015 to 2017, people moved from the poorest in the middle layers. These are elements of ELSTAT for poverty and inequality and I would ask them to be studied. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Mantas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I add only the last one concerning the risk of poverty, the child poverty launched in 2013 at 28.8%. She's decreased with 2017 figures and she's even back at 24.5%. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Mantas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All the above that I have said relate to this amendment, because when we discussed this bill, we were told that it was 'cheese'. I'm actually reading this. Mr Stavros said: 'The measures are sure. They're the sure thing. The countermeasures will be implemented under very difficult conditions." At least he kept an approach. "They constitute cheese with the aim of getting people's attention from the lighthouse." However, as was seen from yesterday's hearing, society is not pinching. Mr Koutsoukos supplemented, by addressing the Parliamentary majority: 'What will you vote on today? But today they will vote for the cuts in pensions that are EUR 2.5 billion, voting for the cuts in wages that are EUR 2 billion by reducing tax and EUR 400 million by social benefits for our weakest fellow citizens. It is the allowance for poor children who go to school for unprotected children." "These cuts, ladies and gentlemen..." he said to us, "they concern over a million retired people who will lose 350 euros despite Mrs Ahtsoglou's falsehoods, and concern a total of four and a half million employees and retired people who make statements, subject to the tax on wages and pensioners." What happened to all this so that the Greek people could understand and understand? None of the things that they planned at that time was verified, because in recent years we have abolished the reduction in pensions, we are now abolishing tax-free reduction and at the end of the day we are with a set of positive measures that go ahead with our society. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this. In the shocking novel "By looking for the Lost Time", by Marcel Proust, I had the luck of reading it in some old editions of "Iridan" - I am seen by Mr. Kostas Zouraris - the last volume is "The Rewinded Time". Jean Ruse writes about this last volume that the novel is structured in such a way that the end bears its beginning. But it is not less true that the beginning gives rise to its end. We are in front of a shocking moment in Greek history, and I am absolutely sure that we will all be able to move forward, not to let us go back to this difficult dialectical relationship. And I think that the Greek people in their minds, conscience and vote will seal such a development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Mada. The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u153	First of all, I would like to put forward a legislative improvement, which concerns the completion of the headline of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I would ask that it be distributed to colleagues. Here you go, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u155	I would also like to say that the parliamentary amendments are not accepted. And let me close, given that we are few and has spent a lot of time making a few points. So we are dealing with a regulation with an innovation partnership between the public health system and a mutually beneficial institution. It's an investment in public care. This donation comes to strengthen a political project, which has been implemented with great effort and difficulty over the years, a political project that said: "Catholic coverage, guaranteed access of uninsured citizens to the health system, strengthening the ESS, moralisation of the health system, critical reforms". That was the political plan. And these donations really enhance the functionality of the ESS, improve the services, upgrade the quality of services. The political question, ladies and gentlemen, is this going to continue? Will we continue to invest more human and material resources in the public health system or, as the New Democracy account says, we will limit to the minimum the support of the ESS and buy services from the private sector? Are we going to continue to invest, by making use of various financial instruments in a large-scale upgrading plan for the buildings and equipment of the public health system that, as Paul said earlier, is EUR 220 to EUR 230 million with public resources and the synergy of natural and private institutions and donations, or are we going to put private companies in the hard core of the ESS, to give them vital space to gain profits? So he'll put the public health system on buildings, people and customers, and the private sector will put the machines in and make money. That is what the New Democracy tells us, so that people understand what this intervention means. And, of course, this New Democracy line does not respond to the critical problem of the health system, which let me say is not so much the infrastructure and equipment but the human resources. In fact, old equipment, even these years, in the crisis, has already been upgraded to a very large extent and we now have modern high-tech diagnostic equipment. This intervention with PET CT makes the public sector for the first time more noticeable to the private sector in modern technology. I say, therefore, that the problem of the health system is not so much infrastructure and equipment but human resources, the adequacy of doctors, nurses and other health professionals, qualified people of well-trained people who can provide good services. This is the determining factor in the final product, which is the quality services. And here the proposal from the New Democracy is tragic. Basically, it calls for us to return to the toughest phase of the Memorandum on the question of the establishment of the public health system. This 'one to five' is a re-establishment of the toughest Memorandum, of the absolute ideal of both creditors and the IMF, that the public health system is not productive and efficient, that it is not worth the effort to support it and we must let it work for the most marginalised and excluded and that here we have an overdeveloped private sector in Greece and why not use it, because we do not allow it to make money through the needs of people and the services that the public health system should provide. This should be understood very well by the people who are currently working at the ESS, who are indeed tired, inflamed, pressurized, confused wages, and who in these years have "backed" precisely because they have understood that our political project was to support and strengthen public care and not to give its "filettes" to the private sector. That's exactly what New Democracy tells us. However, it is not just infrastructure aid and recruitment. Health policy is also a web of reformist changes and interventions, which lead to better care, more quality care, which lead to what the World Health Organisation says: universality, equality, efficiency. There let me say that we have taken very important steps over the years. Reform in primary health care. There is also in the Commission's report that it is a very important reform intervention that must go ahead. Reorganization of emergency medicine. Reform in the field of drug, supplies, and even for blood management. The day before yesterday at the National Center of Haemodiasm, we presented a plan of safe and centralised management, so that the transfusioners and people in need of emergency transfusion can feel safe that it exists under the responsibility of the public blood of high quality, well-controlled and balanced distributed throughout the country. Public health. Focus on prevention and health promotion. For the first time, there is an organized policy. We have explained too many times that the health system was very hospitalised and exclusively focused on the treatment of the disease. Interventions for care after the hospital. Strengthen public restoration beds. This is currently in progress in eleven CFPs all over the country. Relief care. We have a first logging of needs and again there with the assistance of Stavros Niarchos Foundation, we are moving forward in the next period an action plan. Community psychiatric, abandonment of the immunity model. A few days ago the last immunized patients at the old hospital in Tripoli were transferred to either hostels or to the new psychiatric clinic operating at the prefecture hospital. Comprehensive treatment of dependency, emphasis on reducing damage, but also on preventing, substitution, effort to rehabilitate and social reintegration and through forms of social solidarity such as social co-operatives. Cancer strategy. National institute for neoplasms for the first time in the country. We have the possibility of public supervision of all cancer policy from prevention to end-stage care. This is a progressive, a left-hand political plan aimed at reducing and eliminating inequalities. The other political project is a market-driven political project, a plan that gives space to private speculation and, in fact, to private speculation, which expands inequalities and creates exclusion. That is what is at stake in these elections, ladies and gentlemen. Will the policy of guaranteed cover for uninsured people continue, yes or no? Will the policy of supporting and upgrading the public health system, which has its problems, have its difficulties but is upright, credible, survived in the crisis, withdrew the pressures of the austerity and the obsessions of the IMF? Will the reform continue in primary care? Will the institution of the family doctor go ahead with a new culture, with a new philosophy, through decentralised public structures, or will someone who will put "X" as has been said by this Step? Is the drug-resolution intervention going to continue, in order to have a sustainable pharmaceutical policy, which guarantees that people have access to the necessary medicines, whether they are innovative, expensive, modern and effective medicines or daily medicines that must remain on the market without any room for complications? Will this attempt to moralize the health system continue? I think these are the critical political problems. Let me close, saying: The big groups - and SYRIZA - have been a big party with the support of society all these years even if they are defeated at some point, have the potential to reconstruct, reorganise and rebuild. This will also be the case in the next election. Because SYRIZA - and everyone must understand this - is, in fact, the body of the great progressive party, which dominated in post-cultural times in the political life of the country. This is the torso of the big progressive party and today, having received the message of the European elections with empathy for the problems of society and the difficulties of people, with a high head for what we have proudly managed to do with these difficult years and with a clear look - because we have nothing to hide and we know that we do not owe anyone, as we know, the plight of the political system and political life has a political name, which does not contain our own political space - we will be telling them honestly about our political plan, we will present them with the risk that exists from the right-wing political project and I think we will once again gain their confidence. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. Blonde. I shall now give the floor to Mr Barcas to support the last amendment tabled by a general number of 2253 in relation to the OSCE programmes, etc. Here, Mr Barkas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to present to this House Amendment No 2253/214 concerning the Ministry of Labour and sovereignly concerning the loans of the Labour Housing Organization, which has been able to implement housing projects through the grant of the interest rate on housing loans for workers. In particular, the former OEC took the interest subsidy up to 2014 to about a hundred and twenty thousand beneficiaries, of which some forty-five thousand still have balances of debt to the banks, while for the large majority the period of interest subsidy that lasted for nine years has expired. These loans were intended for the purchase or construction of a first home, the completion of a building, the extension of an existing home and the repair of an existing home. In parallel to the above, the former OEC carried out private equity housing schemes either in the form of building and granting of labour houses to settlements, with a commitment to repay them from the beneficiary residentials, or in the form of loans for the purchase, construction, completion or repair of first homes. In the context of the constitutional requirements of the rule of law and of family protection, there have already been issued for the own funds housing programmes of the former OEC No 13097/661/13-4-2017 and 52246/317 from 26-1-2018 decisions of the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, which provide favorable arrangements to residents and borrowers of the former OEC. The proposed legislation allows the former EC to grant the instalments of loans granted by banks by ministerial decision, and the beneficiaries of such loans have received interest subsidy because they fulfil the conditions laid down by the former ECE. In particular, authorisation shall be granted by a decision of the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, after consulting the Board of Directors of the OAED, which has become the universal successor of the OAEC repealed under Article 35 of Law No 4144/2013, to allow the interest-rate instalments of those loans to be subsidised. This Ministerial Decision will set the criteria for inclusion in the grant, such as in particular income, the value of the principal and total real estate and the amount of deposits, the interest rate subsidy rates, the maximum amounts of the subsidised instalment and the maximum duration of the grant per debt scale and any other necessary procedural and detailed issue for the implementation of the subsidy. The implementation is expected to benefit directly borrowers that are still in debt and several of them are unable to repay their loans to the banks at the risk of losing their residence. Finally, it is laid down that the costs for the implementation of the proposed provision are not borne by the State budget but are covered by the revenues of the single account and by the application of social policies referred to in Article 34 of Law No 4144/2013. In addition, according to the above provision, part of the ELP's revenue is allocated to cover social expenditure, such as the intellectual, cultural, social development of the labour force, the implementation of projects for the housing protection of the workforce, these families, etc. The regulation of loans granted or subsidised by the former OEC and the arrangements for the debts incurred in the settlements of the former OEC concludes a basic intervention by the Government in order to protect the residence of the workers. The benefits of the whole arrangements are calculated as a total of over fifty thousand households. With the current authorization for the adoption of the Ministerial Decision, some 40 000 households will benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr. Barca. I shall now give the floor to Mr Pitsirla, Deputy Minister of Economy and Development to support an amendment tabled on 15.25. Mr. Pittsorla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u159	Amendment No 2254/15 concerns an improvement in the amendment of No 2960 made by No 4469/17. It was concerned with cases of migration if, after the completion of the privatization and the transfer of shares, there were issues of customs infringements involving management prior to the privatization and in this case not to charge the buyers of this type the fines. There was a need for improvement, and for cases where fines were again charged for uses prior to privatization, which, however, were not charged until the new law was put into effect. In this case we want to cover the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much for the explanation. Before we close, we will have a very short circle of seconds from the parliamentary representatives or from the rapporteurs. Mr. Michaelides has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that at the end of this process and following the positions of the Ministers, the rapporteurs of the parties and colleagues in this Chamber, it is clear that we are now striving to vote, with two completely different concepts on the subject of public health, since the main part of the legislation, which we are debating today, concerns public health, concerns a great donation to the EKA. I think it has been demonstrated in the most emphatic way that this government, in an extremely unfavourable atmosphere, has over the last four years made great efforts to put up a system, which - let me say - has received it in almost a collapse, a system which is devastated, in essence, and also in the eyes of the Greek citizen. I come from Chios, an area where, until a few years ago, the General "Skilicheio" Hospital was considered to be about a kind of asylum, a hospital where people fled, who, for various reasons, mainly socially, needed care. And we must say that in recent years - of course I am not just talking about the period of our own - this nursing institution has become an institution, which, in some of its special units, can be considered as a top and top nursery, in fact, for the wider Aegean region. These achievements, as the Deputy Minister for Health pointed out earlier, are not random and did not fall out of heaven. Efforts have been made with economics, with the removal of all those procedures, which were channelling money where they were not supposed to. All this, of course, has resulted in - let me close this referral back to the Chios hospital - in general the vast majority of the health units in our country to offer services much better and higher than in previous years. On the other hand, let me say here that it is not what is said to be missing a few words from some, and I am referring to the actors in Officerial Opposition, and a part of their programme is revealed. Of course not! It is precisely this programme itself, which, to some extent, is trying to hide it. But it is very obvious that this is demonstrated in Greek society. What's this program? In short, let us say that it is a programme that wants a little bit of public health, but it also considers the main pillar of support for private initiative. It means, with two words, that all these efforts we have made over the entire period will be - if the New Democracy party is in power - in fact, a breakthrough of this system, which we have worked hard to put on its feet. I am absolutely certain that the Greek people, in the coming elections, will choose on the basis of this, which is of interest to him. Given that we have extensively discussed health issues, I would like to say that something like that also applies to all the other issues in which this government, in very difficult circumstances, has tried to put a social sign and to a large extent has done so. I am sure - and I repeat - that the Greek people will have to make their choices and see their real interests and not what the mediation system is primarily spreading and unfortunately, in the last few days, in an unauthorized manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Michaelides. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall twenty-four students and students and six teachers attending from Heraklion Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now I'm going to give Mr. Karathanasopoulos the floor, if he wants to, then Mr. Nyfoudis, and we're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u163	I want to make a statement before the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u164	So we should go to Mr. Nightbude. Mr. Nyfoudis has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u165	I won't bother you that much. I'll talk for a minute. I have the opinion, listening to all our dear colleagues, that we must all realize that the donation of Stavros Niarchos Foundation is beyond us. It goes beyond us as parliamentarians and as citizens of the country. He's beyond us, because he's a gift to society that needs it so badly. It's a gift to a society that shows the new terms of the game today. We can't talk about working relationships like we talked about thirty years ago. That's how I've learned that I'm acting as a self-creator in the free profession. It shows the way, which tells us that private and public interest can be brought forward together. He's no longer the bad employer and the good worker. There are good guys and bad guys from every side. The point is that Stavros Niarchos Foundation shows a road and I hope others will follow. In this direction, Potami will obviously be voting for the bill. It will, of course, state'representations' to the amendments, as has been set out in the Conference of Presidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much Mr. Nyfoudis. The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Karathanasopoulos has a statement to make. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u167	I shall make an explanation of vote. Of course, before that statement, I should just say one word. SYRIZA ministers are very galantic to delete and exempt business groups from fines. I'm coming to the statement. The JRC, in expressing the workers' demands, tabled an amendment to cancel the tax reduction, which the SYRIZA Government had voted on. The government rejected this amendment on 15 May by the JRC. The government then brought to the House its own amendment on tax reductions, but at the same time, in the same text, it annulled it by abolishing the so-called countermeasures. More specifically, it abolishes the reduction of the initial tax rate for employees and pensioners from 22% to 20%, abolishes the provision for the reduction of HPAI by 30% if the amount of the tax does not exceed EUR 700 and subject to the limitation that the reduction would not be more than EUR 70 and withdraws the privileged abolition of the so-called solidarity levy for annual incomes from EUR 12 000 to EUR 30 000. The JRC, with its speeches, asked the Government to limit itself to cancelling tax reductions and withdrawing the other provisions. However, the government did not even do so, i.e. distinguishing the vote on the tax-free article and the countermeasures. We know, of course, very well that the Government has refused the JRC's proposal because it has commitments to the European Union and to the institutions, in the context of budgetary discipline and the bloody primary surpluses. The JRC, because it supports the cancellation of duty-free reduction and disagrees with the other issues contained in the government amendment, insists that its own amendment should be put to the vote to cancel the tax reduction. But the government refuses to put our own amendment to the vote, and that is why we are obliged to vote only on the government. It is precisely because our vote is 'yes' to abolish the law which reduces tax-free and 'no' to abolish all other positive measures for the people, that we are obliged to place ourselves with the'residents', which expresses this very point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Barkas has the floor to support an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u169	What are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, the bill has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u171	I am making a proposal to the government to vote in the twelve and to bring all the amendments it wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u172	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This proposal is rejected, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u173	Usually, the Minister speaks last and the debate of the bill closes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u174	The Minister is gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u175	Mr Barkas, you have the floor for the amendment under a general number of 2255 for two minutes. Then the debate will be closed and we'll have an interruption for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u176	I want to defend a just request the government had announced. It concerns the amendment No 2255/2016. With this amendment, as it will be incorporated into this bill, the persons employed in the cleanliness of the public education areas of any grade, i.e. the school cleaners, from the 1st of next month, since the publication of the law, will enter the heavy and unhealthy signals. It is something that we announced, that we supported. It was a constant request from cleaners, people working in public schools. I think it had to be done. The specific features of this work necessitate the proposed legislation on the inclusion of cleaners in the Barber and Unhealthy Occupational Safety Regulation, irrespective of the number of hours of their daily employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u177	Thank you. We will now take a five-minute break in order to prepare the insect of the bill and then proceed directly with the vote. I would ask the rapporteurs to remain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The debate is closed at the outset, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Following the individual contracts for V and VI projects of 06-09-2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation “Common Benefit Foundation of Stavros S. Niarchos” and the Greek State in order to strengthen and upgrade infrastructure in the field of health and other provisions." We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the draft law, an article, sixteen amendments, a farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen with scroll down. At the top right-hand side of the screen the number of articles remaining for voting is shown each time. Of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles and amendments, as well as the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please address the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u179	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u180	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: [[CHANGING PAGE]] ‘Preparation of individual contracts for Projects V and VI of 06-09-2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation “Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation” and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of infrastructure in the health sector and other provisions”. The Authority considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within SYRIZA: YES [[CHANGING PAGE]] N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: K.E.: PN THE PUBLIC: YES Article first reads as if it were FAMILY SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: K.E.: PN THE PUBLIC: YES COMP. REP. EC 1984 2229/190 as it is FAMILY SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: K.E.: YES THE WORLD: COMP. REP. EC 1984 2230/191 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: K.E.: YES THE WORLD: COMP. REP. EC 1984 2231/192 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: K.E.: PN THE WORLD: COMP. REP. EC 1984 2232/193 as it is OBJECTIVE SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: C.E.: OXI THE WORLD: COMP. REP. EC 1984 2233/194 as amended. VOCATIONAL TRAINING SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: K.E.: PN THE WORLD: COMP. REP. EC 1984 2234/195 as it stands SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: K.E.: PN THE WORLD: COMP. REP. EC 1984 2235/196 as it stands SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: K.E.: YES THE WORLD: COMP. REP. EC 1984 2247/208 as OBJECTIVE SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: K.E.: PN THE WORLD: COMP. REP. EC 1984 2248/209 as it is FAMILY SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: C.E.: OXI THE WORLD: COMP. REP. EC 1984 2249/210 as it is FAMILY SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: C.E.: OXI THE WORLD: COMP. REP. EC 1984 2250/211 as it stands SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: K.E.: YES THE WORLD: COMP. REP. EC 1984 2251/212 as OBJECTIVE SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: K.E.: YES THE WORLD: COMP. REP. EC 1984 2252/213 as it is FAMILY SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: K.E.: PN THE WORLD: COMP. REP. EC 1984 2253/214 as it is FAMILY SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: K.E.: YES THE WORLD: COMP. REP. EC 1984 2254/215 OBJECTIVE SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: C.E.: OXI THE WORLD: COMP. REP. EC 1984 2255/216 OBJECTIVE SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: K.E.: YES THE WORLD: Cereals article as it is REFERENCE SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: K.E.: PN THE PUBLIC: YES Total FRAMEWORK SYRIZA: YES N.B.— — — — — — — — P.S.S.: H.A.: K.E.: PN THE PUBLIC: YES
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u181	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Preparation of the individual contracts for V and VI projects of 06-09-2018 Donation contract between the Foundation of the "Food Benefitful Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation" and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructures and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u183	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. The minutes of Thursday 7 March 2019, the minutes of Thursday 20 March 2019, Thursday 21 March 2019, Friday 22 March 2019, Thursday 28 March 2019, Friday 29 March 2019, Monday 1 April 2019, Wednesday 3 April 2019, Thursday 3 April 2019, Thursday 4 April 2019, Friday 5 April 2019, Thursday 8 May 2019, Thursday 8 May 2019, Thursday 11 May 2019, Friday 12 April 2019, Monday 15 April 2019, Tuesday 16 April 2019, Thursday 18 April 2019, Thursday 18 April 2019, Friday 19 April 2019, Monday 19 April 2019, Monday 22 April 2019, Monday 23 April 2019, Monday 23 May 2019, Wednesday 8 May 2019, Wednesday 8 May 2019, Thursday 9 May 2019, Monday 13 May 2019 (morning), Monday 13 May 2019 (morning), Monday 13 May 2019, Tuesday 14 May 2019, Tuesday 14 May 2019, Wednesday 15 May 2019, Wednesday 15 May 2019, Wednesday 15 May 2019 and Monday 20 May 2019, Monday 20 May 2019, Monday 20 May 2019, Monday 20 June 2019, Monday 20 May 2019, Monday 20 June 2019, and 20 June 2019, Monday 20 June 2019, Monday 20 May 2019, Monday 20 May 2019, Monday 20 May 2019, Monday 20 May 2019 and 20 May 2019, Monday 20 May 2019, Monday 20 May 2019, Monday 20 May 2019 and 20 May 2019, Monday 20 May 2019 and 20 May 2019, Monday 20 May 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u184	The minutes of Thursday 7 March 2019, Wednesday 4 April 2019, Thursday 8 April 2019, Thursday 11 April 2019, Thursday 12 April 2019, Monday 15 April 2019, Thursday 16 April 2019, Thursday 18 April 2019, Friday 19 April 2019, Monday 22 April 2019, Monday 23 April 2019, Monday 6 May 2019, Wednesday 8 May 2019, Thursday 9 May 2019, Monday 13 May 2019 (morning), Monday 13 May 2019 (morning), Tuesday 13 May 2019, Tuesday 14 May 2019, Wednesday 14 May 2019, Wednesday 15 May 2019 (morning), Wednesday 15 May 2019, Wednesday 15 May 2019, Wednesday 15 May 2019, Thursday 16 May 2019, Friday 17 May 2019, Monday 17 May 2019, Monday 17 May 2019, Monday 20 May 2019, Monday 20 May 2019, Thursday 20 May 2019, Thursday 5 June 2019, Thursday 20 May 2019 and 9 June 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-07-S1-commons.u185	With the consent of the House at 16.45 minutes the meeting, which is the last of the IZ's Period.
