ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Discussion and vote on the proposal by the Prime Minister to give a vote of confidence to the Government, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 141 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Before I mention the procedural motions, I would like to make two announcements to this House. The first communication concerns a letter from the Member, Mr Aristides Fokas, which reads: 'I hereby declare you that, from today, 15 January 2019, I join the Parliamentary Group 'Independent Greeks - National Patriot Democratic Alliance''. In response to this statement, I have a letter from Mr. Kammenos, which reads as follows: "I hereby declare you that today, 15 January 2019, I accepted the accession of MP II Thessaloniki Mr. Aristides Fokas to the parliamentary group of "Independent Greeks - National Patriot Democratic Alliance"". I am also announcing the letter sent to me by Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the Parliamentary Group Potami, which reads: "By this letter, I inform you that the Member of Heraklion Spyridon Dannelis is currently not a parliamentary group of the Movement."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u2	Paragraphs 4 of Rule 84 of the Constitution and 3 of Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure stipulate that the debate shall start after two days of its submission and may not be extended more than three days after its start. Pursuant to the above provisions, the debate on the proposal submitted by the Prime Minister to give a vote of confidence to the Government - and following its decision of 14 January 2019 Conference of Presidents - will be concluded in two meetings and will end on Wednesday, 16 January until midnight by roll-call vote. As a Parliamentary practice, today's sitting will begin on the request of the Prime Minister and will follow the speeches of the political leaders in the course of Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, if they so request and in times which will also be governed by the Bureau, i.e. it is not compulsory at the beginning to be the order of the political leaders. The Prime Minister and the political leaders - that is now compulsory, obviously - will be seconded at the last sitting, that is tomorrow evening, in reverse order of their parliamentary power. Then, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that we enter the speeches of the speakers in four circles, in proportion to the parliamentary power of the parties, with a planned speaking time of up to seven minutes for each speaker and speaker, without a right of denial. Each speaker circle is composed of fifteen Members in total. The eight groups have already submitted statements of speakers in accordance with Rule 65(5) of the Rules of Procedure and a single list of alternate speakers has been drawn up, in proportion to their parliamentary power. Changes to the list of speakers will be allowed only by a document of the Secretary of their Parliamentary Group. At the end of each circle of speakers an Independent MEP is added. The MPs of the League will alternate with the MPs of the Opposition. In each cycle there will be five Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, three Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, one Member of the Democratic Group PASOK - DIMAR, one MEP of the People's League Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn, one MEP of the Communist Party of Greece, one MEP of the ANEL Parliamentary Group, one MEP of the Group of Parliamentary Group of the ANELs, one Member of the Potami Parliamentary Group, one Member of the Centron Parliamentary Group and one Independent MEP. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups is laid down in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure. In particular, this time for the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officerial Response is up to 20 minutes, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups - the Democratic Alliance, Mrs Gennimata, the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr Michaliokos, the Communist Party, Mr Kouchouba, the Independent Greeks, Mr Kammenos, the Potamiou, Mr Theodorakis and the Union of Central Leventis - it is up to 15 minutes. The Ministers may speak for up to 15 minutes of the hour, the Deputy Ministers for 12 minutes and the Deputy Ministers may speak for up to eight minutes, without the right to a second. Obviously, there are also parliamentary representatives who can speak for up to 12 minutes of an hour, without a right to secondary education. It is obvious that they will have spoken before and then possibly the political leaders. Today's debate suggests that it ends at 12 noon. If there is time pressure, it can go further, so that all speakers and speakers can speak and - if possible - do not shorten the time. Tomorrow's meeting will start at 10:00 in the morning. I propose that the debate and the roll-call vote have been completed by 12 noon. The proposal of confidence is accepted by an absolute majority of the Members present, but it must not be less than 2/5 of the total number of Members. Does the House accept the proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u5	Do you have any objections, Mr. Treasury?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u6	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u7	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, of course I shall refer to the procedure which you have just proposed. And I'm explaining. First of all, Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure, which you have read, defines as the ceiling for this debate on the proposal of confidence requested by the government, rather than the Prime Minister, and I will explain why I am referring to the government in three days' time. The Rules of Procedure, Mr President, are not like the Road Traffic Code. It does not set maximum speed or time limits. It puts them in the thought of the legislator is the most appropriate and necessary time. And I think that both the government and the Prime Minister, but also all colleagues, will want to hear the Members' opinions on something that is a top parliamentary procedure. So we do not understand at all why the government wants to shorten this time, because it wants three days not to be completed, which, as you know, Mr President, is also the historic precedent. I do not remember all the years I have been in the Chamber having discussed such a proposal in two days. I might miss something, but it would be very strange. However, I do not think there is any - and in recent years certainly - case of discussion of such a proposal, which has been completed within two days. On the contrary, it has always been kept during the three-day period. In addition, I would like to say this because I referred to the government earlier. The government has four vacant posts. I take it he comes to this debate without intent, after this debate has been completed, to fill the vacant posts. For if this thought exists in the mind of the Prime Minister, it will mean that there is a 'carrot'. So, Mr President, the government as a whole comes and the government as a whole must give the Members three days to be placed. If the Prime Minister has his mind to pay immediately after the positions, then Article 141, which - I repeat - explicitly stipulates that the government comes and calls for a vote of confidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u10	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u11	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I will not surprise you. You referred to the Conference of Presidents and its decision. I would like to point out that this decision was taken by a majority. You have therefore heard the objections of our party, the Democratic Incorporation, to what you have proposed and the majority - not the entire Conference of Presidents - decided. We disagree with the procedure and, above all, we disagree that you are regulating the debate in two days' time. I don't know what Mr. Dendias remembers. However, we in our parliamentary group have seen all the relevant debates - correct me if we are doing something wrong - and once there has been no debate on giving a vote of confidence in less than three days. And it is no coincidence that the Rules of Procedure of the House give this power and it is no coincidence that the practice is assembled with the extreme limits of this time limit given by the Rules of Procedure. But was it sudden that you suggested this on your side? We have learned from Mr Kegeroglu that yesterday you proposed, along with the vote of confidence, that the House should also have a normal function, that its legislative work should function, that the committees should function. What's this? The Prime Minister didn't ask for a vote of confidence on Sunday? Didn't Mr. Kammenos and the Independent Greeks say they were leaving the declared? Why are you doing this? But you are doing these as a continuation of a practice that is stable on the issues of a treaty of civilization, which the government has been calling for the confidence of a hundred and fifty one, to progress firmly since the end of the nineteenth century. Look, your Governing Representative, a month ago - and I have his interview here - on a radio station, he said that there is no question, if Mr Kammenos left, that there is no question of a vote of confidence. This is your relationship with the democratic principle: from patient to non-existent, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u14	Our relationship with the democratic principle is clearly defined by the limits, the letter, the spirit and the entire application of the Greek Constitution. It is fully defined by the Constitution and by the Rules of Procedure. And you know very well that, if there were to be a different procedure like the one you are suggesting or the one you asked for yesterday in the Conference of Presidents, there would be a condition for a completely different procedure, that is to say, a motion of censure would have been tabled by the Qualified Opposition, which has the number involved in submitting the motion of censure. Then, indeed, it would also be completely unsolved, as is now completely unsolved, since no such proposal has been tabled and at the initiative of the Prime Minister and the Government in the proposal to reaffirm Parliament's confidence. Then, I say, it would be clear that the procedure would be followed as you said: that in the intervening period the House would not function, that there would be no further legislative or other procedures, that we would start on this day and that procedure would be followed. The Constitution is very clear: If there is any gap in the Constitution, we are ahead of the constitutional review. If, from the experience of the House itself, there is a gap, another interpretation, it is obvious that it should be discussed when this process comes and when we change the Constitution. The Prime Minister took the initiative and asked for a reaffirmation of the Parliament's confidence. I would also like to tell you directly, because you have raised a matter concerning the government and how many vacancies the Prime Minister has, etc., that if the Prime Minister proceeds or does not reshape in the next few days, it is also in the Constitution that he is completely his right and does not come to Parliament any government arising from partial or total reshaping in order to reaffirm the vote of confidence. So there are two extremely different issues, and I would like to take note of the hint made by the honourable Parliamentary representative, Mr Dendias, and which we have all seen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u15	No hint, Mr President. Direct position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u16	Okay. So it's a right to be different. Also, three weeks ago in this Chamber, the present government has taken up a vote of confidence in the Constitution. So it is an absolutely political issue - and so it has been raised from what I have seen in the broad public announcement made by the Prime Minister and in the letter he sent us - it is a political issue, which, with full initiative and sensitivity, I would say, is the Prime Minister himself and the Government to discuss it in the Greek Parliament. I understand for reasons relating to the Minutes, but also to the public debate that is being held that you are right, on your part, to raise the objections raised by your representatives to the Conference of Presidents regarding the two-day process. That is where we have been able and found, I believe, with a wider majority of the present governmental majority, a modus vivendi. With the organised debate of all four cycles to be exhausted, the parliamentary representatives and everyone else involved in the debate, we considered this debate to be sufficient to end tomorrow night. I understand - and I repeat - that you are legitimately raising your objection. I believe that there is - and I put it to the House for approval - a procedure which, as you rightly said, was proposed by the Conference of Presidents. Please, is there a consensus on a procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u17	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u18	Not from you. But by a majority there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u19	Not even from us, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u20	Do you want the floor, Mr. Paphie?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u21	He's been asking for him for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u22	Mrs Papariga, I was not aware that Mr Papilias was asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u23	If you know there are different opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u24	Alas. Excuse me. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u25	The Conference of Presidents has also raised the issue, which is simple, apart from the political considerations that the other parties may have. Why don't you accept the conversation for three days? What's the point? Already all these years, the fast track process has been consolidated in everything. In principle and on the articles one day the debate with permanent disagreement. In this case, because this is an important issue, we have asked for the sitting to take place three days, as the Rules of Procedure allow, so that more can be spoken. It's very simple. There is no reason for that until now. Tell us why you won't accept it. What's the problem? Is there anything urgent for Thursday? Until we made the alternative proposal, from what you know, to the Conference of Presidents to go by Thursday at noon. Why refuse, since everyone demands that this debate be held three days and there is the opportunity for more Members to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we, the Potami, and the Conference of Presidents with our representative and Vice-President of this House, Mr Spyridon Lykoudi, said that the upper limit of time laid down by the Rules of Procedure of this House should be exhausted in order to hold the debate on whether or not to give a vote of confidence in the government. The Rules of Procedure speak for a maximum of three days, just so that the procedure does not exceed three days. After all, we have so many open political issues. We have the Macedonian in front of us. We have before us the quality of democracy and the health of parliamentaryism. When we have continuous transfers of Members, when salvation or non-Government Tsipra depends on transcriptions, we need three days to talk here. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, why do you respond? Procedures'spray - wipe - you are done', we do not accept. We therefore disagree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Amyra, all right, you said the extras. I do not want to repeat the debate here at the Conference of Presidents and the final agreement reached on the whole process this week, on the basis of which the Ministry of Education's legislative work is under way tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u30	Please very much, Mr. Athanasios. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u31	Every Member has a right to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Athanasios, please. You must know, because you mentioned earlier, that during the previous debates on the proposal of confidence, it has been a long time since the debate began, it has been a normal legislative and parliamentary work. They're the dates on the services, dates and days. That is why I would ask that there should be an accuracy when we talk about the past. It is another thing if the issue is raised for the first time or as it is raised. So, ladies and gentlemen, as provided for in Rule 67(7) of the Rules of Procedure, the President shall decide whether or not to object, as has been said...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u34	Don't want the floor. I won't give you the floor, I'm very sorry. The parliamentary representatives of the parties have spoken, and if anyone else wants to speak with the parliamentary representatives, let them speak. He can't speak to every Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u35	That is the right of every Member. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u36	Please, Mr. Athanasios. Please! Let us not start with a tension on the procedurals. Political issues are, in fact, political issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u37	You are the President who violates the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u38	However, after what you said, I am the President who violates the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u39	The Rules of Procedure say so. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u40	Please very much. Okay. I'm not giving you the floor. Thank you very much for everything I hear these days. I have enough experience of staying in politics and human and civil relations between us. Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u41	Read the article! That's too bad!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u42	Based on the bypass, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I would like to speak. I've asked him many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u44	All right, Mr. Pappa. You are a party parliamentary representative. You have asked for the floor, and I may have missed you on my own responsibility. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I appreciate the anguish of the other parliamentary representatives of Parliament to win the five-minute publicity, but I consider their positions - and in particular the position of the representative of the New Democracy - totally bitual. What was said at the Conference of Presidents is well known - and I correct, Mr President, you - that the decision was taken by a majority. Golden Dawn disagreed with the weekend. Of course, if they speak for or against the government as many Members as possible, that would be better for the Greek people, but also for the functions of Parliament. So it is a pretext that the New Democracy is trying to shake the time of the opposition positions that should be said here in order to win the impressions, and, finally, to say things with their name in this Chamber - the best sponsor of the government at the moment, the best supporter or the one who would like to end the process not in three days, but even in one day, it is the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u46	Please don't interpret the positions of other parties. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u47	The New Democracy really wants to get a vote of confidence to get out of its hands as a future government or a "hot potato" called scooter. So, Mr. Dendias, who recently stated in an interview in a large newspaper that he is in favour of the term 'North Macedonia', would be better quiet. The Golden Dawn considers that the two-day debate is entirely linked to the "Skopje" and to the Agreement - the treacherous one to us, that is not what the New Democracy says, we - the Prespecies...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u48	Okay. You started at once.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u49	...and insists on its position that Macedonia is one and it is only Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u50	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u51	No 'all right'. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, as provided for in Rule 67(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the House on the incidents, I repeat that the President shall decide and, as has been said and analysed, the House shall decide on an initiative. I would ask the Members who, after all, consider that we are applying the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. [[Accepting the President's proposal]] Evidently most and most of them were raised and therefore the incident is rejected. Please, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in ten days from today, four years have been completed since 25 January 2015, since the country experienced a major political change, a major political overthrow. This is a great political overthrow that has not come as a lightning in hunger, but was the result of the greatest economic crisis experienced by our country in recent years, I would not say from post-population, but I would venture to say the biggest crisis after the Second World War at least. Most of all, however, this great political overthrow has also resulted in the administration of the crisis by the governments of recent years and the political choices and practices of many years to the crisis, which have led the country to economic bankruptcy. I am referring to the customer system, to generalised tax evasion, to generalised corruption, to state entrepreneurship, to economic and political power, to the constant expansion of inequalities, to the depreciation of democratic institutions, to the institutional decline. These are elements which have led us to this crisis, the great crisis of which the Greek people have paid very hard. In January 2015, therefore, the Greek people made a historic choice, to trust in political parties that had not ruled to lead the country out of the crisis and the memorials, to put an end to a policy of severe and unjust austerity, to rebuilding the Greek economy on new solid bases and to enter first and foremost what we call the "needs of the social majority", "needs of the socially weak", of the workers, of all those who remained completely unprotected in the face of the crisis. Since then, of course, much has gone through, much water has flown into the groove. We had the difficult and painful negotiation in 2015, the difficult compromise of that summer, when we had to take a step back so that we could have legs to walk and take quite a few steps forward. The September 2015 elections when we appealed to the Greek people asking for the mandate to continue with the agreement, the difficult agreement, the well known to everyone, was the most central moment of this route. It was a choice of political responsibility, courage and democracy, which none of the previous political leaderships in the crisis - from 2010 to 2015 - had the courage and courage to take over. All previous political leaderships went to the Greek people before and after the agreements followed another policy. Then there was a very difficult time, three years of exhaustive negotiations and four difficult evaluations to complete. At the same time, we have been in front of another difficult crisis, not only for the country, but for the entire region, in the refugee crisis, which has been brought to us to manage, in a country that was coming out of the ruins of the first two memoranda, an extremely difficult and hard economic policy. It has been a three-year tough political struggles and difficult decisions. Today, after all this, after the difficulties and mistakes that may have been made, there is no doubt at all in the last Greek and Greek, but also in all those who are following developments in our country, the international community, the European community, that today Greece is a different country from Greece that we received in January 2015. The dawn of 2019 is the dawn of a new era for our country, because in August 2018, despite the continuous catastrophe forecasts, the Cassandras, we managed to achieve what we imagined almost impossible a few years ago, the country's net exit from the economic programs, the net exit from the memorials. And not just that. At the same time, we managed to regulate the Greek public debt, making it almost a viable decade ago, which the previous governments have never succeeded and have not had the hope of achieving, as those who were regarded as politicians - we amateurs - such days five years ago were still calling for sustainability certificates. And we came, which we did not know how to govern, that we did not know about the European institutions, which we did not know how to negotiate, but we did - and this is a common finding throughout Europe today - the best possible conditions for the Greek economy and the Greek society. Today, we have fully ensured the country's financial needs by 2020, with the ESM liquidity pillow, but also to restore the level of borrowing interest rates to the pre-crisis levels. The most important thing, however, that many do not stand in this, - I am constantly standing in it - is that we have achieved all these things at the least possible cost to society and the most vulnerable, all of these things we have achieved while keeping society up. Because you know very well that our concern was not only to get out of the programmes, but to put the social majority affected by these programmes at the heart of our attention. And that's what we've done all this time, despite the difficulties. In the first half of the year we had the facilities of a hundred instalments, the humanitarian crisis programmes, the housing protection, the Social Income of Solidarity, later, by resetting the labour market, restoring collective bargaining, the hitting of black and undeclared labour, the rehabilitation of the decontaminated second memorandum, the support of the National Health System with the recruitment of doctors and nurses and the strengthening of infrastructures, the establishment of universal access of uninsured people to public hospitals. The broadcasting landscape has also been regulated for the first time after thirty years of immunity, but there is also a constant effort, including by the delay, the overrun of public budgets, each time the weakest on the social criteria are supported. We have the social dividends for three years in a row that exceeds EUR 2.5 billion, which supported those who really need, but also recently with the return of retrospectives to professionals, doctors, academics, uniforms, judges, to those who had been unfairly deprived. We also have a strengthening of education and research, but also a daily struggle to strengthen the credibility of politics and institutions, not only to talk about strengthening the socially weak, because I think the crisis was not just an economic crisis, but also a crisis of institutions that experienced our place - as well as an attempt to pave the way to the fight against corruption, interlocutory, to pave the way for the restoration of justice. I could multiply the facts of this government, but I would just like to say that at every moment - and through very great difficulties - we have moved with a single objective, with a single aim: to keep society up, to restore citizens' confidence in the ability of politics to solve problems in view of the interests of many, so that it is not the way out of the memorials on a vacancy date, but the waste of building a new authority for the country. I think that this is indeed what it is, and that may be, because a few days ago, in this Chamber, it was voted - feastfully, I would say - with 154 Members, the first, after eight whole years, a memorial budget. It was the first budget that was not dictated by lenders, but by the needs of the Greek society as understood by the Greek people. It was a budget that, after a decade of shrinking and cutbacks, for the first time, proceeded to a budget expansion, with further measures to strengthen the social majority, reduce the insurance contributions for freelance professionals, reduce HNVY to 30% for small property, provide for 7,000 more jobs in critical sectors of the public sector, such as special education, the 'Help at Home' programme, abolishing the allowance fee for cooperative farmers, for the first time, providing housing allowances for hundreds of thousands of beneficiaries and, of course, abolishing the unnecessary pension cut for 2019 and for the first time anticipated increases in pensions rather than reductions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u54	The 'necessary'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u55	Do you have any objections, Mr. Tragakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u56	I just pointed it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u57	Thank you. If you do not object to me telling you, then, that this great success of the government, the abolition of the pension cut, we have achieved it, even though we were obsessed with some of our lenders, the International Monetary Fund and, of course, your own sad attitude, gentlemen of the New Democracy. It was a attitude that will remain in history as a monument to political arsonism, as well as indecisiveness, since you mentioned: From the benches in Berlin to hold a hard stand Chancellor Merkel, to the suggestions here to Commissioner Moscovisi, that it cannot hold such a friendly attitude to the Greek Government. But I close the parenthesis and return to the main precursor of my thought. Greece of 2019 - this is the main message, and that is where I return, I said it before that is the main message - it is a completely different country. Greece in January 2019 is a completely different country from Greece in January 2015, from the shadow of itself that we received in 2015, after a devastating five-year period. It is a country that is stabilised, with an upgraded role in the international community and our wider region, can look at the future with more optimism. It is a country that finally leaves behind the social devastation of the destructive five-year-old from 2010 to January 2015 and which walks - with difficulties, of course, but also with dignity with its own forces - on the path of social solidarity for the healing of major wounds and for the expansion of justice, equality and for the prospect of development, the prospect of social provocation. This road was not an easy road, and from now on it would be a walk. But we have already taken the first steps together with Greek society, along with the Greek people, who paid disproportionately bad political choices of the past. And unjust pay! The sacrifices were made by the Greek people. It is because the country today can be more optimistic about the future. We have, however, taken the difficult steps now. And all these difficult steps were taken by a government of two parties with quite different ideological origins, a government that was so swayed by its politicians - that is reasonable - but also by the lips of the old political system, by a government which, at every turn, is difficult for all - and the political opponents, as well as those who were, passionately wanted to throw it on the rocks. Who? Those who in the old system of power enjoyed glory and material goods, and in one day, in January 2015, began to feel very uncomfortable, began to feel angry and awkward who lost the chicken with the golden eggs. Because that was what power was for them, and that is it! We have all achieved this together with a party, the Independent Greeks, who - I repeat - were and are aware of the great ideological and political differences. I would, however, like to acknowledge that this party has made a decisive contribution to this effort. And this cooperation I have characterised it as honest and sincere, with such different ideological advances, so different historical routes and traditions, which I will always honor and respect. But these ideological and political differences were about to produce their results at some point. It may not have been inevitable, but this has been the case, because, after all, this is the nuclear feature of democracy and democratic policy: you must be shocked and progressing together where you can and as much as you can. The incredible change of leadership in our neighbouring country and the defeat of nationalist Gruevski, created almost a year and a half ago - as you all know - a treaty that was a great opportunity for both Greece and our neighbours as well as for the region to resolve a historic, political and diplomatic pendingness of many decades. My conscience and patriotic duty forced me to take advantage of this historic opportunity, knowing that it would cost politically. From the first moment, along with the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Nikos Kotzias, we have been given with our soul and mind to a great effort to resolve this dispute over the name of the neighbouring country, which - and it will be if it is not solved - a great barbaric in diplomacy and foreign policy of the country, but also a great barbaric, thorn for stability in the region. We were given this effort with a sense of responsibility towards history, national interests, but also with a sense of responsibility for the future of the country and the future of the region, with a sense of patriotic responsibility to enhance the country's leading role in the Balkans and in the Eastern Mediterranean in a difficult period of time, in a period of turmoil, with conflicts, with a neighbour many times unpredictable and provocative to our eastern region which is also interested in the Balkans. And we all know that. In a difficult period, then, we have felt and felt that the crucial thing is not to look at the political cost, the possibility, but to upgrade the role, the prestige, the geopolitical value and the dynamics of the country in the Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean. And I am sure that what we are doing is right, because the national benefit is always the right thing to do. And I am sure that what we are doing is patriotism, because - I have said so many times and I will say it again today - patriotism is not to hate each other's homeland. Patriotism is to love your own country and want to see it progress in conditions of solidarity and cooperation with your neighbours, but also with the whole international community. patriotism, finally, is not a hypocritical and opportunistic approach to the big national issues, but say courageously about national issues, without the political cost being taken into account. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Patriotism is to put the national benefit in front of the party interest, not to change your mind about the critical and historic national issues based on the temporary, short-term, party interest. That is why today, ladies and gentlemen, I will say that I respect all those citizens of the ordinary, but also the Members of this Chamber and of the parties, all those who are different from me in this particular matter, but also in all national matters, all those who have a position of principle and a position of conscience, but not those who are pretending, but those who are clearly mocking, not those who are changing their opposition strategy alone. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I consider the latter to be politically unreliable, unreliable and dangerous to the place! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] There are among us MPs and parties that have always defended a different view of what has been the so-called national line for nearly twenty years. I disagree with them. I believe that it is their view and position that has led us to national defeats and that, if we follow it, will lead us to new, resentable national defeats. But I respect their point of view. I respect them and their positions. Among these are Panos Kammenos and the Independent Greeks. I disagree with him, but I respect his position. There are, however, some who, for twenty years, from this step and from all public positions, have been proclaiming and defending what we have been calling a national line. They voted in favour of it in their government's programme statements, declared it officially in international fora as ministers and today, just to save their party shop, they pretend to disagree. They are looking, in fact, for arguments where they do not exist to disagree. For all of them, I will simply say that their attitude is politically and morally dishonest, because they do not actually disagree, but they are looking to invent false, allegedly dark spots to fish in the cloudy waters of their electorate. There, if you like, there is also their difference with other political forces, who have never spoken of a complex name. There is also their difference with the position of my government partner, Panos Kammenos, until yesterday. Since the first moment of this difficult negotiation it has disagreed with the complex name. It's his opinion. I don't share her. I disagree with him. I believe - and I repeat - that this position and opinion will lead us to national defeats. It is, however, a point of view that I respect. It has a purity. In addition, in an unsuspecting time he had said that in the context of the line of the composite name this is the best possible agreement. But this disagreement between Kammens and me, with the government's line on the issue of the complex name, is the one that eventually led him to leave the government and to withdraw his support to the government. I have said this to myself, and I will say it publicly to the National Representation: I think it is wrong. I do not think he is doing the right thing, nor do I think that a choice like this was inevitable. Because this option jeopardises all the efforts of a government that has gone through forty waves to bear, precisely at the time when these efforts and these labors are fruitful, precisely at the time when the first blooms come out. I think he could well maintain his different viewpoint and position, without withdrawing his confidence in the government, without voting against the government and along with the results he has given him battles and struggles. I will, however, respect the strong disagreement, his choice, but a choice that leads me to the National Representation today calling for clean solutions and a attitude of responsibility from all Members. This government has taken the country out of the memoranda, restored normality, supported and protected workers, safeguarded social cohesion. It has before it nine months, based on the constitutionally established mandate, with very important work to complete. We have before us first of all - and we must conclude it - the process of reviewing the Constitution, a top reform that has been needed for years to strengthen the parliamentary culture, to protect social rights, to extend democracy and popular participation, but also to restore the credibility of the political system towards the citizens, who see this misery of the two stations, the misery of institutional impunity towards the ministers. I am referring to the provision on the responsibility of the ministers, which are cut and sewn on the measures of those who - and they want - to abuse the power they are given by the people. It is a regulation of shame for Parliament, democracy and the political system and it must change - and it will change - no matter how much that does not suit them! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have before us other important political initiatives, which must not be delayed: the increase in the minimum wage, the abolition of the subordinate for young people, which will give a breath to hundreds of thousands of workers and will be another step in the path that we have taken to strengthen the income and the position of workers in our country. We have the regulation to facilitate those who have accumulated dues and have now gained the financial capacity to repay them, but this volume prevents them, by introducing instalments, in order to relieve thousands of free professionals and to give new impetus to the economy. We have the law on the protection of first homes, but also on the support of housing policy, on the grant of loans to borrowers for first home loans and on the grant of rent on the basis of social criteria. We also have an end to the debate on the implementation of a historic agreement on the rationalisation of the relations between the State and church in order to resolve a period of ten years and get into new, solid foundations. We have a number of critical, ladies and gentlemen, open issues ahead of us. In order to move forward in all these major and substantial steps, I am asking directly and clearly to the National Representation to renew, to reaffirm the Parliament's confidence in this government that took the country out of the memoranda, to take the country out of the crisis and can open up prospects for the Greek people. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, in the opposition of recent days, we have heard in the awkwardness of the strategic deadlock of counter-population, in the last few days, the tenths of what we have heard. The opposition, which has not dared nor made a proposal for distrust, is the one that shooks and blames the government and me personally, which I had the courage to take the risk of doing what democracy itself demands, that I do not go any further, that is, as the Constitution gave me the opportunity, without asking for the judgement of the House, to trust and the absolute majority of it - gives me this possibility - creating ad hoc majorities for all these measures that I have announced to you, which there is no doubt that they are positive. And there are very clearly these majorities. So to me, who, from a democratic duty and democratic sensitivity, takes this courage, you have the courage to abandon us and above that honest, pure choice. We've been hearing these days about tricks, quasi-majorities, about transactions and so forth. You are so blind that you even despise the basic rules of the democratic constitution. The people elect their representatives, and the parliament gives a vote of confidence to the government, once you have the declared one. But since you have the courage and the courage to speak of governments - 'gull', may I remind you of you and Mrs. Gennamata, what exactly are the governments - 'gull'? The government you set up in 2011, you who forty years were political opponents - in one night, in one night, you became from enemies. What was that? By appointing an unelected technocrat at that time, but not political, without any popular legitimacy. And do you now have the courage to speak of a government - 'bad' and to give in to us who are doing the democratic and politically correct and appropriate? But you also come to speak, Mr Mitsotakis, both for apostates and for distances. Who? You! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You especially should be more careful because of family tradition when you use this term, Mr Mitsotakis. Be a little more careful, because historically - take care - this term has been established to describe the move made by Members who support the parliamentary majority to withdraw from it in order to serve the plans of political opponents of the government, not the other way round. Those who cast a government historically are the apostates, not the ones who stay to support a government to complete its work, move forward, justify the confidence of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u58	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u59	But you are also talking about heirly alliances and unfair transcriptions. Who? You, who recently, in this House, have joined your parliamentary group, not one, not two, not three, but four Members elected with other parties who today have parliamentary power and have a parliamentary group: three Members from the river and one from the Central Union. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In fact, your last record, Mr Mitsotakis, was one of those who publicly stated and advertised the goodness of the Prespecies Agreement and that it should be voted on. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Are you talking about transcriptions? How about you? Do you have the courage and courage you, the right to move the finger on morality, political morality on the Left and on SYRIZA, on a fact that in all previous years has moved with the unique sense of consciousness, national patriotic interest, the interest of the great majority of the Greek people, on a faction that in every way and at any cost puts its democracy and values above any other material value in its political path? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] As I spoke about democracy, I can only stand up to the misery of the last few days, misery which I am very surprised to see you have not had the political courage to condemn, perhaps because you have taken a stage. From the tolerance stage, you have gone through the stage of participation, the orchestration of these misery, as it is, unfortunately, shown by the involvement of the face of the hard party mechanism of the New Democracy in these misery. And I am referring to the pogrom of attacks, threats, extortion, terrorising MPs who have expressed intention...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u60	We haven't threatened... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u61	Sit down! Sit down! Now you'll hear them. Now the Prime Minister of the country is speaking and you have an obligation to listen carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u63	They're practices reminiscent of other times. They're practical mechanisms that remind other times. And Mr. Mitsotakis' responsibility is heavy. It is a heavy responsibility because it chooses through blindness the opposition to divide the Greek people. In recent days, ladies and gentlemen, some of your colleagues have been targeted. All those who have expressed, without hiding it, their will to remain firm in their view that this government must complete its mandate and work were targeted at tens, hundreds, thousands of messages threateningly. Mrs Papakostas came yesterday to inform me that she accepted and accepted hundreds of threatening messages, including photographs of polarized women's heads. Why? Because she has expressed her intention to support the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet, please, listen. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u65	You are the ones who are laughing at you now, but the other day you did not have the emoluments, when your central engine executive, the Secretary of the NEI, a Secretary of State for a large New Democracy organization, was the one who sent messages massively, with the addresses and telephone numbers of the mobile phones of specific Members of Parliament and called on your party's fans to send them threatening, blackmailing. He called the fans.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u66	Threatening? No one's threatening...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u67	Quiet, please! Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u68	Justice will find it. He's already on the case. Illegal acts in this place have a way of resolving them through justice. But I speak politically today. And I tell you, Mr Mitsotakis: will you condemn this practice today, will you have the political courage to condemn it? If not, I'm very afraid that the road you choose to move...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u69	We're not moving. (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Yakumato, today you're a little worried. Quiet! Please, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u71	...is a road that leads us to distant times that I am absolutely certain that our democracy and the great majority of Greek society and the Greek people have left them behind. And at the end of the day, I would urge you to think calmly and politically: what do you think you will achieve that? Do you really think you'll be afraid of elected MPs? The MPs, you know, will not be terrified. The MPs will stand at the height of their consciousness, their historical responsibility towards the place, against the patriotic duty against history, against democracy, because the only guide of the elected representatives of the Greek people is their conscience and their responsibility towards history and the place. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are times when everyone is judged, judged by history, not only for what he says but also for what he does. At times of critical historical decisions and responsibilities are coming. As far as I am concerned, I have always not kept these responsibilities for myself, I have taken them with courage and will to share them, as the Constitution and democracy itself imposes, with those who must support governments: the House and, if necessary, the people themselves. I therefore appeal to all of you to speak both clearly and honestly against your conscience, but also against the interests of the country and the people, and to give a clear answer as to whether or not you trust this government to continue, freely, openly, on the basis of what is required of the political criterion, the morality and the conscience of everyone in this Chamber. This is precisely the power of democracy and democracy in this place, after so many struggles and so many sacrifices, cannot be threatened or blackmailed by anyone. Democracy in our country is neither threatened nor blackmailed. And democracy in our country will win, be sure! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-nine students and students and three teachers from the 1st Kalybian High School. The House welcomes you and welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I must also inform the House that the following letter from the Member of Parliament, Mr Barbarousi, which reads as follows: 'Mr President, I would like to inform you that the case that caused my deletion from the Group of the People's League - Golden Dawn - has not been finalised - I therefore have the presumption of innocence - and that I have fully repacked and condemned my statement in question. I therefore wish to join the People's League Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn until there is a final decision." Also, a letter from the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Michaloliakos, has come to the Bureau, which states: "As a request we received from the Independent Member, Mr Barbarousis, informs us that the case that caused our parliamentary group to delete it has not been finalised - therefore has a presumption of innocence - and that his statement in question has been fully reconstructed and condemned, we are deciding on the inclusion of the Independent MP Barbarousis Konstantinos in the Group of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, until a final decision is made."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u73	I call on the Chief of Officerial Response and Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to step in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, the formal title of today's sitting is to give a vote of confidence to the government. In fact, however, this is the last act of a performance that has been played for four years against the Greek people, for a lousy theatre set by Alexis Tsipras and Panos Kammenos, with three objectives: first, to win by SYRIZA a few more months of power; second, to ratify the harmful Prespecies Agreement; and third, to maintain as a parliamentary group the structure of the ANELs so that his leader can maintain his privileges. In order for these three goals to be achieved by Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos, we are living a cradle that benefits political life and damages the country in many ways. At first we saw their meeting postponed, because obviously the compromise was not coming out, then we saw a false 'divorce' announced, while they remained partners in the prefecture of power and finally saw a sad transaction being carried out on live streams. Mr. Kammens lends two of his MPs to support Mr. Tsipras, who he does not delete in order not to lose his status as a party leader of the House. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And Mr. Tsipras, of course, generous, as he always is, in exchange he holds in the government two ministers of the ANELs, who of course did not submit their resignation. The pragmy, however, of manoeuvre and transaction also requires expatriations. I am talking about members of parliament who, otherwise, were elected in this House, or who have been seated and who will be abandoned.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u75	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u76	They are now willing to change to the corporations of a government that has become a 'curly', itself having plunged the economy and national interests. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Yes, Government - 'gull', because this is the new term that Mr Tsipras exports after 'Colotumba'. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you were supposed to be protecting yourself from the burden of your extreme right-wing partner in power. I see even your newspapers celebrating the removal of Mr. Kammenos, as if someone had even imposed him on you. How did you describe him as Mr. Kammenos at the edge of your speech in the statement you made outside of Maximos? ‘Replaced’. The irreplaceable Mr. Kammenos! Didn't you choose him, Mr. Tsipras, as your strategic ally from 2012? And you didn't choose him twice in 2015, January and September, to collide with him, then contemplating other possible options that you had in Central Left and Centre? And now, all of a sudden, you're supposed to be free from the weight of the far right component, you're also supposed to be openings to the centre-left. But only there I see political perverts willing to assist you, various civil shipwrecks that until recently characterized Mr. Tsipras as the most dishonest Prime Minister of Postpopulation, and now they are running behind you, begging for a piece of power for the few months left. And they're not ashamed of you, neither are you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But who lost his shame in finding her? And for Mr Kammenos, of course, the popular saying applies: If you did not fit in, you would not collide. And Mr Kammens' exit from the government is obviously figurative, Mr Tsipras, and the preconscious manipulations. Why, can you explain to me, Mr Tsipras, what kind of exit from the government is this when four of his seven Members are still supporting you? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The SYRIZA - ANELs have not been separated, they have simply merged, and the political partnership of Tsipras - Kammenos remains and at the last minute has tried to pass a scandalous amendment to serve the interests it wants in the field of war supplies. I am talking about the compensatory benefits of the F-16, these compensatory amounts that once, Mr Tsipras, were described as a scandal stool, and now you are reinstated from the back door while they have been repealed by law. I am very curious to see if you dare bring this amendment back, which Mr Kammenos has tabled at night. And I'm very curious to see how many of you will vote for it. I really hope the new Minister of National Defence doesn't play the games of his predecessor. However, I would also like to say something about the choice of Mr Apostolakis, who was appointed, as I understand it, to Mr Kammenos. Listen to what you are supposed to be left-wing sensitivities. No government has ever chosen a political leader of the army to be an active officer. The only exception was Mr Hinofotis, who was, however, first resigned, then elected a Member and then took up ministerial duties, not at the Ministry of Defence. You did something incomprehensible. You've taken an active senior officer and made him a ministerial minister in his uniform still in his uniform. The last one to which the same had happened was Gregory Spantidakis, the leader of the GES, who swore the Minister of National Defence on April 21st, 1967.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u77	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u78	Why are you disturbed by a historical truth?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Philly, please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u80	Calm down, Mr. Philly. You have the same color as your sweater. Take it easy. Don't get so red.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u81	Be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Kotzia and Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u83	You, Mr. Kotzia, why are you shouting? They kicked you out of the government and kept Mr. Kammenos. Why are you getting so upset?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u84	The speech on personal grounds...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u85	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u86	But, of course, for the first time, all this, Mr Tsipras, is fine letters. But know that, Mr Tsipras, as desperate as you gather, the citizens this time neither will you make fun of them nor will you buy them out. The bill will be heavy and you'll pay him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u87	Others took takeovers!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u88	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Curublis, are you saying this? Now you're talking 'new'!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Curublis, please have a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u91	Others threw down the government of George Papandreou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u92	Now you're talking 'new'! Enjoy your "new", Mr. Tsipras!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u93	Mr Kurubl, please, you're an old parliamentarian. Don't make me call you in class. Mercy! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u94	I waited for him to protest when I talked about political perpetrators. But he protested now, okay. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] With what you are doing, Mr Tsipras, the citizens have one more reason to punish you, because next to political deception, by the austerity, by the tough measures that you have taken, which are primarily affecting the weakest, you have added a chapter of political decline, moral humiliation and against democratic institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the unprecedented events that have taken place around us, the events that have taken place earlier, the events that are evolving, even in the background, are the last dangerous seizures of a power system that collapses. These are last-minute designs on the deck of her own Titanic that's already sinking. The masks fell, Mr. Tsipras. A policy for you means a transaction, to find two majorities, not one: one to keep in office, because you too understood that a minority government would constitute an institutional diversion. And a second majority for Skopje. That is how we have reached out from the scenarios for a government of tolerance to a government of complicity, completely deprived and with a landminessmaid agenda. All this has been perceived by the Greek society, which has realised a number of truths. Really first. And we'll have a chance, I guess, soon to discuss this. I hope that this time, Mr President, the National Representation will be given time to discuss the ratification of the Skopje Agreement, not like now, which you have chosen without any excuse within two days to undo the top parliamentary procedure, which is the vote of confidence. So we will talk about both the scaffolding and how you are giving the national interest, with Mr Kammens' silent consent. You, Mr. Tsipras, have given the Macedonian Skopje identity and Macedonian language. Really, when were these part of the national line? When were those part of the national line? Why did some people say 'no' when they asked for this and you said 'yes' and now twist the history and path of this party? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The second, of course, Mr Kammenos, I do not even see him in the Chamber today, I imagine he will come.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u95	He's been to the church, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u96	Oh, yeah. Maybe he's gone to translate, I'm sorry. The second, Mr Kammenos, who is now tearing his clothes up to defend Macedonia's name, forgot that when he could "fight" the government into the motion of censure we tabled last July, of course, and supported it. And today he endorses the vote on the Prespecies Agreement, as he has essentially given his Members by giving you the vote of confidence that you so much seek. So you're both, Tsipras and Kammenos, collaborating on a premeditated manipulation. You are accountable not only to the Macedonians, but to the entire Greek people and to the crisis in history. Really second. The Tsipras - Kammenos twin has no suspension to serve its own selfish political interests. It dissolves parties, corrupts consciences, trespassing principles and undermines institutions. You are turning, Mr Tsipras, the political life of the place into an incredible bazaar, and that is how you are shaking the citizens' already injured confidence in the institutions and in democracy itself. You think of the cynical concept that all is done in politics and that is an extremely dangerous message for society and especially for young people. Tomorrow, the House is called upon to trust not a government which has normally been set up, with cooperation, to bring about a programme convergence of some parties, but to legitimise a government which will emerge later - because I wonder - made up of desperate perpetrators of political life. As I have said before, every day of SYRIZA - ANEL stays means other problems in the country. You'll need a special workshop to get off your chairs when you lose the election. And this approach is not humorous. It is a risk signal for what they are going to follow from now on to the elections. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately tomorrow's vote is open, it is clear and so on, we will all take their responsibilities in public towards a government that raises its two hole flags, its supposedly great achievements, its two central strategic reasons for which this particular form of cooperation between SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks has emerged, that you have allegedly expelled the memorials and that you have extinguished the political life of the place. But your lies no longer convince anyone. Greeks know that this four years their lives have become worse, that their incomes have fallen, that taxes have increased, that they have been deceived by a government that has promised and done exactly the opposite. The Greeks also know that unfortunately the crisis is not over, that Greece cannot today borrow on favourable terms, such as all the other countries that came out of the programs. They also know that they paid with more than 100 billion euros, with closed banks, with capital control the tragic manipulations of the first half of 2015 that you are now trying to forget. Greeks know that there have been twenty-nine tax increases and seventeen interventions that reduce pensioners' income. The Greeks know that our homeland is being supervised in the context of a new informal memorandum that drugizes the economy with excessive surpluses up to 2022 and with a pledge of ninety years of public wealth, even our monuments. In simple terms, Mr Tsipras, you have promised the future of the country for decades to keep a few years in power, and today you are putting the country in new adventures only to avoid the election for a few months. Mr. Tsipras, you do not need the citizens to explain how well they live and how the economy is yours. You did not repeat this today and you did not repeat it because citizens see debts, seizures on their accounts, they see their children leaving abroad. They belong to the four million who owe tax, private sector workers, to the generation of three hundred and sixty euros. Professionals, who were dismantled by taxes and live with their children, experience this endless, unacceptable sewings in education every day. The citizens of crime hostages in their neighborhoods, who see Kufontina free with the Ruviks riding on the streets that he painted with the blood of his victims. Universities in the hands of hoodiers and with the public service of relatives, friends and clients of SYRIZA - ANEL. This is the Greece of SYRIZA - ANEL, a Greece that has broken it down and you've given its interests a piece - a part of every centre of power and interlocutory to stay in the government a few more months. The answer, Mr Tsipras, will be given to the polls. Do what you can to set up a few months later. As for the infamous account of the cleansing and battle against interlocutory, what should one first want? The big words about the Lagard list, which you so quickly forgot, Mr. Cipras? Or the billions that the first Minister of Transparency would bring? Instead of the money coming, the Minister left and instead of checking the oligarchs, the removal of huge fines for oil and cigarette smuggling came. Yeah, they're the young oligars who go in to Maximus from the back door! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, convenient tax arrangements to other friends canals who can now undisturbedly sell their stations. So you started, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL, and so you continue, with the 700 million that would be lost under the 'Eleftherios Venizelos' Convention, if the European Commission did not intervene. From the funds for the refugee that the European authorities are looking for, from scandal competitions such as the 'Thriasio', but also from the tens of millions that were lost in the case of DEPA, with its apparent protagonist, comrade Petsitis or simply 'Pappa Manolis', as they called it on the streets. You talk about clearance, while persons very closely connected with you on the hard core of the Maximus system have left dirty prints in public life. You are talking about anti-corruption, while you are serving interoperable systems that you have found, and you have done everything you could to create new conflicts of interest. In the meantime you are capable of everything but incapable of ruling, even with elementary efficiency. The Eye is burned. A hundred people lost their lives. All you knew to do is set up governmental TV performances, consciously hiding the dead to hide your own responsibilities. The evidence that comes constantly to light confirms what we knew from the outset, that you have dissolved the state, and you see it as only a mechanism for party arrangements and settlements. You made fun of the world, talking about the moral advantage of the Left and about the tearing of the memorials. You said and told lies again both in the first elections and in the referendum and in the September elections and you continue to rule with lies. You're talking about benefits while you've paid taxes without a precedent. Inaugurate with the works painted in a spasm. Perhaps at no time does it better reflect the lie of your administration than this lousy show you set up on the Thessaloniki subway. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I wonder, really, who counsels you, Mr. Tsipras, to make such moves, sad for you, but sadly, and for the post you are serving? A theatre lousy! You're making fun of the Thessalonians in their faces. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You are able to bring a car again to the exhibition of Thessaloniki, if you are still in the matter, to convince us that the metro operates, as you brought a train back to the previous exhibition to get back to Italy. That's who you are, Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Manipulating justice, church, independent authorities, violating the separation of powers and violating the Constitution. You are building persecutions, as in the 'NOVARTIS' case. Prenouncing convicts and slandering public persons. You referred to a party member of the New Democracy. I wonder, your Minister, wasn't it Mr. Paulakis who called to Facebook judges too? And you have the nerve to leave New Democracy for allegedly terrorized MPs when your Minister photographed certain judges and covered them, why Paulakis equals Tsipras? You're one and that! He's the mirror of your own ethos, your own style of power. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You insult public life in every way. You systematically undermine the normality that the country needs so much to get out of the crisis. In short, this government sends out the message that everything is done and there is no barrier. This, however, is the principle of dismantling any organised society, abolishing all the rules, and ultimately subjecting many to the few powerful who have access to power. It is an immoral concept of politics, which must be found against every supporter of the proper functioning of the democratic culture, of the country's progress. We will be present in this race, and we are sure we will not be alone. Ladies and gentlemen, a cloud of political amoralism shadows public life. And instead of SYRIZA - ANEL apologise for the damage they have caused in the country, they are looking for opportunity supports to continue to remain in power. Instead of deviating from the toxicity with which he has flooded public life, Mr. Tsipras is looking for selfish allies to establish himself in the government for a few more months. That is how she asks Parliament today to renew its confidence in the government. But trust in whom and to whom? Towards a system without popular representation, as it will be based on counted Members of Parliament, who have been voted on and others do? Towards a Ministerial Council that professsssssssssssss about to stay in the chairs a little longer, so that he can handle his last rumours? Towards a few more months' power, which will do nothing but deepen the wounds of the last decade? From this step I am again obliged to warn against the critical state of the economy, which will be much more burdened than a prolonged pre-election period. And it will be much more burdened with manoeuvres such as those that are being launched today by Mr Tsipras himself. This is something that is now recognised by the international houses, which clearly say the obvious, that early elections will help clear the political landscape, thereby helping the economy itself. I also send once again a risk signal for the dangerous deterioration of public life and its constant and systematic effusion, which creates a revulsion for the citizens. In all of this, of course, they also have a share of responsibility, and the 'willing' Members, who seem to have been on offer,'six at the price of a vote of confidence'. Perhaps this is the worst time of postpopulation and the slogan 'we deserve better'! expresses very clearly the need for the country to come out of this protracted decline today. Instead of discussing how to reduce taxes and contributions, how to bring new investments and new jobs, we are dealing with the power games of Mr. Tsipras. Instead of describing our positions on how to link growth to pay, we have been following the petty and brutality of two parties that have been afflicting the country for four years. And instead of talking about how we will extend the minimum guaranteed income to our eight hundred thousand fellow citizens, instead of talking about the incentive of EUR 2 000 to every new child born in this country, we measure how many people are changing their seat per hour and what party is being dispersed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u97	Please be quiet. Mr. President, excuse me. It's a cross-party situation there, it's a source of constant noise. Please, be careful. Mr. Fisherman, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u98	We're confused, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u99	Please, this is a serious procedure. Here you go, Mr. President, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u100	Instead of talking about how we will build a new insurance system, about how our fellow citizens, who are tested today, will regulate their loans, about how the banks will be supported, so that they can support the real economy, we see the SYRIZA - ANEL get a false divorce, to better share the remaining power. Yes, the Greek Parliament deserves much better than today's sitting! But if the government's initiative is a public challenge, it also represents an opportunity for every Member. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to be absolutely clear. Anyone who gives a vote of confidence will vote 'yes' in the Ambassadors' agreement, which is a great national retreat. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, at the same time, it supports a government - 'curry', without a people's mandate and with a detrimental agenda. Mr. Tsipras appears to have found the 50s of a MP. What really took place in a few weeks' time, since just 15 days ago the Government spoke of a government of tolerance, that is, minority government? What he broke through can be assumed by anyone. Transaction! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The exchange - I say it again - took place both between Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos and between Maximos and the 'willing' MPs who make the perpetrators in Parliament. Nothing hides in this Chamber, such as the Member who voted for the motion of censure on the government six months ago, and now appears willing to support it. Yes, I'm talking about you, Mr. Dannelly, I'm talking about you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What changed in six months? What changed in six months when you voted against the government and now suddenly you are voting for it? Then you did not know that by voting against the government, you also voted against the Prespes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u101	You target the MPs!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u102	It's not a targeting!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u103	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u104	I speak with names and I'm not afraid to speak with names! There's more, wait!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u105	The debate will evolve and everyone will take the floor. There's no question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u106	Please! Don't talk, don't shout!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u107	I imagine Mr. Dannelis himself will take the floor to explain his position. I think a lot of people are interested in listening to him. The MP elected with the New Democracy was taking over SYRIZA-ANEL populism, now suddenly in love with you, Mr Tsipras, supports the government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What sudden love is he! Where's Mrs. Papacosta? I don't see her in the Chamber. I guess he's gonna get into the mosquitoes to vote. I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u108	He was present, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u109	He was present, actually.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u110	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u111	And I'm sure you, Mr. Tsipras, have appreciated her skills and made her a State Secretary. How did you not realize that before? And I'm curious now to see if you've even upgraded her from the State Secretary to the Minister. The road you have chosen, Mr Tsipras, is downhill and is a dead end. The posts you offer as consideration are temporary. But citizens are not bought and otherwise the arithmetic is irreversible. If, Mr Tsipras, you find yourself with a hundred or fifty more votes, then you do not have a majority and you must take the country immediately to elections. Because something I heard in your interview that you might even go on driving, he says, the country coordinates in elections whenever it suits you. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Forget that, Mr. Tsipras. This is not the case in favoured democracies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u112	Please don't react!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u113	Today the country does not need, Mr Tsipras, your government or the new government majority which will emerge as tomorrow. It needs a new government with a fresh people's mandate to put the country forward by uniting forces. We've wasted too much time to sit down in mud, transaction and pretext for months. The "SYRIZANELs" have now become toxic and must, Mr. Tsipras, be defeated as a political and moral model. Don't look at your watch! And you spoke so much. Don't rush to leave! You're in a hurry to finish this session. What's that thing? I don't see you having too much confidence in your MPs! Such a rush now! Okay, we said, this conversation isn't convenient.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u114	Quiet, please! Be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u115	You're enjoyable. We're having a lot of fun!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u116	Okay, sense of humor is a good thing. But be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u117	I'm done. Mr. Tsipras, since you've been Head of SYRIZA, you've told it all and then you've done it all. Of these, I said "screw" of a whole decade I only hold one phrase that you said on 4 October 2014. I read from the speech of SYRIZA President Alexis Tsipras at the 3rd SYRIZA Youth Festival: "The vote of confidence does not give it to themselves. The vote of confidence gives it to the people. And it gives it openly and clearly, through the elections." [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If people really want a vote of confidence, if they claim a vote of confidence, then they also know the way: elections. And you ended up saying, "Behold, the poll, behold, and the bang." That is exactly what I ask, ladies and gentlemen, not a word more than Alexis Tsipras said in 2014! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I agree with you, Mr. Tsipras. Elections here and now. Here's the call, behold, and fuck! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u118	Good. Before I gave the floor to the Prime Minister who asked him, I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that... [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Why are you shouting? Don't yell? For two minutes the Prime Minister asked for the floor and has every right to take him. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u119	What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u120	Wrong, wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u121	Please. Please. Please be quiet. We're not going to have a problem at the meeting. I'm telling you. Because in the end the Chiefs will talk again. There's gonna be a second one. Don't go on. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the General School of Nea Artakis Evia. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u122	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Danielle, excuse me a minute. If you have written a speaker, i.e. if you're in the circles...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u124	Wait, Mr. Kutsuko, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u125	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u126	...you'll be expressed then.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u127	I just want a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u128	If you have not been written, you will be added to the list, because personal reference has been made to you. Not now, however, because personal reports are part of the debate. Either way, there was no excitement, Mr. Dannelly. If you haven't written, you'll be written, tell your opinion and your position. Now we can't. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u129	Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u130	But it's not a minute, because it'll cause concussions. Please! The political leaders and faces are mentioned, with their assessments. First of all, for a minute, the Prime Minister wants the floor. [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Please. Please. Stop hitting! What's wrong with you there? Doesn't the Prime Minister have the right for a minute to answer? What's wrong with you, you're telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u131	I request the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u132	Because you're asking for the floor, what kind of irritation is he? What kind of nervousness is that? Please. Please. You'll take the floor later, Mrs. Gennamas. I'll give you the floor later. Please! Immediately after you're a speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u133	Mr. President, I'm not going to...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u134	It's impossible!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u135	It's disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u136	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, please! It's not an amphitheater in here. Don't go on! Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u137	On a point of order...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u138	I run the procedure, not you. Okay? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u139	Not provided. There's a rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u140	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u141	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, I will not respond to any of the arguments put forward by Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u143	Now you want to rejoin the class as a parliamentary group arrest? Why are you doing this? You have a lot of nervousness for no reason. [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] What are you talking about? Please. Please, Prime Minister. Excuse me. [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Will you let me talk? If after Mrs. Gennamas speaks, as happened last time, will the Prime Minister for a moment make an intervention, will you shout? What are you talking about? Where are we? Where are we, and you're doing this? Have they happened before? Did it happen on your day? Please! [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] You have a nervousness that is impossible to understand. Impossible! [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Now what exactly are you doing? You blocking the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I would be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u145	Please, Mr President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u146	I'm not going to answer Mr. Mitsotakis. I won't do that. I'll do it at the end. I'll do it at the end of the process. I shall reply at the end of the procedure to Mr Mitsotakis. I only asked the floor for one thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u147	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u148	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, I'm revoking you to class. Did you realize I'm revoking you to class? Please. Please. Don't make me say get out of the hall! Nothing has been heard about your resignation, good or bad, so far. So don't be nervous.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, in less than a minute I shall respond to all the arguments of the Chief of Police in closing the procedure. [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] The only reason I asked for the floor - and please, respect it and listen to me for thirty seconds - is because I believe that the Chief of Police Response - and I want to believe unwisely - has fallen into a colossal force, not against the face, but against the Armed Forces. He compared the Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces, Vangelis Apostolakis, to the general of the junta Spandakis. This is a great insult to the democratic mind of the Armed Forces of the country and I ask it to withdraw! [[Upright SYRIZA MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] I do not allow you, Mr. Mitsotakis, to insult a man who has served with a high democratic mind since 1976... [[Upright SYRIZA MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] ...with a sense of responsibility the flag, the Armed Forces and democracy, with the general junta coup, the king's courtyard at that time, Spantidakis. The only comparison is that both come from Rethymnon. But you - because someone else wrote it to you - were telling us that Lambrakis is something we have forgotten and now you remember General Spantidakis, the coup, to compare him to Evangelos Apostolakis. It's a disgrace! [[Upright SYRIZA MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] It's a disgrace! Rescind! I do not allow you to insult the democratic mind of the armed forces of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Mitsotakis, please, you have the floor. [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] He's been called to recall! Do you understand what you're doing? Now you'll talk, Mrs. Gennamas! [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Mrs. Gennamas, you're about to go to Step for as long as you want to talk. Please! Mercy! Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u151	In your panic, Mr. Tsipras, you obviously didn't even understand what I said. The last one, I said, in action...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u152	It doesn't compare...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u153	..................................................................................................................................................................... A senior officer who took up a position of Minister of National Defence was indeed General Spantidakis. Why did I say that? Because no post-multiple government has violated the unambiguous rule of discrimination between military and political leadership. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why didn't they do that? You did it! I respect Admiral Apostolakis as Chief of HNDGS and as Officer. I think he made a big mistake accepting your proposal to become Minister of National Defence and I say it publicly. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] However, it was you, Mr Tsipras, and you should be aware of the great historical importance of this choice. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So don't move my finger and don't give me any suggestions about democratic opinions! [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] And tell us one more thing, which refers to you, the outgoing Minister of National Defence and the new Minister of National Defence. How much did it cost this show of fighters over camping to pay honor? [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] I wonder who? Mr. Kammenos who took the helicopter to Imia? Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u154	Please. The explanations have been given.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u155	This is the style and spirit of your authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u156	Here, Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u157	I accept the partial withdrawal of the peak against the face. But you must know, Mr. Mitsotakis... [[Applause lively and protracted from the wing of the Democratic Partnership of PASOK - DIMAR]] ...that the Armed Forces of our country are highly discreet and that on such issues you cannot play and create impressions, because the message of Admiral Apostolakis' choice in the position of Minister of National Defence... [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] ...is a strong message towards those who threaten the integrity and sovereignty of our country, a message that all Greeks should be - and will be - united. I'm sorry you didn't understand that, Mr. Mitsotakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u158	I will give the floor to Mrs Fofi Gennimata, President of the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, I would like the floor too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Danielle, to make it easier, I would ask you then to take the floor. Either way, it's a public debate. The same applies to Mr Theocharis personally mentioned. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, those who want to go away, let them go. Whoever's here, please sit down. [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Please, don't shout! Mrs. Gennamas, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, you have again managed to dismantle the House. You are desperately trying to tell the Greek people that in the political scene there are only two parties, there are allegedly two gladiators, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis. It's your last hope. I understand that from your hair you're getting caught in the state you're in. But no matter what you do, you won't make it! Be absolutely sure. Of course, once again the Prime Minister, after having taken the theater he wanted to do with the help of the President of Parliament, left the Chamber because he said - he thinks - what he should have said. It's not like that, though. Listen. We thought we'd seen everything. And where we thought we'd seen it all, we realize we haven't seen anything at all. Are there limits to ridicule? Obviously not, Mr. Tsipras. I believe you can hear me, even from the security of your office. Why are you completely ridiculed? Because, quite simply, after everything that happened on Sunday, you should have announced elections. Only the elections give an answer, they put an end to what we live in the place, they close their mouths for trade. But you do not want the Greek people to speak. And you know why? Because you're afraid of him! You're too afraid of what's going to come out of this canopy. You have even shown your great fear in here for the second time. Trying to cover everything you've been doing these days, you tried to like the Papademos Government with a government of "baby" and what you're trying to achieve these days in the Greek Parliament. Listen, Mr. Tsipras. The Papademu government was a government of national salvation, a national purpose, with an agreement of three parties. The first party to support it had a hundred fifty - four (154) MPs. He hadn't lost the declared one. It has absolutely nothing to do with the work that is currently being played in Parliament and Greece. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You do not know, of course, what 'consent' means. You sought it, however, once again, when you showed your fear when you were with your back on the wall in the summer of 2015, when the country was ready to find itself outside the European Union and to live the ruthless bankruptcy and find the parties of the Greek Parliament responsible for the Council of Political Heads under the President of the Republic, to keep the place coordinate within Europe on the front line of the European Union. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You are not playing democratically, Mr Tsipras, neither honestly nor clearly. And the homeland no longer tolerates the pragmatism you have directed together with Mr. Kammenos. And I want to say something else about what Mr Apostolakis has heard. It is a shame to hide behind the morality of this man and his offer to the army. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] It was your choice and you had to defend your own choice. But you don't dare do that either. And if in any case there was a serious national issue requiring this choice, you should come to this Chamber and immediately inform the Greek Parliament and the Greek people. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Typically, your co-operative with Mr. Kammenos was dismantled, a cooperative that has already done a great deal of damage in this place with lies, with taxis, with division of posts, with regularity, with behind-the-scenes arrangements. The resignation of Mr. Kammenos, after so many threats and pre-nominations, took place in the most convenient way, for Mr. Tsipras, time and the most beneficial, for Mr. Tsipras. Studyed work. 'They have spoken, agreed'. A marriage of love for power ends as it should in a marriage of interest: The thankful Prime Minister stands on the threshold of Maximos and says goodbye to the heroic soldier. It tells him a 'hot thanks' - it has been repeated today by this Step - and wishes him 'good power' in the Macedonian struggle. He practically proves his gratitude and generosity and leaves a dowry of those ministers and MPs he needs Mr. Tsipras to keep his Government alive. Half the owners and half the others on the ground. Hey, why should Mr. Kammenos also have a parliamentary group to continue his struggle from now on? All good burned up, like a movie! The so-called honest cooperation, which he spoke about earlier, continues, but how? With a new deception. Except the place doesn't take her. After all, we are all aware of their bourgeoisie over power. And their time ends. The condemnation of Greek citizens in the elections that are coming will be irreversible for both. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister is asking for a vote of confidence today. Logically, someone will say that after the partner left the government that secured the majority. But what government do you ask for a vote of confidence? Because I in the Helmets saw the same ministers who participated in the government who lost the declared. In fact, one of them also participated in the 'quarry' government of Mr Papademos, as Mr Tsipras said. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Does this not bother him, or has he asked for forgiveness and for a declaration of repentance, in order to make use of it, as does former ministers and current SYRIZA MPs? For what government, then, do you ask for a vote of confidence? You guys do everything. You are creating a top parliamentary process, the vote of confidence, and you are methodically undermining the principles and values of democracy. Mr Tsipras, you are asking for a vote of confidence, as you yourself have confessed, because you want to complete your policy and objectives. However, the declared will arise from the will of the people and not from the transcriptions. And I wonder: What does this government really have to do with the needs of the Greek people and with the upward trend that the country needs? Absolutely nothing. And we expressly state that we do not trust you, Mr Tsipras. We have no confidence in you to deal with national issues. We have seen what has happened in the Prespecies Agreement. You have had all the conditions to give a viable and definitive solution. You've had support from everywhere. There was never a better time than this. You did not manage to use it, because you just wanted to be the convenient, willing, useful to the requirements of the partners and not to the needs of Greece. That's why you closed a deal that instead of closing wounds opens up new ones, because it's just keeping the root of the pervertism alive. Of course we do not trust you, nor do we trust you, for the manipulations with Turkey that have escalated its challenges lately, nor for the defence of the interests of the family in Albania, which has been facing very serious problems all along. We do not trust you for the exit of Greece from the crisis and recovery of the economy. You have, quite simply, enclosed with your country's agreements with very high primary surpluses, overtaxation that kneeles businesses and households. You haven't been able to trigger growth. You haven't been able to bring investments. You have left the banks, and right now the Greek people are in despair and are looking to see where there is a mark of real hope. The worst thing, of course, is that you retreated into what all the previous governments refused and promised the public property in the supermarket, which, as all Greeks know, is not controlled by the Greek state. We do not trust you, because you deprive Greece of the potential to develop and create production and, above all, to the new generation of our country, which is increasingly forcing them to leave the place and seek foreign better life and prospects. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We don't trust you because you consciously degrade public education, school, university. Behind our children the possibility of having a quality education that will be their great passport for tomorrow. Of course, we have no confidence in you, because you have dismantled the National Health System and you have replaced the social state with the logic of the Right, the rationale of charity, the one we, for many years, have fought and built a strong social state in Greece at the time. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We have no confidence in you because your actions create a serious issue of democracy in the country, with a plan to depreciate and dismantle the parties that form the pillar of democracy. Because your constant methods of control of justice reach the limit of institutional diversion. They're acting next to you. They continue to operate with your tolerance and with your support of right-wing and origin power institutions. We have no confidence in you, because you cannot protect the life and property of the citizens. You tolerate, Prime Minister, violence, lawlessness, the unbaptised in the center of Athens. Of course, we have not forgotten and we will never forget the cynicism and indifference you have shown in what happened in Eye, which has resulted in so many human lives being lost and you even do what you did not know. We don't trust you either in handling immigration, because you close your eyes in Moria, but in the other refugee colleges, where humanity is being tested every day. It is Europe's shame and it has your signature. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And today you are coming here to ask Parliament for a white cheque to continue with this catastrophe. I must say that in one thing you are capable of, you run very quickly in the catechism, Mr. Tsipras. So you know that for us you are a minority government and our answer is unequivocally 'no'. Your state is being completed, Mr. Tsipras, in a few weeks, in a few months at most. And history will be next door to a white page of achievements, because your only feat, which is recognized internationally - I cannot say - and has your signature, is the word 'associated'. Nothing else you've done all these years. You have exterminated the people with taxation, humiliated him by betraying his hope, stealing his dreams, and now you are playing with fear as another sultan of the East. You found a people hurt, yes, but proud and you want to make him worshipped and redeemed. Praise, supposedly, the people. In his name you're supposed to do everything, but at the same time you actually despise him. You despise him when he protests, when he claims, when he shouts, when it hurts. How do you answer him? You're answering him with chemicals. Well, weren't you the ones who said you'd banish them or the retired ones yesterday to the teachers? No, this government, this short-term party motif called SYRIZA, cannot convince anyone that it is tomorrow's place, that it is the progressive response that the country needs. Listen. Many have fought for it, many have slandered it, many have reclaimed it, but few have been able to express it reliably, truly, and the Greek people know very well today especially who they are. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] PASOK, the main pillar of the Change Movement, is the party identified with popular strata and demand for change. For us, inequality has never been natural or expected, Mr. Mitsotakis. We have fought, claimed and succeeded in consolidating social justice in the country. The democratic party has always assumed roles in critical times, and that is exactly what will happen now, because the Change Movement will be leading the way out of the crisis. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] So leave the tricks and the beans, Mr. Tsipras, for the so-called progressive polo. It's not a flag of opportunity, it's not a power mechanism. Monday, Wednesday, Friday radical left. Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday 'washer' of the government period. On Sunday, half the people, the godfathers, go to church and the other half, social democracy and every day hard anti-popular right policy. That's who you are! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You have signed a contract with the most profound right of this place, the contract of extermination of the democratic party, the party founded by Eleftherios Venizelos and continued by Papastassiou, George Papandreou, Andreas Papandreou, Costas Simitis, George Papandreou, Evangelos Venizelos. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You are not just the best sponsor of Mr. Mitsotakis, but also the strategic partner of the Acro-right in Greece. And this is evidenced not only by your cooperation with Panos Kammenos, but also by other events, such as the fact that for four years it has not been saying that the trial of the Golden Dawn ends. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Like the fact that in July 2015 you allied with the most darkest circles of the church and the hardest religious organizations that supported "no" in Europe. Mr. Tsipras, you are not a reversal force, you are a destruction force. You are toxic, but you will not succeed, the Greek people will stand in the way of you. Kammenos is leaving, yes, but he leaves borrowed - not ideal - that, along with the poor Prespecies and the losers, he is taking over... Everyone understands their role from now on. However, governmental continuity with remnants and geologists only in new dead ends and new adventures can lead the country. That is why one is the solution. Get out of here now! Ladies and gentlemen, today it is more necessary than ever to overcome the division and toxicity generated by the transformation of political life into a mud arena, but also to defeat maintenance and populism in every hue. The solution for the country cannot be found on 'you leave to come'. A government strangled in chairs and a opposition that simply longs to replace it cannot serve national needs, simply reproduce the same deadlocks. So the issue is not the power games of Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos, nor the succession of this government by the New Democracy of Mr Mitsotakis. The issue is the radical change of course of this place. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The country is facing a very critical crossroads. One direction allows what we lived earlier and live every day, the blind political conflict without substance, for power is competing in here. No other policy is intended to apply the New Democracy of Mitsotakis to what Mr Tsipras is currently applying and which government emerges in the next few days with windstorms. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] This road, however, leads with mathematical accuracy to new adventures and new dead ends. The other way leads to wider understanding, and this road is the only safe way out of the crisis for the country's definitive exit. And this is the way we are proposing, the Change Movement, because beyond the theatrical celebrations for the end of the memorials it is clear that we still need road and hard work to be able to tell the Greeks that yes, we took our country back, we have sovereignty and we can truly ensure dignity in your life. And you all know that very well in here. This is the worst of all things, that while you know that you do not understand what the place needs, because after so many years in the crisis we have been so late, so much that it was accurate with these blips that SYRIZA and the New Democracy have not understood your responsibilities since the beginning, because we have been delayed, because we have never come to an agreement as a political system to find a program of Greek identity and property and to leave the stall. And even today you seem to have no idea. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Once again your priority is not the country, but who will be the next Prime Minister and how much power each one of you will hold in his parties. I am very sorry for this climate, for this level and for this inability of the political system to respond to the agony, particularly of the young children who are looking at us and waiting for all of us to say a word about them, a conversation that speaks to their souls, at their hearts. Wake up, finally, before it's too late for democracy in this place. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] It needs a government progressively with an agenda that will gain the country's lost credibility internally and externally. It takes a government that can trigger growth, what you haven't done for so many years. Why do we want this? Because if we motivate and keep the small and medium-sized Greek businesses that have endured all these years, we will ensure that people who work in them and we will create thousands of new jobs to stay here for our children to be able to work. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] They're not empty words. They are not empty words the "Grand Greece". Every word hides from behind a man, a home, an agony, a dream, a hope. We therefore want to put an end to overtaxation, because this overtaxation, which you have imposed, gentlemen of the government, has kneeled the scientists, professionals, farmers, all of them, that is to say, who produce and still hold Greece up, who have helped not to go bankrupt. And you're kneeling them as long as they can withstand your chairs. Are you happy? Can we all applaud you together? Can we say, "Bravo, have you done it?"? Do you think the Greek people don't know what the truth is? We want to decentralise the powers, because there must now be a revolution in that state. That was the big disadvantage. That's where we didn't make it in the years of postpopulation. So many attempts! If we don't do it now, we'll be worth our fortune. It takes revolution and it takes the first line of this effort to get the heretics and the perfect ones in, but not the best and best friends! End of those logics at last! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We want to rebuild the social state. We say 'no' to that logic of the pity of the Ministers. You cannot face the man, who is the weakest, who lives on the sidelines, who is excluded, who sees his world be lost, with the benefits you occasionally give him, just to hang his life out of your hands. They need lasting solutions, stable, serious, modern social state, which will make the most weaker to feel safe, to feel that democracy cares about him, because he will also respect it, so he will not question it tomorrow. Do you realize what we are at and what danger is there for democracy in Greece and throughout Europe? We want to ensure the independence of justice in order to put an end to the abuse of power. The Prime Minister, with his mandarins, cannot interfere with the decisions of a country's justice. And besides the fact that there is a serious issue of democracy and you feel that you may suddenly wake up and your country may be hostile to you because someone has put you in the eye, no serious investor will come to put his money and invest in a country in which he knows that his work, his effort, his living life, his agony can be criminalised tomorrow morning. We've been shooting at our feet with everything that's been happening in Greece over the last few years and a definitive end has to be put in place. And, of course, if we are to be able to achieve all this, we need a credible, progressive government with this plan to be able to stand up to the partners. And we can stand up when we have a plan, documentation, timetables, arguments, consultation and a strong parliamentary majority in order to change Mr Tsipras's commitments. Because we're not going anywhere with such high primary surpluses. We will simply grow and we will only strengthen the extreme right-wing, fascists and nationalists. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] This will be done if a strong government emerges from the next parliament, which will go to make a new agreement on the difficult conditions that Mr Tsipras agreed in the summer of 2015, who refused us to become a national negotiating team to change all these terms from then on, since 2015. We would have left all this behind, but Mr. Tsipras's priority was to control his Party, to expel his comrades, who helped him become Chief and then Prime Minister, to have a Party to do what he thinks in this place. Mr. Tsipras is still asleep in these logics. The stakes of the next elections are therefore much greater than the on-line prevalence of power. The Greeks will be invited to choose between "I" or "we", "both" or "country". I believe that the Greeks will make the great political overthrow and say: 'Yes, we want a strong movement of change and not a division and a new crisis'! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gennamas. I would ask you a long time before I give you the floor, Mr Michaloliakos, to speak for one or two minutes, Mr. Danelis and Mr. Theocharis, because they have already been referred to by the Prime Minister and by the President of the Police Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u163	He referred to me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Curublis, please! You realise that I am referring to Members who are not in the circle of speakers to take the floor. And they referred to today's and recent movements they have made. The references to you were after you made, and there was a relative debate about the ultimate past. It doesn't touch you and you know it very well. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. It is truly impressive how Mr Mitsotakis constantly confirms how genuinely European and liberal he is! Regarding his reference to my posting in the vote of confidence six months ago, I think that he is also impressively falsifying the truth, because he is well-known - and he saw the light of publicity at the time, Mr President - that my personal opinion, as this vote was directly related to the Macedonian, was that my Party to be consistent, had to abstain from this process. It wasn't accepted. To avoid creating problems in my Party, I followed the party line. But I explained when I said 'yes' to the vote requested by the New Democracy, with the exception of the Macedonian. This may not have been practical, but it was essential and political. And because, Mr President, my entire public path was always consistent in my principles and conscience, and in such a matter that is identifiable and conscientious it was impossible for me to do differently. I am very sorry, because I think that democracy requires another political culture and not the convenience of the micro-participatory exploitation of every moment. And because our society is confused, in anger, easy victim and easy prey to manipulate by the enemies of democracy and parliamentaryism, those who really believe in parliamentaryism must be extremely careful on these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u166	Mr Theocharis, please have the floor for a moment, even though there was no personal reference to your name. You understand. But since there was an insinuation, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u168	He wasn't personally mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u169	Yes, but he separated me from the other four MPs and therefore actually photographed me. The Prime Minister has insulted me, Mr President, for a change in the attitude of the Skopje. There is no change in attitude. I am democratically compiling, as I must, with the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, which is united and agitated against working on the issue of the division of the Greek people. In addition, Mr Tsipras forgets that I was elected with the opposition, I remained independent for two and a half years by making a consistent opposition and now I remain in opposition, unlike others, who may be claiming a position on the government. Therefore, instead of resigning Mr. Tsipras, he must not forget. And he must be indicted himself, because he shares Ministries on the right and the left, so that he can keep a little more in the chairs and empty the funds so that the next Prime Minister cannot govern.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u170	Good. That's extra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u171	I'm done. My condolences with Kyriakos Mitsotakis are based on our common principles and values and must respond to us on the basis of what values Mr Tsipras shares today. Because we see that something is being attempted without a historical precedent, that the country should be governed by a government that gathers MPs, who are being traded. I therefore ask Mr Tsipras for four years because he has not been able to give solutions to the problems of the Greek people. After all, even Bluberg says, "Always, there will be elections to see how the country will be governed". But it is not my calls, Mr President. The appeals of the Greek people are important.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u173	Because the Greek people are angry and the "151" will not protect you. So the Greek people and history will be fair and strict and will be brief. 'Good luck', then, to Mr Tsipras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u174	Thank you. However, I should like to say to you, Mr Theocharis, because perhaps it is also your verbal mistake: you are holding the same position, not because you said 'I am holding the same position'. You have the same position, if necessary, as regards the quality of the Presidencies Agreement and what the possibility is. From there on, because you are participating - you say - in a party that has its rules, you will have a different attitude now within this party. That is what you have explained in this regard, because these things are being recorded and they are important. In my opinion, the Prime Minister has also referred to this. He did not mention your course or did not mention anything else in your presence. Please, I invite Mr Michaloliakos, President of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u175	What does this intervention and observation mean by the President of Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u176	Whoever understood it, they understood it. You didn't understand it. The President of the Parliament, Mr Athanasios, is neither a wheelchair nor a neutralist. You understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u177	The President shall apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u178	Well, if...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u179	Excuse me, Mr. Michaloliaco. Institutionally, Mr. Athanasios, the President of the House is obliged to deal with certain issues, which are commonly admitted, such as what I said to you....
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u180	Advertise?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u181	I didn't interpret. Mr Theocharis has the mind and experience to understand it, because he said, "I am holding the same attitude." It holds the same position within the framework of the rules of the party that has joined us. His position on the press, which was open and clear, remains the same. Understood? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u182	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u183	Mr. President, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Athanasios, please very much. Here, Mr. Michaloliaco, you have the floor. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, with the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, we are divided into chaos political and ideological, but the new Member of Parliament has common principles in the New Democracy Parliamentary Group with Mr Mitsotakis, as a liberal, on the issue of Macedonia. You were in favor and you were in favour of a complex name. What's the difference? If one of you is not, let him go out and say it and back it up. And that will appear in the course of things. But, before that, we also had Mrs Gennimata, who had the courage as PASOK representative to say that you appointed every best friend - who you did - and the PASOK did not appoint. Twenty years he filled with a million civil servants in Greece. He billed the country, along with the New Democracy. And, of course, he also said about the wide popular strata which embrace the PASOK. To remember some of the representatives of these old populaces, like Aki Chohazopoulou, who was recently released, Giannos Papantoniou who is in prison. One - one sees the Simitis of his top ministers entering prison. However, both Sigite and Syriza are governed by the "Signite System" in New Democracy. And vis-à-vis the Prime Minister of the 'Imian Night', who said 'thank you' to the Americans, is consistent only the 'weak', the nationalists of the Golden Dawn. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] PASOK, the party of 'honesty', with Anthopoulos, its Deputy Minister, who was sentenced to ten years' imprisonment recently for loan sculpture, comes here and talks about a progressive governance, since we all know that porn they want to be in the next government. And, gentlemen of the New Democracy, enjoy your porn of honor. Rejoice in your cooperation with the PASOK of Tsohazopoulou, Papantoniou, Anthopoulos, Mandeli, Tsukatos. However, in order to ensure that what he said about the trial of the Golden Dawn, with courage, does not respect a process of justice, the representative, the President of the PASOK. PASOK is the KINAL, the Democratic Coalition, all of this is tricks. Names have a lot of burglars and frauds, they don't have the political parties. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Who made this beast, the monstrous process that the trial lasts so long? And what deal do we have with SYRIZA to delay the trial? What kind of decency are these? And, in any case, since we have cooperation, we should today give you a vote of confidence. But we won't give you a vote of confidence. We shall vote against the government, as will the New Democracy. Does it mean we have cooperation, gentlemen of the New Democracy? So why are you playing so thickly with propaganda? In fact, New Democracy and SYRIZA seek power and nothing else. And as far as the Golden Dawn is concerned, it only has cooperation with the peoples, nationalities and patriotic forces. And today it is spreading throughout Europe, powerfully, the power of nationalism. And you consider it a threat! You consider it a threat, we hope, the great hope of the Greeks! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The fat-cut New Democracy propaganda way recently appeared with a twitter of Georgios Kyrtsos, your chosen MEP, a former prominent Kyressos executive! It seems that someone who once was a Bolshevik does not forget it easily. He wrote, therefore, George Kyrchos: "If Tsipras has a democratic sensitivity - I question it - he must make two moves: to take the trial out of the fridge, in which he has been put and to have sentences before the Euro elections." We're talking about more than a hundred defense witnesses, about sixty-eight offenders who have to apologize, about a hundred lawyers who have to speak. And Kurchos wants sentence in three months! And, indeed, condemn in advance! If this is not an intervention in justice, what is it? The second question Mr Kyrchos asks for is that SYRIZA - as he says - finds a serious candidate for Athens, so that the Cassidiaris does not pass in the second round. You'll see that too! In the second round of the Municipality of Athens there will be Golden Dawn, in the capital of Greece, in the capital of Europe! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] But you have literally made us dizzy recently with the scandal revelations - we believe that there are scandals - on behalf of the New Democracy and PASOK. However, the Minister of Finance of the SYRIZA Government recently, in an interview he gave "News 247" and "Presidy Games", he said: "I am against the criminalization of political life. This only helps the Golden Dawn. Scandals and scandals only help the Golden Dawn." Are you sure, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you will proceed to clearance too? I'm afraid it'll be another fake clearance. This statement by the Minister, however, clearly shows that there is a force that resists political corruption, which seems to be spreading the political world as a whole. And it is no coincidence that in all political research, the Greek people show their disgrace for the parties and politicians. It is no coincidence that the Prime Minister is chosen by the Greek people in all polls "no one"! And in all of this, before I talked about what was before us to get to the present process, we had the Merkel visit and from the "go back", we went to the shields and kisses. That's all it was! From the "Kones of the Peoples, Americans", you became the most consistent followers of American politics. And within the framework of your Merkel visit and your democracy, which is not a democracy, is a "red junta" with co-concentrations, with all that is happening, we also had the ban on the concentration of Golden Dawn for the visit of Merkel and the exclusion of our offices from forces of MAT and from three cages, as well as from police forces. And we had a week of great interest, which could be an inspection number: The government in the air because of the Prespecies Agreement and on Monday was to meet the Minister of National Defence Kammenos with Prime Minister Tsipras. And the meeting was postponed. Why? Because Mr. Kammenos would go to a sheik's daughter's party in Saudi Arabia. If that's possible! The date's on Wednesday. On Wednesday, it is postponed because of Merkel visits and again on Friday, where it is postponed because it was the Skopje Parliament, and Mr Kammens hoped that the decision of the Skopje Parliament would be negative and the Ambassadors' agreement would not come. If Mr Kammenos really wanted to stop the Prespecies Agreement, he had to move from the first moves of the SYRIZA Government and of the Minister then Kotzia to go to the President of the Republic to say that he would withdraw confidence in the government and that the government would fall. He didn't. Now what he does doesn't convince anyone. And we have reached the famous divorce and today's vote of confidence, where notice what majority you will have. You will have a hundred and forty-four Members elected with SYRIZA, you will have a MP elected with the Central Association, three MPs elected with the ANELs, one MP with the Potami and one MEP from the New Democracy. We're talking about a government, Frankenstein, for a majority of Frankenstein. Such political pulp, so heterosexual, had never appeared. And since we are talking about all of this, and the New Democracy of Fire says things against us, I will remind her: it is your child, Mr. Kammenos, your child is Mrs. Papacosta, your child is the career of politics and everyone going wherever he is, unregulated, in order to serve his personal interests. But it is also a sign of the political life of the country, because this in the 1950s would not happen. In the 1960s, when it happened, a popular unprecedented unprecedented turmoil was created. Today, it's not running chestnut! There is nothing to go from New Democracy to SYRIZA The universe has been humiliated in political life! And that's why you're all guilty, all parties, except the Golden Dawn standing across the street! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] So Mr Mitsotakis and his recent interview - just yesterday - came out in the question of whether he would pursue wider cooperation, he said: "There are no powers more right than New Democracy entering the House. I am not referring, of course, to the Golden Dawn. It is a vulgar, non-democratic, party." Reply: There are powers more to the right than New Democracy and Parliament and outside the House, to the people. There's the People's Right, the Golden Dawn. Because the New Democracy is no longer a popular party, nor is it a right one. And how can they be right with Tatsopoulos and aligned with every one of the JRC? Of course, within all of this, within the political oramad, which has been created, we see things unprecedented. I am very impressed by the fact that in the newspaper "Kathimerini" Nikolaos Merzos, once in favour of Macedonia's issue, former editor of the "Greek North", for those who know political history, came to write in favour of the Prespecies Agreement and said: "The so-called Macedonian people are multinational: Slaves Macedonians, Albanians, Bulgarians, Serbs, Roma, Bosniaks, Turks and Vlachs". Did you hear that? Is there a Vlach minority in Greece? Is there a Vlach Ethnic? The Vlachs are pure Greeks. In addition, he does not say a word, nor does the New Democracy, nor anyone - except, once again, from the Golden Dawn - say that in Skopje they live Greeks, hundreds of thousands of Greeks, including, of course, Vlachs. And Merjos refers to his article, both on language issues and on issues of nationality. Of course, it takes the place of the Government, unfortunately, but it states that since 2007 all Greek parties have been in favour of geographical identification, which would contain the term "Macedonia". Therefore, the gentlemen of the New Democracy, who are against the complex name, of whatever name it is called "Macedonia", will do well to separate their position from the New Democracy, because the New Democracy believes others, as Merjos says here. As far as citizenship is concerned, it is a funny game between the words 'ethnicity' and 'nationality', since both of these words in the 'Great Dictionary of English' of the University of Cambridge clearly define that they relate to race, concern ethnicity. But the major is the name. And in the name of the New Democracy has no clear position, as I shall mention next. We had a specific interview with the President of the New Democracy on 20 July 2018 in the newspaper "Süddeutsche Zeitung", who responded to the issue of the name of Skopje, said: "I have clearly said that I do not like this agreement, but I also say that I will respect it as an obligation of the country, since it will be ratified by the Greek Parliament. But our own New Democracy will vote 'v.' What does Mr. Mitsotakis just say to us? That because it will be ratified by this House - if it is ratified, which I hope will not be ratified and we will vote against - then it is committed. He called for and assistance from a professor or assistant - I do not remember - of the International Law, which is also mentioned for a State of the New Democracy, who wrote an article in "KATHMERINA" and said in his article that the Government cannot denounce the Ambassadors' Agreement on the basis of the 1969 Vienna Treaty "outside the law of the Treaties". Courgettes with the oregano! Since 1969 the Soviet Union has been dissolved and ten states have been founded, civilized in Yugoslavia and seven states have been founded, Germany has become signs and monsters despite the Treaty of Vienna. Will the New Democracy hide behind the 1969 Vienna Treaty to accept the complex name? But also in substance, here is the text of the Prespecies Agreement, which, in Article 13, clearly states: "Taking into account the fact that the second Contracting Party", i.e. Skopje, "is a closed state, the Contracting Parties will be guided by the relevant provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which will have practical application", which means that we are giving way to the sea in the state of Skopje, and this is a crucial factor in our national independence. It is an issue that directly touches our national independence and therefore requires the ratification of the Agreement to be ratified by eighty-eight votes. And I ask the New Democracy publicly: will it use this argument as a government to denounce the Ambassadors' Agreement? And of course we have from the same Agreement and Article 18, which says that "From the entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties will be directed towards their relations with the provisions of the 1959 bilateral agreements with Yugoslavia". We're talking about signs and monsters! However, the most characteristic of all of this Agreement, which is a reason for nullity and if the Government of SYRIZA would have stopped all proceedings directly, is the paragraph 4 of Article 1 which states: ‘The second part’, i.e. Skopje, ‘will complete the constitutional amendments by the end of 2018’. These constitutional reforms were supplemented on 12 January 2019. The state of Skopje has violated the Prespecies Agreement. So you have reason to denounce it. Will you report her? Do you commit? We don't see it. In addition to the motion of censure tabled by the New Democracy on 14-6-2018, which we voted in favour of, where it said about the Prespecies Agreement: "The announcement of the Agreement with the Macedonian Government is the drop that breaks out of the glass of indignation of the Greek people. This agreement meets the opposition of the vast majority of the Greeks. In addition, it has not even been approved by the Ministerial Council. It is a harmful agreement on national interests. Recognizes supposedly "Macedonian" ethnicity and language for our northern neighbours and does not say a word about the issue of the name. And on this point, the New Democracy should stop saying half the truths and clarifying: Does it commit to canceling the Ambassadors' agreement? Does he commit to denying any composite name containing the term ‘Macedonia’? He doesn't commit, we haven't heard anything about this thing. And that is why in the bulwark of the national games there is a force that says 'no compromise for our Macedonia!' And it's Golden Dawn. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] After all, at the very first moment, without hesitation, when we addressed a letter to both the United Nations, all the Members of the Golden Dawn and all the international organizations, which came to the conclusion that 'for these reasons the Skopje Agreement, signed, violates the popular sovereignty and constitution of the country and opposes the national interest. And if and as long as the country elects a government under the Golden Dawn, that government will terminate the Agreement immediately." Is it utopia, dream, romance? Are you smiling? Don't smile, gentlemen of SYRIZA, because you were forty years at 4%. The time of the nationalists is coming. The Golden Dawn time is coming and then there will be no state on our northern border with the name Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u186	Thank you. The process will continue with the President of the Communist Party of Greece. Then he will speak, if he wishes, President Theodorakis and then also if he wishes, Mr Leventis. Mr. Kammenos has said he will speak tomorrow. I call on Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas, President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece to step up the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate in the House in which the government seeks a vote of confidence is nothing but the conclusion of the bargains of the previous days between the government partners, SYRIZA and the ANELs, and more specifically between Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos. Of course this development suits both of you, Mr Tsipras, because it enables you, on the one hand, to save your government with the votes of the ANEL MPs and, on the other hand, your former partner, Mr Kammenos, to maintain his group's parliamentary group, even though he is resisting a policy that has not just been backed, but has also been the lead in its implementation over the past period. And regardless of the outcome of tomorrow's vote in the House and what will eventually be the new potential companions of Mr Tsipras, the crucial issue is ultimately the people themselves to vote against this government, and that will do so also through their daily struggles, but also in the forthcoming elections, both in the European elections and in the local and regional elections, the people will vote against a government that will continue the same barbaric, anti-plural and dangerous policy as a follow-up to the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. That is why Mr Tsipras calls for a vote of confidence in order, as he said, that his government should complete its work, that it closes its unfinished business. Alas! Besides, the Greek people know very well now and recognizes you the dirty work you have done on behalf of the big capital, on behalf of Trump, on behalf of Merkel and the other strong men of our people, at least at this stage. And we understand that you want to complete it. You are only very consistent with this and that is why all these sworn enemies of the Greek people support you in every way. And what didn't you say? What can the country take its leading role in the Balkans? What to ensure through the alliances - the twilight alliances - its steady course. What to continue to be a pillar of stability and security in the south-eastern Mediterranean. Now what Mr Tsipras and the SYRIZA Government mean is another priest gospel. What is true is that the JRC has told you a long time ago, that your Government has taken on an important role for the dangerous plans of the United States of America and NATO, claiming a share on behalf of some domestic bourgeoisie. We do not hear what you are saying, of course, for the first time. We have also heard it from the Côte d'Ivoire government before, when we contributed to the bombing of Yugoslavia. It was said by all those who today are running out at the arranged events for your so - called progressive fronts. We see you in everyday life. Progress runs out of your balls, as well as the previous ones! This is the infamous recovery of the government's leading role in the criminal designs of the Imperialist organisations of NATO and the European Union, which endanger the Greek people. When we talk about a share of sharing, the workers who are listening to us can understand that we are talking about the profit fields that will open up for some monopolistic groups in the region, because for the permanent workers they are still writing zero in the clay. The agreement you signed, Mr Tsipras, with Mr Zaev is a key aspect of the overall US planning in the region which you and Mr Kammenos have served with very consistent consistency. Together you turned the country into a vast naval camp from Alexandroupolis to Crete, with the extension of the Souda base, transfer drones to Larissa, creation of a base for American helicopters in Alexandroupolis. Even the transfer of special weapons, including nuclear weapons, you're planning on Araxos. Mr. Kammenos, on behalf of your own government, has signed all the decisions of NATO defence ministers which are also war preparations for Russia. On behalf of the Government, he supervised the naval war exercises with the participation of the Greek Armed Forces. Of course, for all of this, for the country's most active involvement in NATO's, the United States of America's dangerous plans, no controversy, no fight is taking place between Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis, nor, of course, between their executives who don't miss a chance to be grabbed to "play" the evening news reports with everything important. Because these upcoming NATO plans do not question either the New Democracy or those who fish in the cloudy waters of reactionary nationalism, fascism, playing the game of imperialist centres. There's a full match and a deal. Did anyone hear any arguments between the SYRIZA MPs and the New Democracy MPs, but also other parties, why does the government give 2% of GDP, or EUR 4 billion every year for naval equipment that has nothing to do with the country's defence, but only with aggressive plans by the Americans and NATO, at the same time that our people have been suffering for so many years? No, of course not. Jelly for all this. The real reason New Democracy and its executives are yelling is because SYRIZA has taken the bite out of her mouth, because she literally implements what she didn't get to do. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras told us before that the Prespecies Agreement was the second largest achievement of his Government after leaving the memoranda. Of course, he rehearsed to tell Merkel before he met her, and of course he repeated them, and then he said it today. Of course, Merkel gave him a vote of confidence. Alas! So, how is it possible now to ask at least those who still say 'go back' to the essence of their policy, of course not the election balconies, as Mr Tsipras did at the time, and the mockery of voters who, of course, listened to people with good will and believed in what he said? You consider your achievement to be a shameful agreement that has broadly signed the United States of America, NATO, the other forces that are seeking the neighbouring country to join the Natian war machine only to cut the fora in Russian, Chinese and other foreign capitals in the Western Balkans. The text of the Prespecies Agreement speaks clearly of ratification by the Greek Parliament of the Protocol of Integration of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in NATO. This is the essence of the Agreement and the solution of the great pendingness you are actually enthusiastic about, gentlemen of SYRIZA. You consider an agreement to be a catapult against the interests and the Greek people and also the people of the neighbouring country and all the peoples of the Balkans to be achieved, because it strengthens in the Balkans the murder mechanism of NATO, which is being burdened with dozens of anti-Hallian designs and interventions, with border changes and the blood flow of peoples. You consider an agreement that, despite all the compromises on both sides, not only does not put an end to algorithmism, but also to the wording, the notion and the various points to which they refer, leaves them open for future use, of course, in line with the interests of all those who move the yarns, their various interests, giving air to the sails of nationalism, and of all parties. So, after all, the well-known "divided and ruled". All of you here, from the co-pilots to the present SYRIZA - ANEL, the gentlemen of the New Democracy, to the rest of the urban arch to the fascist, Nazi Golden Dawn, are responsible for why the people's attention is wrongly found in the nomenclature. At the same time, of course, the essential issues that the JRC raises today, but also the wider folk forces, such as the strengthening of NATO, the risk of developments as a whole, which undermine the future of the peoples of the Balkans, are all trying to hide them from the Greek people. And leave what you know about stability and security in the south-eastern Mediterranean. We've been told before. You know very well that NATO, the European Union is not a real guarantee of peace and security. These are the ones who started the vicious cycle of border change in previous years, now, today in Kosovo, pushing things from 1st January 2019 to the establishment of the "Great Albania" that will be under way in their designs, at the expense of all peoples, and the Greek and Albanian people's neighbours. American and naval bases are not built to protect our country and our borders, but to act as war bastions, interventions, to protect interests, too, of energy collosses. But they will turn Greece into a real magnet of new possible economic policies even of military attacks. After all, the participation of our country over the years in NATO and the European Union, the presence of the bases in Greece, not only did not prevent, but also exacerbated Turkish aggression, which challenged our key sovereign rights in the Aegean and, of course, did not prevent the occupation of 40% of Cyprus that is going on to date. NATO does not recognise a border in the Aegean. It considers it a single operational area. He plays the role of Pontius Pilate in all Greek-Turkish differences. None of your alliances have stopped the provocative attitude of Turkey's ruling class. Do you understand, Mr. Tsipras, gentlemen of the SYRIZA Government, why is it challenged to speak of achievement when you refer to the Prespecies Agreement? So don't tell the Greek people who you yourself drugize their future. This is what you keep telling at your meetings with your partners and they give you no contraction above. For these reasons, the JRC is voting against the Tsipras Zaev Agreement. For these reasons, it defends solidarity, the common struggle of the peoples against nationalism, against alutism, against the planning of the US and NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras also told us that he wants to renew the vote of confidence, because he has very important challenges ahead of him. Repeat all this known for restoring normality, supporting society, the weakest, etc. In fact, he told us that his cause is the economy. Of course, Mr Tsipras, but also others in here - not to blame any of the other parties - when they talk about economy, they are talking about an economy whose main indicators are only the profitability and competitiveness of monopolies, and that is, of course, the well-known and unexplained capitalist economy of exploitation and injustice. We will not, therefore, present to you today the elements of profitability. We read them, we study them, you know them and you, we know them, we all know them. We will, however, give you certain elements relating to the economy of the working people, which are relentless and put every man on his counter. 66.3% have increased over the last three years, with late tax debts being faced with forced recovery measures. The mass of fresh dues during this month was launched by 850 million euros and a total of nine months reached about 9.7 billion euros. The debtors, who may be forced to recover, that is to say, only five of their enforcement, are close to two million. Actually, right now, it's a million eight hundred thousand people. 31.4% of workers work in part-time or rotating employment. In 2018 one out of five employees worked in flexible forms of employment, from one out of ten in 2013. 57.41% of new jobs are with part-time and rotating employment contracts. The 2019 budget provides for more than EUR 1 billion for popular strata, while at the same time reducing taxation on large capital and its profits. And that's just some of the evidence. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, your propaganda on positive measures that remain to be implemented in the few months remaining until the end of your government service is already ash in the eyes of the people. Of course, the Greek people know very well that even these few, the "flying" would not be given if there were no struggles for the working people, if there were no decisive contribution, the pressure of the JRC. But not only do these semimeters close the memorial wounds - as the government has said today - but they do not even block the further opening up of these wounds. It is only the return of a very small part of the huge robbery to the detriment of the Greek people, which is continuing and escalating. This also shows the maintenance of the Memorandumary Laws and the bloody surpluses and the Sufficient Commission and the increase in outstanding debts and seizures and the intensity of tax burdens and the generalization of part-time work, the restriction of protection of first home, the acceleration of auctions, the new prerogatives to big capital and so many others. The most famous capitalist development, in which all of you swear, may have returned even weakly in the past two years, even with great precariousness, but have not returned to the pockets of the workers, the pensioners, the huge losses they have had in the years of the crisis or even the least. The exact opposite: The perpetuation and escalation of the work jungle, tax escalation, degradation and even human life-critical social services and infrastructure is the prerequisite for your own development. And that's what you all swear on. This policy is consistently served by you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, as well as by the New Democracy and other parties. You are ready at all times to sacrifice popular rights, labour rights, in order to ensure the profits of the few. And this strategy of convergence you are trying to hide, setting up polluting dilemmas, such as the old - sprinkled by many years - of the old and deep PASOKs, as we remember, on progress on one hand and maintenance on the other. After all, your so-called progressive forehead, Mr. Tsipras, includes persons who in recent years have been distinguished as leading ministers and government representatives of the New Democracy, PASOK with rich anti-communal work, by well-known anti-communist journalists to compilers of 'terrorism', while others have been members of the coalition, of course, of your own party, of the old coalition, who have wandered into PASOK, in Potami, in DIMAR and others, have now ended up again in SYRIZA of amoralism, turbulence, commemorative policy, so as not to talk about the MPs of the ANELs, who after finally managed to put you on the tracks of the United States train, as just yesterday your government partner, now follows you, as it seems, as a body of your own. So let us see what is really progress for the people and youth, because progress is certainly not a construction, a resumption of a corrupt political system, which has lost credibility to the people. Progress is to be capable of taking advantage of any difficulty, any rift, which instability of the barbaric and corrupt system, in order to break the anti-grassroots work together, to put obstacles, to earn time for organising the counter-attack of the popular movement, so that the people can put their true seal on the developments. Progress is to raise the popular question and dissatisfaction with the rotten urban political system, which all of you from various points in here are serving. Real progress is the people living on the basis of their modern needs, the possibilities created by science, technology and labour productivity. Progress for the people is the overthrow of the monumental and anti-popular arsenal, in order for workers to recover their economic losses, their income, to satisfy modern popular needs. Truly modern is that all employees have a permanent and stable job, free education, health, welfare, enjoy the huge wealth they only produce. Progress is to release the country from the imperialist chains and the deadly plans of imperialist alliances and organizations. Because, after all, the movement of a world to extreme right-wing reaction parties is not as spontaneous as some of you want to present it. Behind these parties there are some centers of the system, parts of capitalist property and power, even some embassies in a number of countries, which at this stage invest in reactionary nationalism, economic protectionism, the search for other alliances, to halt the deterioration of their position, namely the competitiveness of their own monopolistic groups. This is what Brexit in Britain shows and the rise in Euroscepticism in a number of countries, such as France, Italy, the election of Trumps in the USA and elsewhere. The problem is that such forces, which appear with a pollen, with a superficial dynamism and intense populism, play their part only to encroach on popular indignation, the discontent that is growing in all countries and Greece because of the policy of both the so-called 'right neoliberal governments' and the so-called 'left social democratic forces'. Such extreme right-wing fascist forces are increasing their influence and because of the European Union's own policy, the unscrupulous equilibrium of fascism and communism, which all friends together, Merkel and McCron, Salvini and Orban, at a time in Brussels, are stumbling. Real opponents of fascism, the extreme right cannot be those who have become signifiers of imperialist designs, who have sprinkled and continue to sow the poison of division, of racism among the peoples. They cannot be opponents of fascism, those who only show Lepen or Orban, and at the same time become Trump's best friends, those who collide four years with Kammenos, as well as those who resurrect the bankrupt theory and fair stories about what is allegedly a just philosophical European Union, which is not in fact nor will ever exist in the context of capitalist barbarism. They cannot be opponents of fascism, state authoritarianism, workers, teachers, because they are struggling, they are even injured by MPs with chemical and cut-shine shells, hitting blindly, endangering the excitement, even the lives of our fellow people, such as the recently MP of our party Yiannis Delis in the course of teachers. Only to remember what the current government majority Members of Parliament were saying, when they were in the opposition, about such attacks, and that is enough, even for their conscience and for all those who are listening to us and who are still fighting from day to day at the workplaces, schools, schools, villages and cities of our country. Such progressive alliances that exercise anti-grassroots policies, as you see them and confess them constantly, in the name of progress and the left, are not a front to fascism. They're barely feeding him. And listen well to what we're talking about. We have said so many times, but in front of us you will find them, you will also find them, but most importantly the Greek people will find them, and that is why we care first of all. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the bazaars aren't over. They will continue not only until Wednesday night, but then. And you know that, everyone knows that, and the Greek people, who don't know directly or have enough information, are refreshed as well. Members' transfer from one party to another, the reordering of the political scene, which is under way, proves, in addition to the debacle of some, that the differences between you and your parties are so small, because your shocks in strategic, big, life-critical issues are very great. With the exception of the JRC, moving here from one party to another is now very easy in this composition of the House of the last four years. One look at the House, which emerged from the elections and how the three hundred to date ended, will find that the only stable party is the KIC, and that is an additional criterion for the people who must take it seriously. And the JRC is stable, precisely because it is firmly committed to popular interests, stable against political games, against the corruption of the rulers, against all kinds of turbulence. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] We and on the occasion of today's debate are calling on the Greek people to think: Are we going to continue on the same path that has proved to bring new suffering, disasters, or are we going to fight massively, decisively, forcefully everywhere, so that ultimately this rotten, exploitable system can be radically changed? That is why we tell him not to seek individual differences between parties of the same end, but to make the real difference this time with a stronger JRC, in order to strengthen precisely the claim, hope, the objective of real, radical overthrow. For all these reasons, therefore, we say 'no'. We do not give a vote of confidence to Mr. Tsipras' government, to the SYRIZA government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u188	Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u189	I want - and let me begin by addressing Mr Dannelly. Mr Dannelly, what you're doing is not a crime, it's something worse: it's wrong. In crime there may be passion, there may be instinct, there may be indiscretion. In the wrong, however, there is thought, there is study, there is calculation. And why this decision? Before I try to answer this question, I would like to say a few words about the Potami, because some things have been misunderstood in the public debate on the River. Potami is a party that tries to be different from the others. Most of what they're accusing us of, that we don't have organisations, that we have volunteers, and we don't have members, they're not our weaknesses. They're conscious choices. Consciously, the Potami did not set up party mechanisms with seconded civil servants. We also have the right to fill with seconded employees throughout the country, all the cities, and we don't. Consciously the Potami did not open offices all over the country, does not collect requests and requests. Consciously, Potami did not violate electoral law, did not put up with posters and spent no credit and nourishment. And if you want anything personal, consciously in the only offices we have in Sevastopol, my door is always open. And I don't say it transportly, I literally say it. So we wanted to make a party otherwise, open, modern, refreshmentist, and I think we did it. The leadership that will rise as a heavy hand over executives and members was never our model, my model. In a complex world where everything is constantly being reviewed, we are of the opinion that executives can and must have their personal views and even publicly support their opposing views. It's happening everywhere. Why shouldn't it happen to the parties? Potami, therefore, has tried - and I think it has succeeded - to become the modern opposition against the sterile opposition, a party which is not afraid to speak, to reconcile, to discuss. We voted and gave life to legislation that would not pass without us, in particular laws that broaden individual rights, the environment and its protection, the privatizations. There have even been times when our Members have not voted for a single vote, but this has also been permitted in our own movement. The red line, however, was one, that we do not give a vote of confidence to the government. He said on several occasions that the Political Council had said so in many different circumstances, the Group of Parliament unanimously - all the Members - and recently confirmed it and our conference - that the Potami remains in Anti-Policy and is not suddenly converted into a Co-population, is not merged with anyone, does not take the day off of Kammenos and does not reward the mistakes of so many years. And I will repeat that in this decision we were all in agreement until yesterday in the parliamentary group, not all of us with the same intensity, but all of us agree. And suddenly a Member of Parliament comes out and says: 'I am voting for the government'. Did you ask the Lord? Elsa, Zacharula, Panagiotis, Kostis, all these volunteers who participate in the organs, at conferences, you ask them? Perhaps it is the opportunity to say something else, because here on the river we are insisting on the term 'employer'. We want to point out that we do not want to expect any staff from the Potami, no wages, no public posts, no facilities, just - by following Churchill's old advice - blood, hardship, tears and sweat. So the decision, Mr Dannelly, to vote for the government is not an elevation of politics. It's the opposite of politics. ‘Have your Member been purchased?’. I want to be categorical here too. No, he wasn't bought, he didn't buy any money, he didn't even haggle a chair. I'm sure of that, but that doesn't make his mistake any less. In a constant ego outburst, he's been putting on every day in the last few days, above all, his I want. His assessment, his opinion, his idea were superior to the assessments, opinions, ideas of everyone else. One will say to me: 'Well, but what does it have to do with the vote of confidence?' They do. What MPs we have, what parties we have, what parliament we have and, finally, what government we have is the issue that has to deal with these two days, because - let me - Spyros Danelis is not alone and is not the only one. It's also Photilas, it's Barriot, it's Ahmet, it's Marcus, it's Theocharis. I am referring to those who have left the river and not to all the others who have changed parties in recent months. There's a terrible coincidence here. Everyone goes to larger parties and there is no one, one so for a sample, to say: 'My conscience right now leads me to leave my big party and go to a smaller party'. It seems that consciousness works on quantitative criteria and only activated when your party is small and the next position is great. I have heard the President of the New Democracy, which makes me the honour of all the Heads of State to be in the Chamber, to speak of the government of a quarrel and to express a strong applause from the Members of the New Democracy. I wonder, however, whether the government of a quartz, if this motto, was applauded by the Members who in recent months left the other parties and went to New Democracy. I would like to ask Mrs Gennamas - who is not here - who is referring to a government with remnants, with gyroologists, whether these designations are also for Mr Barriotta, Mr Ahmet, Mr Carras. Unless the descriptions are valid only if the gyroists are the destination of SYRIZA and when they come to our own parties, they are purified. There is also an additional question, which - let me say - is annoying, but it is important. Are all these talk about perpetrators, remnants, the "quark" government, also applauded by all those who are planning these moves? Because, obviously, a Member does not go through the hallway of Parliament, he sees a light open and enters. Someone's thinking about it, someone's planning it, someone's haggling it, and someone's realizing it. So today's catastrophe of Mr. Tsipras has his story. This is how old parties are concerned, unfortunately. The dismay of majority voting by Members, who have not received the approval of the people, is unfortunately a burden - I say the word again - most of the Greek Parliament. And, obviously, Mr. Tsipras ended it. He had provided written samples with Ms Papakostas who left parliamentarians to become Minister and Ms. Megalo-Economist. Today, Mr. Tsipras seeks another five. Watch out, not five who'll agree to a bill, on a deal, but five who'll give him a white check to keep running. With this morality, however, which is the worst rewarded by the Greek Prime Minister, the country is not going anywhere. The transcriptions "Monday elsewhere, Tuesday here" are not even allowed in football, wild football. You can't play with one team on Sunday in the championship and Wednesday in the cup playing with another. In the House, however, it does. Four years you've fought amoracism, populism, you're talking about it, and when it comes to explaining time, you're giving a vote of confidence. That's what I'm talking about. A burdensome element is - look, because we have probably forgotten - that all this is happening in a parliament, which has been formed with MPs elected with a list and not a cross, because I remind you that the September 2015 elections were held on a list. The parties have decided who will be Members of Parliament, and today we have twenty Members who play music chairs. We must not allow a Member to change a parliamentary group during a term of office. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] SYRIZA's partners, let me. Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u190	Then why did you take him?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u191	Listen to me and we'll listen to you in the hours left. SYRIZA's partners, your statutes as far as I know - be careful - go even further. The statutes of the SYRIZA state that the Member who does not vote for the party line automatically delivers his seat. Obviously, because in Greece we are, it is the old neo-Greek who says "ours and ours". What are we talking about, though? We're talking about giving the government a vote of confidence. It's obvious that we won't. We are voting against the government because it has failed in most of the 'SOS chapters' of the policy. The party continues to perpetuate in public administration. The institutions of justice and the independent authorities are affected by constant interventions. Education lives under the boot of ideas. The security in the neighborhood is an empty letter, not to mention an empty section that's more embodied. And be careful, I'm talking about what doesn't require money, but it requires will, because we don't want money to stop policemen eating wood in Patisian from various hoods protecting drug dealers and using after the university shelter. We don't want any money. We want to. We do not want money for the dignity of the ministries and the independent authorities. We do not want money to connect our schools to the labour market, not to be afraid and to stop producing unemployed people with degrees. We do not want money for the development of education and in areas outside the restricted definition of ideological policies. We don't want money to vote on the children who left the years of the crisis. We don't want money for all this. We want brains. There must be a will and there is no. Obviously, at the same time, there is a demand for fairer taxation, for fewer contributions, and citizens are still angry. We all know, because taxes are high, wages are low. The bureaucracy and partitioning chokes every creative action. And that is not what the current government is answering. Her model is the old model. We want a society in which no one will need a party push or public relations or property. But we will need to try, work and help from a state that will keep the window of opportunity open. So I blame Alexis Tsipras. The way he chose is wrong. Mr Kammenos' behaviour has forced his decisions to be made earlier. But Mr. Tsipras wants to play in a duplicate table at the end: for the left-wing SYRIZA - let me accept this, although Mr. Lykoudis has expressed many objections to the definition of the term 'left' - and to the far-right ANELs. That's the game. This was the double tableau: for both civilized and sprayed. Government for all tastes! I hear some people say: "But if Mr. Tsipras does not take a vote of confidence, how will he conclude what he says? How will the problem be solved with our neighbouring country? How are we going to change the Constitution?" These are the dilemmas. Be careful, in an older successful advertising spot a small Alexis appeared with his left hand broken. A gentleman next door gave him the promise that he'll teach him how to write with the right. And they laughed at SYRIZA with Mr. Kammenos's spot. Is that how you understand the role of Prime Minister? Today with the left hand, yesterday with the right, tomorrow with a loan arm? What about the brain? What's the brain doing? Does it accumulate mistakes that in order to correct some people have to sacrifice parties and - more often something higher - their dignity, their past, their promises? We - you'll understand - we're not willing. We're not giving you a vote of confidence. We will insist that the country needs a major change. We should write new pages and not copy the worst old ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the High School of Stylida. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u193	We welcome the President-in-Office, the Members and the ladies and gentlemen who are in the Chamber and the ladies and gentlemen. For ten days before Parliament decided to give new confidence, the SYRIZA ministers were on the channels and said that there can be a government of tolerance and a minority government and that the Constitution allows it. This was the view of Mr Skourletis and many Syriza officials that there is this solution, tolerant government or minority. However, George Cassimatis, the professor of Constitutional Law, the most old and approved, came out, and said that according to the drafting report of the 1975 Constitution, because the essential articles of the Constitution of 1975 we are implementing, the secondary ones have changed, the capitals of the form of the constitution have remained as they have since '75; it is always essential that the Prime Minister has the number of fifty of a Member of Parliament. In history there has never been a government with less than a hundred and fifty Members. The late Constantine Mitsotakis, who resigned in 1993, did not resign because he was so sensitive, but because he could not remain with a hundred and fifty MPs when Spicilidis left him. He couldn't stay. It would be a diversion. Mr. Cassimatis explained it on television. Because constitutionalists have begun and become party leaders and according to what party everyone is expresses opinions: "The Constitution says that with a hundred and twenty MPs you can sit" and "at present you can sit" and various such madness. Now imagine Greece having a Prime Minister with a hundred and twenty Members. "Spain has one too," he says. There are some theories developing toward paranoia. Towards the paranoia were all the theories that developed. The government has now recently developed a theory that it has good bills in front of it: for the hundred and twenty instalments, for borrowers, for insurance contributions or for reducing tax rates, etc. And I wonder: When did these possibilities come about? I mean, for four years we have been squeezing a people out so that we can now give him what? Life kiss? What can we provide to this people? And why did we undone him if it wasn't such a need? That looks like another madness. We have exhausted the tolerances of one people and we are coming now and say for a hundred twenty instalments, one, the other and the promises. What's the matter, actually? There's a sweater outfit going on. That's what's happening. And strangers are already afraid that, when trying to vote, we might have a sweater blow. But it is not honest with society for four years to flick it and drain it and come in the shortest time, treat it and say: "We went well, we left the memorials and it's time to help the simple world." I don't understand that. The simple world has always been time to help him. And we, at least, in the Centro-Centres Union, said that it should not be a savage raid on the whole of the people, but it was necessary to make great sacrifices to those who have and have to take relief from the weak. That was our policy. You have made a cross-cutting of sacrifices and you are now coming to the vote, and you say: 'We will give there, we will give there', purbuir. You humiliate a people like this. You humiliate the people, because after you literally trivialized them, you now come in ridiculous ways. Let us come to the skeptic, because, in essence, this is the cause of the crisis, the skepticism. In SYRIZA's scorching constant tactic is that because Karamanlis, the old man, was wrong in 1977, because Dora did with the younger Karamanlis, Costas, in 2008 another mistake, so you legalize yourself and they call this national line. The mistakes of the past, the reductions, I would say, of the past are called a national line and you say that this is exactly what you are continuing, the national line of - as you add - mistakes of the past. That's what you're doing. And you say that you are legitimate to give such a solution that offends the honour of the Greek people. Because if you had the least hope of having the people with you, I'm sure you'd have a referendum. If you had the slightest hope that you could get a referendum of over 15%, from 20%, you'd take it abruptly. But you know what will happen if there is a referendum. So you come and create a gruesome account that on old dividends, you can set up a solution. And you say it's a definitive solution. In fact, instead of the 'Macedonia' that would be left alone, you say that we will now have the 'North Macedonia'. And you say it as beneficial to the country. This is beneficial. Avoid having a meeting of the Chiefs. You avoided bringing the matter to the House before the Prime Minister went to the Prespes. I warned Mr Kammenos, saying: 'You now have the ability to withdraw confidence from the government, then you have absolute complicity'. He waited, and even in the camp of Kammenos, a record of Skopje not getting approval, because they said, you'll see that he'll stumble somewhere. Even three days ago Mr Kammenos said: 'To see, he will find the four Members he needs?' Because this is where the Zafe government is having trouble finding the four Members. And I went out and said, "With Americans, with Germans, with the whole world from upstairs won't he find?" I'm surprised with Mr. Kammenos, because I don't think he's naive. Did he really think the design would stumble in Skopje? And when the time has come for meditation, then Mr. Kammenos takes his suitcase after he left 70% of his party with Mr. Tsipras. And here I want to say the other indulgence. Two parties agreed to build a government and one is stealing 70% of the Members of Parliament, who would have had to fire Mr Tsipras immediately and the MPs who are ministers of the Kammenos. That's what honesty would have imposed. He's been using him for four years and he's been throwing him like a lemon butt? Is that how we eat?’ But what government will that be, ladies and gentlemen? This government's a hundred and fifty-one is counting on them and on a Member elected with the Centro Association - do you know that? - with a list, she's counting her power. And I was told by Mr. Tsipras in private at Maximos when Congressman Karras left, who happened immediately after we met: "They take you as MPs, Leventis, and it's not nice." That's what Mr. Tsipras told me. On this unprecedented, Mr. Tsipras, you are relying on trust.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u194	Don't make your son Vice President of Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u195	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u196	Don't talk! Shame on you! You will be punished by the people when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u197	Don't make your son Vice President of Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u198	Ms. Big Housekeeper, please. Go on, Mr. Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u199	You will be punished when the time comes from the people. Tsipras gives a moral test. I'm talking about Tsipra, not about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u200	Don't make your son Vice President of Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u201	All right. Why did SYRIZA make you Vice President? Let us go! Shame on you! Undeserved!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u202	Please, Mr. Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u203	I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u204	It can't be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u205	I delivered my seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u206	Which seat did you deliver?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u207	Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u208	Rejoice your 151st Member!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u209	I'm pleased.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u210	You're pleased, I don't doubt it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u211	You guys enjoy your son for making him Vice President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u212	You're pleased and history written now. There's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u213	The president said to others, all of them fifty-one of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u214	Listen to something. I've been talking about moderation. I want to give the meaning of a reduction so I don't get any misunderstanding. Maybe I'm a little sad about the MPs here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u215	You should not use it at all, Mr President. In order not to explain the word moderation, do not use it better.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u216	But how can I pay off something that affects the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u217	Find another word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u218	How can I render something the country grants?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u219	Please find another word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u220	It is not yours, and Macedonia is not yours, Mr Varremene, nor have you shed your blood.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u221	Neither do you. Let's go later now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u222	Of course neither do I. We have to respect it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u223	Nobody needs a transfusion in here. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u224	Constantine Karamanlis, when he went and did the Zurich and London agreements, came here to this Chamber and said the Cyprus issue was resolved. And George Papandreou stood up and said: “I am afraid that he was not solved, now the adventures are beginning.” Was she conscious of Karamanlis being reduced? Oh, no. He had just received assurances from the Americans that they would keep Turkey. They had said to him "Signed fearlessly and Turkey we are taking it on." That's it, that's what was hiding from the back. When Ioannides allowed Samson to do the coup in Cyprus, do you think Ioannides was consciously a traitor? No, of course not. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Let me talk, gentlemen. You're too hasty. I think whatever Joannides was, he was a veil, a traitor, no. It was based on talks by the Americans that they keep the Turks, they take over. And he was betrayed by the Americans. The same will happen to Tsipras. Tsipras thinks, they say, that in the Balkans Thessaloniki will have a great place, a landmark, it will become a dialkan center, an international center, where it goes all the time there and it inaugurates and does various things. The Americans will do their job, and in the end the Tsipra signature will be the one to stay. And when the gentlemen launch their plans for Macedonia in the Aegean, I want to see where you will hide in this Chamber everyone you vote for. I do not say that with evil, and I would even hope that the Treaty of Ambassadors will not be the case properly and that things will come very beautifully. But it won't be. Things are specified. They deceive Greece once again, Americans and Germans. Once again they're cheating on her. And it'll be late. We'll have betrayed Macedonia. It will be too late for Greece. We will have shown disgrace to a region of Greece, such as Macedonia, which is what the country currently has. The most sacred thing the country has right now is Thessaloniki. You know that very well. It is a disgraceful thing that this Chamber is doing if it finally votes. I ask the inhabitants of Macedonia to be patient. It's a bora and it'll pass. But I would also ask the New Democracy to explain it to men - so to speak. You say something about language, about identity. On the subject of the name you are confusing them very much. Before I came to the room, my partner put my old Mitsotakis a quote from an interview saying he was giving the name. "The name has no meaning," he said. Kyriakos Mitsotakis' answer to the Thessaloniki Exhibition said: The name is small. In a two-day meeting in Glyfada, where a member of the New Democracy was present, I asked to explain what they will do about the name and said "for us in the New Democracy what matters is language and nationality. The name is just the vehicle.’ I didn't really understand. Not to say who the Member was. The name, he says, is the vehicle! That's right. Do you guys give the vehicle? Clear something up, you lads! You have a party and you want to rule tomorrow. It is a shame to leave Greece in confusion, not to know what attitude you will take. That's not nice, Mr. Athanasios. Make it clear what you're gonna do with the name. To protect the name the people ask for at the rally. He does not ask for the language from Kyriakos or nationality. The name asks, Mr. Athanasios. Say 'yes', 'no'. Say something. Make a commitment. You're driving the people into a new graduation round. Is that what you want? Escape from one mode and fall into your own second and bigger ones this time? Is that what you want? This House is good to end its life as soon as possible, because its life has been linked with transcriptions, with changes of parties, with posterior polls. There are two curses in this House: Tsipras, who is next to parliamentarians to build the 'five and one' and Mitsotakis who wants the next Parliament and which party he sacrifices, Mr Loverdos? The Centro Association. He doesn't know what stamina the Center has. The Centre has taken forty years to get into the House and now it is not easy to get out of the House, no matter how much pressure we suffer. You know that well. No matter how much pressure we suffer, other parties may die, the Centro Association does not, because it expresses the conflict with yesterday, revolution and democracy. The people know that if the New Democracy comes, as has been said, without a brake, that is to say, a party to stop the ruptured, its exaggeration, its corruption, that will be dangerous. This New Democracy will be worse than before. The Centro Association will have support from society because it is very dangerous a self-sustaining New Democracy. Only then can the Centro Association provide this brake. The world will realize that over the years. There is also another matter. Why are you in a hurry for the three days to be two, and then in two days' time for the Prespes to be voted on? Why do you want within four, five days to end everything? Because you have a lot of bills to have, as you say. The two days are the ones that cut you off? Why don't you let the House sit calmly, in dialogue, in consultation? Why don't you let the people go? Tsipras said next time: I'm going to the people. There's no need for the police. I saw five hundred shells, ten thousand policemen. Let Mr. Tsipras or Egnatia walk to the police around him. Is that the Prime Minister? Today he said: I'm the Prime Minister. Now I'm talking. It reminded me of dictators. What's that? He said: I'm the Prime Minister. Sit down. When a Prime Minister needs to sit down, he's just before the end of it, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, too. Mrs Sia Anagnostopoulou has the floor for seven minutes at most.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u226	Tolerant, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u227	No, because everyone else needs to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. I'm a little dependent on your tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, in Parliament today and tomorrow, we have two historic days because they mark the end of a great war, ten years of war, which began with the crisis, without conventional weapons, but very hard and catalyst for society. As in every war, so to the one we have had for ten years, political forces have been redeploying, the social forces are aware of themselves and of the objectives they have set, until the final political fields are formed and shaped. What do we have today in the memorial era? The big question that the political world needs to answer, but society is what nation we want, what country we want, what society we want. This question the Prime Minister brought to the House, as always. We have heard a great deal about willing men, about apostates, about a thousand two, about dealings. They have not learned or have forgotten that in this Parliament politics is being played, democracy is being played and democracy is a tough thing, it wants dialectical conflict and there - especially at borderline times - reset forces. They want to intimidate the world and the MPs, with the messages, with all that we have seen. This limiting moment, then, gives a slogan: We are not afraid! The vote of confidence in this government is the first to show that we are not afraid. I also said that in a war, forces are being rescheduled. As in all the major wars, we sometimes see dispersed political and social forces who are drafted to fight this one battle. But what shapes the central political landscape and conflicting fronts arrives when the borderline moment comes. The Prespecies's Agreement is such a marginal moment. And it is not just a national matter. It is because it answers the question I raised before, what nation, what country, what society we want, if we want a nation, a society - a porcupine and outward, but also inwards, or whether we want a society that can vision its future, respecting its past, history, but envisioning and writing history in the future. There are forces here today and it will appear in the next few days - it has already begun to be corrupt, it has already seemed for some time now - who want this nation, this society to be entrenched, a porcupine. Cyberally, the New Democracy wanted to pass the Prespecies Agreement on the one hand to solve a problem that these same governments have created, a dead end, to throw the retina on the left that "to give language, ethnicity" etc., when the agreement comes, we will discuss them. On the other hand, after unleashing with it, she wanted to implement her own political plan, which is the porcupine on the inside, the fear of one social power, one social order on the other: private against the public, the rich against the poor, the excellent against the mediterranean, etc., foreheads all the time. This left was always clear. The left is anti-nationalist, social and individual rights. And these are interconnected. That's why we're saying we don't want a society and a nation of porcupines. So the battle of anti-nationalism, of another civilization of social and individual rights, must be given to the memorial era. That's why we're asking for a vote of confidence. We are not asking to keep the chairs which we do not carry inherited rights. We got them, the Greek people gave them to us for a specific reason. So I want to stay a little on this Left and on its mark, because this left was always anti-nationalist, with this anti-nationalism grounded in society, because anti-nationalism grounded in society, with social and individual rights, means emancipation of society, it means courage in society. We've always fought these battles before we get the government. And it is sad that people, Prime Ministers whom we supported when their executives were not in these battles, do not now come out to talk. Let me remember the issue of identities, whether religion will be recorded, etc.Huh? Who gave the battle? I see Phil, I remember the late Elefante and me we kept writing. I did not see Mr Simitis coming out to support this line that we were then giving scattered powers. I remember the Macedonian, in 1992, the late Asdrahas, Elios, Elephant held the great event in Panteion, supporting Mitsotakis policy against Samaras. Nobody came out of New Democracy. Here, however, is a major issue and it is raised in this House today and tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow: the New Democracy, with what its Chief, has said, with what is said about the Prespecies Agreement, but about what is said about society, about the public, about private universities, about all of this, shows one thing, that it breaks, that it stirs - and that seems to be clear - and that is why I have been saying two fronts - the post-Government consensus and it seems like the Right to make a leap backwards towards the post-Government era. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We therefore propose to this House today a large anti-nationalist, social and individual claim front. And on this front, everyone who has fought these battles at times and who is willing to give them. Because in this society that lasted ten years of sacrifice, it is worth the following: First, don't be afraid. Secondly, to dare, not to be afraid of her neighbors, not to be afraid of her neighbors, not to be afraid of the other social forces inside. I'm glad to be a SYRIZA Member. I am pleased and honoured by all those who are being strangled here after discussion, after a full analysis of the political problem. I'm glad they're working with us. The vote of confidence in this government is a vote of confidence in the memorial era for a new Greece without fear, with boldness and braveness, and because our country will be - we can speak through our country - the battlefield to fight Europe. The two major fronts have already been formed, the right conservative with eye closure on the far right front and the left democratic, progressive, socialist front.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u229	Good, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u230	This is the debate these two days in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u231	It's annoying the bell, but yet it's settled in the House, we found it, we didn't put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, I would like to speak for personal reasons to answer Mr Leventis. He can't offend me like that. You'll give me the floor. If you want, call him back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u233	You're welcome. Should I call him in now that he's not here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u234	I'll just read a press release that I gave to all the media.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u235	You will speak after the Vice President, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u236	Good, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government is therefore calling for a vote of confidence to be re-elected by the House. Why does the government want a vote of confidence? Let us see them one - one: For making Greece a champion in increasing taxes in all forty OECD countries? Because almost five million seizures were made, one million fellow citizens opened up their account one day and saw that the Ministry of Finance in SYRIZA and ANEL have taken their money? Because the investments are in one third of the investments we had in 2007? Because public investment has hit a decade on the basis of official budget figures? Because banks have lost 90% of their share value compared to 2015? Because we are the last in Europe, according to Eurostat, to deal with poverty? Because PPC's on the verge of bankruptcy? Because in universities drug dealers do their job undisturbed, and the Minister of Education calls on an allegedly fierce student movement to deal with them? Because the "Rubic" perpetuates in Athens and the government is posing as the wheelchair? Because the villains are escaping from prisons, without anyone picking them up, while the convicted "17 November", Koufantinas, takes a walk down the center of Athens? Because crime is also the doctrine of the government towards the helpless citizens is "do whatever you sleep"? For all these reasons, do you want to take the House's trust? Do you want us to give you a vote of confidence in your infamous and well-known truthfulness? About the fact that you said you'd smash the memos and abolish them with a law and an article? Didn't you say so, and I don't blame you? Did you say you would bring back the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions and make seventeen pension cuts? I'll see you as much as it bothers you. Did you, while saying that you would protect the weak, have you made twenty-nine increases in taxes and the proportion of direct - indirect taxes is the worst thing ever, that is, in favour of indirect taxes, paid equally by a shipowner and a retired person, on a government that is supposed to have made its flag of social sensitivity? Where do I blame you on all this? Or do I blame you if I say that you want to take the vote of confidence with your flag on social policy, when you are the government that has completely cut the CSCE, which has abolished the discount on medical expenses, the luxury allowance, which has significantly reduced the heating allowance? Yes, I want one of you to come out of this moment and say, "You were wrong there," because I speak with data. You may be disturbed by the evidence, but this is the reality from which, whatever show you do, you won't escape. You also want to have a vote of confidence, because you express the new spirit, the new one, in the political life of the place. How, ladies and gentlemen? With the Himalayan cat? Saudi-Arab middleman? With the television license contests with warranties for pasture? You weren't here when all this was happening? With the complaints about the management of funds in migration, which are currently being investigated by the European Union? With the intervention of the Commission in the tender for the airport "Eleftherios Venizelos" or for the DEPA-Laurentiadis scandal, where is all the ministers, Mr. Papapas and in the middle of Manolis, the notorious Mr. Petsiti? Is there anything inaccurate? Have we invented all this? Did they happen or did they not occur on a government that has the courage in these matters, even today, to shake the finger? Should we give you a vote of confidence in the Prespecies Agreement, which is so beneficial to our country? This is an agreement, which provides with our own seal, with the stamp of your own government, the terms 'Macedonian nationality' and 'Macedonian language'. Was that the national position? The Greek national position was that we should give them Macedonian ethnicity and Macedonian language? Tell us when it was! Should we give you a vote of confidence on the Skopje issue, when you worked on it, in order to divide the Opposition, without any spirit, really, national understanding? Of course - I'm so sorry! - You went for hair and you went out ragged. Should we give you a vote of confidence in this agreement, when it was the occasion to baptize yourself with arrogant arrogance, as Maria Antoinette, a 'nationalist' of anyone who was before you and a 'great multitude', even your voters who came out to protest against this agreement? But if all this had not been the case, Mr President, even the manipulation of the vote of confidence that we have been living in the last few days would have been enough to vote against the government, because it is a comedian manipulation of a comedian government. What's happened? We have a supposed departure from Mr Kammenos, after having taken it before mysterious mysteries, but also stayed at the same time half of the party in the government. Inside, except for this. Mr. Kammenos has four MPs who have left him. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, will you hold this bell forever?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Hatzidakis, there have been protests that the bell is ringing selectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u240	I'll tell you about Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u241	However, the first one to keep time will get a good report.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u242	I would therefore say that we had the following, ladies and gentlemen, to make it clear: we have four Members of Mr Kammenos who leave his party. The two are deleted. The other two are not deleted, although they will vote in favour of the Government which Mr Kammens denounces, but also in favour of the Prespecies Agreement. And I would like to ask you - among you teachers, are people who have read the modern Greek and international political history - where we have seen a phenomenon like this, which we have today in front of us, this laughter of the ruling opposition? It is an opposition which is partly in the government majority, partly in the opposition, with Members who are partly deleted, not partially deleted. And all that you call it'stable', making the prosecutors and swinging the finger. In everything, there's a limit. In arrogance, in cynicism there is a limit. And in the comic, there's a limit. Because, you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u243	And in time there was a limit, Mr Hatzidakis, and we had long overcome the limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u244	I'm closing, Mr. President. There is the opposition that the opposition parties can make. There is the opposition that reality itself does. But there is also the opposition that the government itself does to itself, self-immigrant. And that's the situation we've been experiencing these days.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u246	And you know, if the government gets self-immigrated, I don't care that much. I care that this is unfolding while the country needs to be pleasantly surprised in Greece and abroad, to regain lost confidence in the economy, to attract investment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u247	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u248	Stop the Brain Drain. This is not going to be achieved by this government because it is a 'burden government'. Mr. Kammens theoretically left, but he has left the stadium in SYRIZA, he has left his stadium on the government's own political character. It's a government that's humiliating. The sooner you leave, the better for the place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u249	Yes, sir. Anyone taking the floor isn't the last one and there's no one next. There's a lot of people after and their circles built the parties. Mrs. Big Housekeeper has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much. I won't be too late for you. I'm just going to read to you the press release I gave to the media on the 11th day of the month, so that the President of the Centro Association will know about it. He's got it, too. "Theodoras Megalonikou, SYRIZA's MEP: Cause for the moment is repeated, but also earlier statements by the President of the Centroon Union..." - he also made them in plenary - "... Leventis in the media, where the latter constantly insists on calling me a apostate and a traitor, because I left the Centro Association. Of course, my departure from the Centroon Union on 10-7-2017 was made following Mr Vassilis Leventis' personal and unilateral decision to appoint Mr Marios Georgiadis as Vice-President of the Parliament without ever asking the parliamentary group about this decision. In fact, Mr Leventis himself has been publicly successful in the policy of family rule...'. So without being a parliamentary group, Mr Leventis made his son Vice-President. I left because he no longer represented me. I have been an independent MEP for six months. I've been following the House and decided where I'm going. In fact, when I left, I thought it was right for me to hand over my seat. However, on 29 August 2016, Mr. Callianos had left the Centro Association and joined the New Democracy. So the next one from me was Mr. Callianos, who would take my seat. There was no parliamentary group, no one decided for the Vice-President, and then Mr Leventis said that the MPs did not deliver their seat. I answer him that we are nine with Mr. President, eight with his son, Mr. Marios Georgiadis. So let's give us by name who didn't give up his seat. And if he wanted to set a good example, Mr. Georgiadis would first hand over his seat. Well, stop dealing with me and think about his mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u251	Be well. Thank you, too. The Minister for Labour has the floor, Mr. Heliopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hatzidakis was just asking if we want to vote for a vote of confidence in the New Democracy in this process. To be clear, we obviously do not want to get a vote of confidence from the New Democracy. We would be very concerned if we took a vote of confidence from New Democracy in this process, because the New Democracy has chosen for a long time to give a vote of confidence in the Europe of Orban, in the Europe of Kurts, in Europe that respects neither human nor labour rights. But that's what we'll be coming to. I could respond to what Mr Hatzidakis said about the Macedonian issue. I could recall again about the language that it is an issue that expires since 1977 in the most official way in the UN. I could recall the issues of how International Law does not recognise ethnicities, but citizenship. But it doesn't matter. And it doesn't matter, because Mr. Hatzidakis and those of the liberals left in New Democracy, what they say, don't believe them. And why don't they believe them? Because in the European elections with great pleasure and ease, Mr Weber will be supporting for the President of the Commission, who calls it Macedonia a perfect country. The European People's Party from the start supports this agreement. And very well he does and supports this agreement, because it is a strategic agreement to defeat nationalism in the Balkans, it is an agreement on stability and peace. If the New Democracy believed what it says about the agreement, it would leave the European People's Party and go to the lap of Salvini and Lepen in this Eurogroup, which I am sure Mr Vorides would be very pleased to hear, but not Mr Hatzidakis. And that's what I want to be honest with him. So let us now discuss why this government must take a vote of confidence. From the first moment we have stressed that the question of work is central to the very quality of democracy both in Europe and in the country. At the first moment, we have fought for the protection of work. And where are we today? Today, at the moment, we can say that unemployment has declined by 8%. In fact, the proportion of new jobs is 70% in full and 30% in part. We are not just talking about reducing unemployment, but about the fact that three hundred and eighty thousand more employees compared to 2014 are currently working in that country. And that is one reason why this government should be supported. We are not celebrating because we know very well that 18% is a very large percentage. And we know very well that the man who is unemployed is 100% unemployed and does not care whether unemployment has fallen by 8% and whether he has fallen close to 10% by October when elections are to take place. Of course, however, it shows that we are moving in the right direction. To talk about the reintroduction of collective bargaining, which is not an abstract and abstract right. Just one example: At the moment with the collective agreement on tourism, which has an import salary of EUR 780, it means that a new child of twenty-two years working for a season in hotels instead of EUR 511 takes EUR 780. And this reintroduction of rights is a reason to support this government. To talk about the Labour Inspectorate, because we are constantly listening to unbattles and injustices. But when Mr Mitsotakis had gone to the Banking Union, he did not find himself talking about the fact that he was actually unbad for the previous governments on labour law. He found half a word to say that he was in the kingdom of lawlessness when the inspection was going to carry out inspections, get people out the emergency staircases or hide them under offices. He found half a word about how they all do not respect labour law, because they thought they were above the laws, because they thought they could speak directly with the government, whatever the government and the Labour Inspectorate are the last wheel of the charity in this country. Fortunately for us, with more than two hundred thousand controls over the last few years and undeclared work, we have now reduced the undeclared work, and more than 45 million of them have been paid to the workers, without having to go to the courts, but just through the procedures of the Labour Inspectorate. This is all a reason for the government to continue its action. Should we talk about unemployment programmes, where for the first time targeted programmes are being implemented not just for the long-term unemployed, but for young scientists? Because they already run programs for ten and thousands of young scientists, both in the public and private sectors, which have increased subsidies, far above basic wages and can pay up to EUR 1,600 in targeted productive sectors of the economy, such as processing, agri-food and industry. Should we talk about what was happening on the day of the New Democracy - PASOK on training issues, which Mr Mitsotakis mentioned to Mr Hatzinikolaou? Let me give you a small example. If anyone sees the overall training centres in Germany, they do not exceed three hundred training centres throughout the country. With the laws that the New Democracy - PASOK coup d'état brought in 2012 for training centres, we found ourselves with more than two thousand training centres that were the only goal, which had to be "done" European funds and not support the unemployed. In this sense, I am very surprised that Mr Mitsotakis had the courage to talk about training programmes which need to be changed. All these changes, and on the issues of the unemployment programmes, are another reason why it should be supported by the government. And the last sentence on labour issues: what we have before us in the next few days, namely finally abolishing the underpaid wage and increasing wages, is a question of social justice and a question of development strategy. Because all the neoliberal ideologies were tested in Greece of the crisis. You reduced to 23% in one night wage and 32% in the lowest, and unemployment reached 27%. Unemployment has not declined. Everything you've said is out of rusty books, ideologically, neoliberal failed recipes. They were tested, failed, and that's where they're staying. They'll stay on the side of failure. But let me turn back and close with what I started, namely that the issue of work today is also a question of democracy throughout Europe. And there are issues of democracy. Today in Poland there are very great protests against the assassination of Mayor Pavel Adamovic, who was murdered because he was a mayor who had supported immigrants, who had supported the rights of people with a different sexual orientation. And all his rhetoric of the people with whom the New Democracy talks both within the country and the European People's Party led to this murder. Because being a patriot means he loves a place and respects his people. You can't respect a place and its people if you don't respect everyone's rights, rights and what's different. You can't love a place and its people if, like Orban, you think workers should work like slaves, over three hundred hours of overtime and be paid within the next three years. You can't love a place and its people if, like the Kurch government, it questiones eight hours and goes back to 12 hours. I conclude by saying: I have said the reasons why the government should rely on it. I should like to give you three reasons why this government must not rely on each other to make its own choices. This government must not be supported if you want to abolish collective agreements. This government must not be supported if you want to return to its Memorandum of Status of "one intake for every five departures" and dismantle the public sector. This government must not be supported if you want in that country a government of the Orban type. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u253	Thank you. Mrs Iglezis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u254	But you did not give it to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u255	Yeah. Mr. Eliopoulos is the first to keep time. I guess he's not the last one. Here, Mrs. Iglezi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers and ladies Ministers, four years after January 2015, when society first decided to give the country's rule to the Left. Four years later, having gone through all kinds of support, but with society standing, the government is now coming to the Greek Parliament asking for a vote of confidence. This is a parliamentary procedure of great importance. However, we are sure of its outcome, because our society has already given us a vote of confidence, because we have not gone a moment away from society and the people. Our first goal was to get out of the memorials. This objective has been achieved with sacrifices, of course, but - I will repeat it again - with society standing up. I don't need to remind you what our country and our people were living until 2015. After all, neither of us can forget the millions of unemployed and uninsured, the youth who have fallen apart, the vulture of violence and repression which we in Halkidiki have experienced on our side. In 2015 we had to make painful decisions. Some of them have brought us into conflict with our own core. However, above our party interest, political clientele, ideological cleanliness, we put home. Today's reality has justified us. Greece since August 2018 is a country that gained dignity, its right to formulate politics and self-confidence. We have achieved a great deal throughout this time, ladies and gentlemen. We restored the politician to the heart of politics. We remain a political force that is not intertwined. We don't rely on fireplaces to keep us in power. We are strengthening democracy and institutions. We are involved in human rights. And all this is happening, while we have given a titanic battle to reduce uninsured people and have all the right to access public health, to return labour rights - Mr Helios said so in detail - which the previous governments had sacrificed. We had given a titanic battle to tackle extreme poverty, to make significant development projects for the country, such as the Land register and forest maps, to promote a development policy for the country, but which does not plunder its natural resources. We hear all these days patriots with the offshore, the patriots of interlocutory, the patriots of tax evasion and remoulla shouting for their homeland. Those who plundered the country are whining for its betrayal. We, without screaming - as always - have been without exaggeration against the Macedonian issue, listening to the call of history and have chosen, instead of the ghosts of the Dedicated Opposition, to look at our children and the future. The Embassy Agreement does not just close historical loose ends, nor does it cure wounds. This agreement is looking towards tomorrow, by safeguarding our national laws, by serving the interests of our people, but also by respecting the neighboring people. In an area of the world, which was always described as a "barehouse", the patriocape was piercing winds and harvesting storms. We have chosen the path of peace, cooperation, coexistence and preparation. You, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, are choosing to restore the civil climate by strengthening anti-democratic practices. I heard last night that some people excavated me and filled with my face with the walls of Halkidiki with the question: "Would you betray our Macedonia?"
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u257	It's disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u258	You have widened into extreme and para-state practices that jeopardise the stability of the country and the region. Instead of being condemned and separated from them, you are strengthening them. In front of your party and not in the national, as you are, of interest, you are sacrificing the country's democratic and patriotic world and its sacrifices. You, who refuse to take responsibility for history, resort to threats and terrorism, reminding all of us how much we have become a society from other times, from the time of civilisation, polarization and isolationism. So I answer your question: San Halkidikitissa, as a Macedonian, as a Greek and as a Balkan, ladies and gentlemen, I am proud of the Prespecies Agreement. You betray the future. Ladies and gentlemen, I support this government and ask you to support it too. It is the only government in the last few decades that, beyond political costs and micro-policy, is really fighting and gaining today and tomorrow for all of us and for what is to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, too. Here, if it's for euphoric mention! Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u260	In the last 24 hours, we have been following the last acts of a pragmatism, a political divorce between Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos, the directing of both. They gave each other what they needed for their work. They play their change in a relentless power game with a risk of political normality, major national issues and the country's progress. Today we are here, in the performance of a terrible suffering, which attempts in every way to deceive citizens against society, against the country, but in the interests of their own, in the interests of their clientry army, to be made by government power, in order to be ruled out of government. That is why we are here today to say 'final' to fraud. Tonight is the last act of a drama and a tribulation that will remain in the history of the country as the worst reel on top and bottom squares, along with the Golden Dawn, has shared hatred, rage, lies and insults, a Golden Dawn that for four years is not a room to complete its trial. The Prime Minister to date played Panos Kammenos in the flying circus of SYRIZA - ANLE. He is now trying to play it as a knight from the centre-left side, with the help of some socially nonexistent compass that has been professionally distinguished on the continuous political routes from one party to another. Stop setting Siloham's swimming pools to rinse the sins of an alliance that is not of nature, but of nature, because one thing is now clear: SYRIZA and ANEL are not two different parties that cooperate. It's a party, a single and indivisible party with a leader and a lieutenant. The leader is the Prime Minister and the lieutenant is the leader of the other party. A confidence vote means an automatic extension to an unconditional and unlimited humiliation of democracy and politics. A vote of confidence in this bitter comedy means automatic captivity with cynicism, theatreism, machievism. Instead of dialogue, constructions, instead of arguments, transactions. Instead of national responsibility, personal passion for authority. We have a fully-determined and misdemeanored government, a cliché of conflict between SYRIZA and ANEL on the harmful Prespecies Agreement, with the exchange of MPs moving like players from one group to another, creditors with market option - barely for the season to come out, a total picture of decline. Mr. Tsipras, the golden sponsor of neo-conservativeism, disguises every concept of progressiveity. The undermining of democracy is not a progressive policy. Working on the institutional guarantees of the culture is not a progressive policy. Negotiation inability is not a progressive policy. Absolute subjection to foreign orders is not a progressive policy. The cultivation of hatred, division and hunger is not a progressive policy. Inequality grew. Brain drain, unemployment, demographics, the upcoming new crisis in insurance, pensions, health and education is an explosive mixture. The Greek citizens have now been turned into awkward benefits. We have the most distressing state of Postpopulation, an offense circuit with orchestration from the Maximos Mansion. Executive arm the third, the obscure, the right-wing component of the regime, a circuit setting up ocular, cuffed structures to engage political opponents of the government, a decline that fits with the lack of hope, with the resignation of every ambition for a better tomorrow. This has so far been the biggest victory of the Tsipras - Kammenos twin: a major shareholder of political amoralism on the stock market, Mr. Tsipras. We at the Change Movement revealed the major scandals: The 600 million from "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", the 80% reduction in controls on fuel smuggling, the Triasios scandal, the 120 million scandal in the PPC, the 80 % sale scandal of PPC. And today we have an even greater scandal, a national scandal: we have just learned that the two thousand and twenty-nine monuments and cultural buildings of the country which you allegedly erroneously transferred to the superstate, for these properties it appeals to the Council of State in favour of the Prime Minister of Greece, to the Minister of Finance, to the Vice-President of the Government and to the authority of the Minister who transfers the property, to the Supreme Council. The superstition appeals against the land and monuments of the country and in favour of the Prime Minister, so that the country's monuments remain in the superstition. Your great shame. I present yesterday's appeal to the Council of State. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And, of course, we do not want to be blind to the result of the vote. If the Tsipra - Kammenos transaction had not brought the desired results, we would simply not be here. However, this is a temporary success of a company that governs hiding. The Parliament now finds itself in full resentment with the popular will and the 1965 transactions, which have relied on as ghosts in this building in the last few days, will be closed down in the history locker. Because the division and the new cycle of crisis can only be solved in one way: by elections and by a strong movement of change that believes deeply in Greece the national secure, institutionally strong, politically democratic, economically sound and socially fair. This movement of change will be chosen by the citizens in the next election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and three teachers, from the 2nd Corinth High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr George Stathakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, if I watched New Democracy correctly, it has a very strong argument why you should not vote for a vote of confidence today, that the government is not good government, it is bad government. And this argument repeats it not only on a day when it comes to the subject of confidence in the House, it is constantly repeating it and uninterruptedly, calling for elections to be held on a continuous basis. The task of counterpopulation is to say the government's bad. The opposition cannot applaud the government. It makes sense in a parliamentary system. On the other hand, however, it is a peculiar argument. Because democracy, as you know, works with its own rules. A government is elected for four years. In order to stop ruling for four years, there is no opposition reason to say 'you are not good government'. There is a need for more than that in order to make an argument not to complete a government's term of office. I would like to get to the bottom of the arguments. Mr. Hatzidakis said so, and he disappointed me, I confess. He praised the security problems in public universities, these public universities, which are at the three hundred best in the world, and every year, they are stepping up. For these public universities...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u263	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u264	...wasn't said about it, but only about having some drug cases, I don't remember, somewhere in some courtyards, etc. Cauvada has not been said about the stabilisation of the banking system. The fact that capital has been lost in the recapitalisation has been that capital has been lost. We know that, but that was the necessary step to move forward. Kuveda for the economy recovering. It has only been said that investments are less than they were five years ago coke. Therefore, apart from the identological argument, which is not the case, we have the very basic argument, namely, whether this government has stabilised the economy and created conditions for sustainable recovery - since the recovery comes from coke exports, so we have strong samples, reductions in unemployment and all that has been said - or whether the economy is indeed on the brink of a new cycle of collapse. Forgot the fourth Memorandum. Six months I heard there was a fourth memorial coming. Now, as I understand it, only one former Prime Minister claims this, somewhere around the corner in the year comes another memorandum because the economy collapses. Therefore, in the essential subject - I repeat - there is nothing more than the reality, which says that the argument for not completing the four-year period because the government is not good, from the standpoint of anti-population is a simple ID card in content. The second issue, therefore, which is raised - and this is the risk of today's debate - is essentially whether or not the current government has the right to bring the agreement it has made to Parliament and not to this basic question, the answer may not only be positive, but must bring in and test the agreement within this House because it is an integral part of the government's political initiatives, a great historical opportunity. We have been discussing this for a long time. Greece, with this agreement, wins all three peak points, which constituted the fixed national line of the Greek governments: it wins the deletion of the history that it was going through on ancient Greece, wins the synonymous name, wins the lifting of all constitutional articles that imply or left a suspicion of mutilation, and at the same time, both of the wordings invoked by the New Democracy, which were never in the national negotiating line, are issues which in this agreement are very specificly regulated. I am referring to the Macedonian - Slavic language, recognised since 1977, established in all the world dictionaries as distinguished by the Bulgarian - I stress this - and also in the capacity of the citizen, which is clearly expressed as a 'citizen of Northern Macedonia', with a Macedonian word vertically expressed in all the languages of the many ethnic groups that the neighbouring country has. So in the second argument, if this government must complete its part of the agreement and put it in Parliament's judgement, the answer can only be positive. It is the government's duty to come and complete this important step and to be judged by Parliament. I am trying to think about the third argument, if the vote of confidence, which the government is asking for today, has the right to do so, operating a step ahead of the developments, or if it should wait for the New Democracy to bring a motion of censure to the government, and it seems to me that this choice made by the government to give a positive signal to the completion of its four-year term is a positive or negative precedent for this House or for our parliamentary life. The answer here can only be positive. The Government did not need to continue to rule on the basis of the constitutional requirements until the end of the four-year period. On the contrary, and given that the motion of censure could not be relied upon by the opposition, the government comes in a very clear way and says 'and I would like to conclude the agreement by putting it in Parliament's judgement and I want a positive signal to the completion of my four-year period from this House' invoking a number of issues which are called on to be completed and at any rate, looking at the fact that there is not a major issue at the moment that would force the government to stop the country's governance before the end of the four-year period. Therefore, recourse to a vote of confidence in the House today comes to strengthen the Government's position that both the problem, which must come to Parliament anyway - I am referring to the country's international agreement - and the completion of its term of office must be placed both in Parliament's crisis. I do not see that any other parliamentary or constitutional order could provide a better argument than a procedure chosen by the government, clean, simple and fully compatible with our parliamentary life and ready to accept the results of a pure parliamentary procedure, as imposed by constitutional and parliamentary procedures. Therefore, the arguments of counter-population maintain a strong form of fleeing, rather, right now from reality. I repeat that it comes back to how bad we are, to how disastrous our decisions are, to the extent that it comes back to intimidation, to practices that are foreign to the customs of our parliamentary life, which is probably not facilitating the debate. However, objectively we have to recognise two things, that at the moment the dividing lines, not with the element of the polarisation and division of our people, but the dividing lines formed in a Greece, which closed the circle of memoranda, which has shaped a framework, these dividing lines are increasingly important, are real. The first dividing line is the line to nationalism. It is clear that at the moment there is a dividing line in Greek society - I say it fully well - a clear dividing line on the issues of nationalism. Because a very wide range of citizens' powers responds to this dilemma in a very specific way. We must move on, we must leave a long period of nationalist approach to the issues of international policy, our neighbours and many other areas. It is also about the internal dimension of our political life. So a dividing line is exist. And this existing dividing line puts us before the responsibilities to move towards distinct policies on the subject of the agreement, which is now escalating with the agreement on the scepticism. The second dividing line is also clear. It concerns the rights and strengthening of institutions and of citizens' equality with regard to laws, rules and ways of institutionalising the state. It is a very clear dividing line that has been created in the midst of the constant changes in the rightful issues, as well as in the issues that are related to and strengthened either by the constitutional review or by additional institutional initiatives that are coming in the next period. The third division line is also very clear. It is about the Greek economy and how it will recover the next day. Will it be an economy that includes, unites or excludes and strengthens inequalities? This is the risk, and on this dividing line I think day after day the different approach of the New Democracy and the present Government is very clear. This is also the issue of the next day. And finally, the heart of the problem remains the same dividing line around the social state. I have not accidentally mentioned the example of the permanent confrontation for the public university, the public school, which is what puts our children in public universities, which creates an educational system with a brilliant international performance, with huge international radiation. Therefore, strengthening the public social state, strengthening health, the welfare system, the protection system for those who fall below the poverty line, and so on in the face of a policy which is always at the centre of these functions of the social state. These four dividing lines are the ones that not only form today, the day after tomorrow between us a new provision of our political forces, but they are also the ones that, after the end of the four-year period, will judge the next elections and enter the crisis of the Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to speak to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u266	As a Parliamentary Representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u267	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u268	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u269	Mr Stathakis, I did not hear what Mr Hatzidakis said, but I heard you. I have a point to make and I have to come up with a question which, rather rhetoric, needs to be on the basis of what you have said, but it gives you an opportunity, if I have misunderstood you, to make it clear. With reference to matters of security and order within universities, you described them in a way as being marginal and stressed that some of our institutions are in the first two hundred in the world and others. As former Minister of Education, I had the opportunity to see what you say in practice as regards the successes of certain of our universities. However, I would like to ask you a question, which concerns and photographs a case for many. One of the universities that is very well in the country is the old, as we called it, ASEAN.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u270	Now what, then, are you asking him a question to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u271	No, listen a little, I'll end up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u272	Facilitate conversation, Mr. Loverdos!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u273	I'm making it absolutely easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u274	You don't make it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u275	I'm done, Mr. President. Mr Stathakis, I refer to the following: UNSCR is one of these universities that is good. The University of Economics is a good university. Mr. Gatsius' dean has deposited it. Aren't you telling me: Do you keep in mind regional security issues around ASEAN, around the University of Economics? What right are you underestimating a number of problems that exist and related to security? What right are you underestimating the restriction of academic freedom, which for many university teachers is unbatly space?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u276	Mr. Loverdo, there should be an event in the universities to discuss this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u277	You have no right to address yourself in the way you have been addressed. And if anyone has misunderstood you, give an explanation. You're a university student. It is unacceptable that you speak of a subject that is aroused by the Greek universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Xydakis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u279	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Stathakis, my colleague, made a good introduction to what I want to finish. With soberness and precision, he also set the framework for SYRIZA's policy, the SYRIZA Government, for which a vote of confidence is called for, but also on lines, the importance of the Presidencies' Agreement and the conditions and very vague - to the outset - objections raised by the Opposition. About a year ago, when the story of the Prespecies Agreement began, we said SYRIZA MPs, with the first President of Parliament, MP of SYRIZA, Mr Voutsi, that the Prespecies Agreement will cause tectonic movements in political geography and the provision of political forces, it will also affect citizens' consciences. Finally, there is this agreement, along with the historical adventure of the memoranda, one of the factors that shows us the change of political subject, since we see it - and whoever does not see it is either blind or hypocritical - that society itself is changing. The crisis, politically and spiritually, began long before bankruptcy, and the major bankruptcy was the opportunity to bring with pain and violence major social changes, to develop new skills very hard and, unfortunately, the majority of the political system that has been governed by the Civicism has not learned any lessons. I draw a lesson from the lyrics, unequivocal and hysterical attacks of anti-politicism, especially the conservative fact that has also been mutated by the extreme centre. I will paraphrase a Latin phrase: 'fiat imperium et pereat mundus', to become a guinea pig and let the world fall. How many times the four years of governance we have not heard loudly and with the intensity of Vice-Population begging, wishing for a national accident - "They are getting strong!", "Vasta, Shoeble!" -, begging national accidents in the sensitive Aegean area, beg that there be no peace in the Balkans, beg that there be no peace in Greek-Turkish relations. I would remind you, to see hypocrisy and the mixture of inertia and toxic division, that in the summer of 2015 a prominent strain of the conservative lineup, Panagiotis Baltakos, wrote in the "Kathemerini" in favour, with the argument of the 1922 Georgios Vlachos, the "Oikade" and the "Pomerans". He supported this doctrine of the old right, the hard folk right of Constantine and the People's Party: not one Greek or one Pomeranian will be sacrificed to the soils of the East! This is a dogma respected. Who answered and who called the "Okade", which was the "catch" himself by George Vlachos for twenty-five and thirty years until the '40s and regretted this writing? They answered him next Sunday in the same newspaper and said that it is a typical example, miserable, old-fashioned and old-fashioned. The one who responded to him in this way is a New Democracy MP, Laconias Thanasis Davakis. See, then, a typical preservative of how he responds to the doctrine of introverticity, inertia, the slain nation, introverty, malnutrition, division, division generator. That is the New Democracy policy today. This is the policy of the liberals of the New Democracy. This is the deepest hypocrisy and the huge historical embarrassment. We have a Greece of fatigue and pessimism after ten years of long recession. We have a Greece of self-esteem, of gluttony from the popular tabloids of Europe, a Greece in which they wear overcompensation, malnutrition and suction. And we have to talk to our fellow citizens, with the younger generations who long to listen to something about Greece of confidence, self-knowledge, joy, joy of knowledge. In 2007, with the government of Costas Karamanlis, we were serious about the generation of 700 euros, G700. They had come down in the summer with the fires on Syntagma Square with black t-shirt. Since then, the deep social and spiritual crisis has begun. In 2019, the government of the "left parenthesis" will abolish in the next few days, give hope to the generation of the subordinate. These are mentally worthy, they are of value to the humanities we make in Greek society. The horizon of low expectations for the children of the subordinate and the children who are hosting did not give him by the SYRIZA government. The SYRIZA Government envisions, promises and implements a programme of equality and social justice. He does not promise neoliberal barbarism, deal with oligarchy and well private schools for the children of the rich families. For a public school, public health and public university, Mr. George Stathakis spoke before. One thing we have to say to young citizens who are listening to us, a song from a song that has been singing since 1996 by Socrates Malama. This is what children tell us today: "I walk in a changing world, like our clothes yesterday, it puts ribbons and it upsets me, another paints and passes away." We won't let this world get past us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u280	Thank you too for respecting time. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that Mr Spyridon Dannelis, by letter to the President of Parliament, is making it known that he will be working in Parliament as an independent MEP from today, January 15, 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u281	Mr Constantine Javarras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u282	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that, after the reasons of the previous speakers, I do not think it is necessary to point out the fact that you have led us to a new era which, unfortunately, will not last long, because it is a time that is dominated by the new authority of moralism, the one that has turned politics into a theatre and the one that tries, without answering any questions, to recite monologues from the Step of the House, just to have the pleasure of spending time and gaining space, just and nothing else, the government. But you will allow me, Mr Ministers, to say to you who have previously said that the opposition has no arguments to ask you some questions and I would like the great comfort you have, if you could, to answer them. So today we are talking, at the request of the Prime Minister, about providing Parliament's confidence in the government, and the question raised as a question is to which government and what the content of confidence is. Of course, Mr Stathakis, I do not know if you are in a position to respond, because you did have a very high consensus on Parliament's issues before. But you will allow me to say this: On October 5, 2015, the Step of the House, Alexios Tsipras, had the democratic legitimacy and the mandate of forming a government, appeared in Parliament and asked Parliament to trust it as the head of a consensual figure, a co-government, made up of SYRIZA and ANELs. If you had at least a little of the basic diligence to see what the Prime Minister's programme statements were, which should obviously also be considered as active, that they are valid, you would at least be able to answer a self-evident question, whether or not the government that is asking for the Parliament's confidence today has responded to these specific projects which it has set as programming tasks for itself. And I'll just remind you of four, four main ones. So the Prime Minister said: we will have to deal with and become winners in four battles. The first is red loans. Really, what have you done for red loans, Minister? And not only should red loans be regulated, but there should also be a legislative guarantee of first residence. What have you done for all this? At the same time, it committed itself to preventing the transfer of citizens' loans to the so-called distress funds, as you people call it. What have you done so far, Minister? You're telling us what you've done to us in counterpopulation that you're saying we don't ask you any questions? I'll tell you what you've done. You have delivered yourself to a banking system which has proved unable to deal with the crisis, because the government has not set it a framework of rules. You left the banking system in a state of autonomy and self-regulation. That is why today four million Greeks are being called upon by warning and threat companies to pay for consumer loans and for loans from credit cards of interest amounting to 25%. And you sit down and make the wheelman. Secondly, you said and committed yourself to maintaining the public nature of the energy and of PPC and the networks of IPTO. What did you do for them, Mr. Stathakis? But didn't you have to come here today and tell us one word about what is a government duty that the Prime Minister has given you? Did you do something? Did you do anything contrary to what you committed to doing? Thirdly, the Prime Minister said and pledged that he would set up and operate the Public Property Certification Fund. What have you done so far, Minister? What you have managed to do is not to sell out in the sense that you - because you did nothing - the real estate of the State, but, as you have heard before, what you have achieved is to transfer even the monuments of cultural heritage so that it is subject to creditors. That's what you did. So why give you trust today? To complete your work? Within two, three or five months do you think you can respond to what you promised to do? Apparently, no. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] So today you are deceiving these planets really - I will not tell them the perpetrators - I will tell them the unscrupulous party - MPs, I envyed their political self-preservation to ensure that your Government completes a pro-electional client programme that has nothing to do with what you committed. Mostly, however, what you want to do is take the mind of the Greek voter, just as you did in January and September 2015. But that's over. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. If you want, you give me a minute's tolerance. The most important thing, however, is that I do not know if you happened to read an article of eleven university professors, of course - in history - published in a newspaper on Sunday. There, with scientific arguments, we all know that the Prespecies Agreement is not an honest compromise, but it is a concession that no one has ever thought of doing in this place, because after disclosure and the fact that since 2006 the Skopje have been insisting that Macedonian name be given in their own language and Macedonia's name on their territory, you have included it in Article 7. In this sense you have succeeded, when the problem was to find a joint name for the state of Skopje, to recognise a nation of Macedonian on the territory of the state of Skopje. You are saying this very clearly, of course, and the amendment of Article 36 of the Skopje Constitution, where there is an unequivocal recognition of the homogeneity of Macedonian skeptical origin in our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I don't think you have the right to be proud. That is why I will conclude, Mr President, with the words of the great poet Nikos Gatsos to the Prime Minister: "The weather has come. What can you do with pride?"
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u283	Thank you. Mrs Papariga has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u284	When the Prime Minister came out of the Ministerial Palace of Maximos after his meeting with Mr Kammenos on Sunday morning, he made a position. Of course, he repeated it here, too, but I wanted to stand in this first place. First, he had four - five "I". I didn't count it, but that's about it. Next to every "I", "I", said that all this path followed by "I" was a course of boldness, courage, manhood - he did not say so, but mainly of bravery - risk, as he said "I took a risk". In fact, it's over with 'I'm not afraid of political costs'. Is anyone asking myself this: When, for example, you have signed a memorandum, like the previous ones, when you are holding the thousands of laws of the memorials, when you have turned Greece into a hostage in the minefield of military blackmailing and the preparation of more generalised military interventions in the Eastern Mediterranean, in the Middle East, etc., is this a matter of boldness? At least we know that communists, leftists, progressive radicals, even citizens with conservative social and political perceptions, when speaking of boldness, courage, masturbation, masturbation, heroism - not only of men - always connect it in the field of conflict and confrontation with a very powerful and dangerous opponent. In fact, sometimes you come to the conflict without being sure of its positive effect. If you don't give the battle, you can't figure out what power is. Look, in order to do what the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has done - and I will add to it, not that it is right to be represented, but I say it because of the many 'I' - there is no need for heroism or courage or anything. Some conditions and certain qualities are needed, which I will not analyse, because I must admit that I am going to have a world of conduct in Parliament. But I don't think so. He said this: 'I have the courage to take the political cost'. Where was that addressed? This was addressed to the people. I do not think he meant that when, for example, he agrees with what the Association of Greek Industrialists and most of the entrepreneurs, because no government had 100% of the entrepreneurs with her, when she agrees with the decisions of the European Union or of Mrs Merkel or of the United States, it has a political cost to them. The political cost exists with regard to the people, whether in the form of discontent or vote. When, then, he says, "I'm not afraid of the political cost," with his finger is addressed to the people. He raises his hand towards the people. I won't say that he's only threatening him. And this. Besides, we saw it with the MATs etc. In the last few days, and not just in the last few days. Do you know what he's saying? He says, "Listen to see. Yes, I'm at risk of having a general political cost and an election cost, but I have the ability to mock you, twitch you, slap you, slap you out, put you in terrorist dilemmas. I can, in any case, handle you." So the political cost won't be that big. That's what the Prime Minister said. I don't translate. That's how it comes out. What does he say he's not afraid of political cost? When you take anti-grass measures, in principle, your conscience doesn't know where it should go. Mr Tsakalotos said that we have a EUR 25 billion overhead pillow. Of course, most of it will go where it has to go, where it has been agreed. It has been agreed both with subsequent restructuring and with surveillance and with sustainable debt management by 2060, although in 2060 it will certainly not be the situation that exists today, but that is the horizon. We have a pillow to throw a cheese. "How much do you want? You want 1,550, 2,000 euros in the areas that have six months of snow? Take 300 euros. You want a 70-euro rental allowance? Take it." Thus, the Greek people will discipline them - a large part, the poor and the poorer - on the computer pressing the boxes, pointing to the presumptions of poverty, to wait for the first or the second allowance. So, what did Mr. Chakalotos say? "I now have the advantage - not as a person, but the government - of having some billions of euros where, instead of taking the toughest measures in two years, I get them in four. After getting out of the crisis, there will be a diffusion of reactionary measures." The government also says: "We have now made a compromise with the centre-right of ANELs, an ideological compromise". The ideological compromises relate to everyday life, not to the sphere, in general, the spiritual one, but in any case. 'Now we're going for the centre-left.' I'll ask you a question, Mr Stathakis. When you work with a party of nationalist, extreme right, with extremely outdated, reactionary perceptions, with the measure - if you like - and the 21st century, does that not mean tolerance? Does that not mean help - objectively, beyond your own positions - in disseminating these opinions? And there is no judgement of tolerance to extreme right-wing viewpoints as to how much the party's parliamentary power is, even when there is no political form. Isn't that what you calculated? But you did it for the good of the place! Now, after you have worked with Kammenos - some of them burnt to similar views, of course you have them in the government - you will make the opposite - far-right front to the European elections, etc. Now - he says - let's go for the centre-left. I do not now want to dwell on these, because the centre right and the centre left is nothing but a political slogan, which has the following objective basis: you want two political streams, two poles, two major parties. They have some individual management differences, but they are moving in the same strategy and let us leave that behind. Now let's go to the Central Left. On the left, will you go where? I don't know. With other left or centrers? You'll tell me that we've stopped feeling surprised about what SYRIZA executives can do. But at this event you held at the Concert Hall of Music - where there were newspapers many days and at Dawn and all newspapers - among the speakers and possibly the protagonists for this new welding or the new mantle of the Central Left was a well-known university professor. Let's not say his name. Have you read his books? He's a university professor. Look, if it was just a civilian, I wouldn't mind. Have you read his books? I am not saying, of course, that the books will not be burned, nor will they be tried or set to fire the outside. But I do not bring to the Congregation of Music the one who has written in his books that it was not necessary for EAM and ELAS to take place because the Greek losses were great due to the activity of ELAS, which led to German retaliations, or that the expansion of Gorgepotamos was insignificant. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't call your professor. He was a speaker at the Hall. I don't know which room she was in. "The Greek losses due to the action of ELAS led to German retaliation. The Germans did not retreat because of the Greek Resistance, but because they would be cut off from the advance of the Soviets. What is said about the role of the National Resistance is the hagiographies of history." A book has been released, and two years ago we issued an answer to this book. We're not seeing you now. ‘In fact, the NCA and the ELAS did not obtain legalisation throughout the population. EAM-ELAS relations were intense relationships with the people, control and violence. Of course, at the same time, they admired younger ages and more in cities. Generally it played a role in which area was ELAS If you lived where the ELAS was, you could become ELASATIS. If you lived on another side you could be a fan and part of the Security Orders.” And it concludes with a sub-chapter asking: “What was the diet and who were the donors? The diet was not irrelevant to the Left's action. Are they asking the question: were they ideologists or persecutors?' And that's not all he says. He says more. In the position of Prime Minister - but I do not remember now if he repeated it in his recommendation - he said: "We are seeking Greece to become a leader in the Balkans". And I ask you, if Rama comes out and says 'we are seeking Albania - or the great Albania, who want to do with changing the borders - to become the leader of the Balkans', or if Vucic comes out and says 'Serbial Power in the Balkans', and the Bulgarians go out and say 'the same', that is the left expression? In the past, the left-wing ones said: 'Mutually advantageous co-operations in the equality of peoples, etc.'. What's leading power? As Germany of the European Union is now, to become the Federal Republic of the Balkans or to become the United States of America of a large part of the earth - and not now, globally. In other words, we must be the military, the political, the economic handle - hinted of Piat - in the Balkans, to become a leader. Finally, I remind you of the multidimensional political cooperation, Israel - Egypt - Cyprus and you have also put Jordan. And Netanyahu is hugged by the Prime Minister and brought him to the Balkans to the meetings of the Western Balkan countries! Netanyahu! Now, you will tell me that Israel is now taking part in football, Eurovision, everywhere. I don't care about that. But what does it matter? I have not kept the dates at the moment, but one week after the meeting between Greece - Israel - Cyprus - Egypt - this great alliance - Netanyahu - who came out - announced that Israel's capital is Tel Aviv. The next time he raided Palestine. Look at you, no, leading role for Greece - neither in the Balkans nor throughout the world - we don't want him. This shows that nationalism and cosmopolitanism do not have a red separating line between them. We want Greece to be a fighting factor against nationalism, against imperialism, against "divides and reigns", against all those who fight about whether we have the northern pipeline or the southern pipeline, etc. What do you say to the Greek people? "Do you want ODA to stay"? The ODA has no role but to repair, paint, - I don't know what it will do - along with others - of course - private, friends or not - it doesn't matter - the American planes that can be bombed from here and there, whether in Iran, Syria or Libya, etc. "You want a job? We must strengthen and extend the Souda. They must come nuclearally." Because - if you want - this is how it is: The military, aggressive industry - we are not talking about defence - creates jobs. And the preparation of war creates even more. There are countries that have defeated unemployment through preparation and participation in the World War. Therefore, this fair growth has also a cheap labour force and a lot of barbecue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u285	We shall proceed with Mr. Vitsa, Minister for Migration Policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. On February 9, 2015, SYRIZA honoured me and instructed me to be his speaker in the first programming statements. Then I closed my speech, expressing all of SYRIZA, with the following: The Government of Social Rescue, but also SYRIZA, did not come to simply fight, came to stay, in order for dignity, democracy, development on the basis of social needs, to remain social cohesion and unity. Hope is here and the future states its presence. Then some smiled from the right wing, but four years later we are here, after we went through the reconfirmation of trust from the September 2015 elections, when our people chose to spend the difficult time with SYRIZA. We dissolved every scenario of parentheses, erased the lights from the party of interlocutory, achieved where all others failed, stabilised the economy, took care of the weakest, reduced unemployment by nine points, gave access to public health to millions of our fellow citizens, gained a voice, strong voice in European developments, and of course we took the country out of the black memorial period. And not only that, we are already implementing new stable measures to improve the lives of our citizens, to improve democracy, to upgrade the social state, and we are planning the future with the Constitutional Review, the Agreement with the Church, the new minimum wage that brings together and to increase the minimum pension, the support structure for small and medium-sized enterprises, the development bank and, of course, the Ambassadors' Agreement, a great step towards peace, cooperation and solidarity in the Balkans. At the same time that we are planning the present and the future, you from the Skillful Opposition - and not just - are making your own plans based on your skills and skills. And your skills, your skills are really unique. You're planning the disaster. First and foremost the destruction of your opponents, which no one can tell you not to do, but unfortunately you have no doubt that you will strike the country itself, society itself. As Cassandras, however, you have failed completely and the Greek people will not call you for a review. The evaluations have succeeded, the cutter has never been launched, the exit was spotless and the financial stock is strong. But what you do not want to understand is that every act of ours, yes, with difficulties, with failures and many successes, is at the same time a heavy one in the way you have run the country, a single one in the system that you have built and served, a one I blame for a public subsidized and official of major economic interests, a one I blame against a power that, instead of caring for home and society, puts as its first and principal task in itself to self-reproducing itself. Let's be clean. You are accused of over-financed the country, of dissolving its productive fabric, of creating a culture of social competition by all means, of dismantling the idea of collectiveness and social provision, and, finally, of the logic of ochrophism. On this category we constantly reflect the slogan in our memory, but also in our practice: Or we, society and its needs in a firm direction and on the basis of both the practices of the past and the great anti-social interests. Today no one doubts, neither do you. Today things are better and they're sure they'll work out better. Life itself shows it, even the way and why we are talking about it today. Listen to your speech. Listen to the things you put on. Do they have anything to do with what was happening in Greece from 2009 to 2014? Does it have anything to do with what we were talking about at the time? Of course not. On our back we all talk of a better position and a better social position. In the last three and a half years, the Prime Minister and SYRIZA have honoured me by entrusting me with duties to two Ministries. I'm telling you that I'm sleeping in peace and I'm constantly looking for a new level of competence, feeling that something else can be done, something more we can do. At the Ministry of National Defence we have managed to maintain and increase the integrity of the Armed Forces with little money or even with no money. We upgraded and maintained our weapon systems with EUR 500 million each year. And finally, if I want to address Mr. Koutsouba, stop taking and using data from NATO, because only NATO says we're ruining 4.5 billion, adding pensions to 3.2 billion of the budget to the National Defence. 500 million is for maintenance, purchases, etc. the equipment. The 3.5 billion are wages, pensions and 600 million are operating expenses of the Armed Forces. What do we do? What do you suggest? It is not possible to suggest that we do not give wages and pensions or cut off light and water from camps and penitentiaries. We've said it a hundred thousand times. You insist on this thing. At the same time, we have relied on the officials of the Armed Forces, and they have restored it with their high professionalism and their attitude to our home and people. And all this was done with care. We cared about those who care about everyone, we created hundreds of military homes, we created new clinics and services in military hospitals, we enriched the social offer in every emergency, we fought and achieved a satisfactory new special salary, and of course, as we know, we paid all the retrospectives. Of course, in the Ministry of National Defence we have also taken the great practical weight of the refugee and immigration crisis. Participation and offering in these and others of Kammenos Panos, despite the enormous ideological differences, until yesterday's A/HYDIA and today the Minister of Defence, Admiral Apostolakis, was very great. But very large was the participation of Costas of the Peaceful, Nikos Toska, Panos of the Riga, Maria of Collia. Participation in them is undeniable, as is all the Chiefs and Commanders of the Armed Forces. Why did I mention those names? Because the Armed Forces, the Defence Process as a social process is not foreign from the Left. The Left can handle it very well. Last year, the life and choice of the Prime Minister gave me the heavy duty of the Minister of Migration Policy. Tasia Christodoulopoulos, Yannis Mousalas and I have had the very great honour of impersonating the effort, the hospitality, the solidarity of a people, a people whose democracy and history saved and saved the honor of Europe and Western civilization. One and a half million people went through this country and found care and effort. Today twenty-five thousand people live in apartments, twenty thousand refugees and immigrants in hospitality centres, seven thousand people in tourist accommodation and eleven thousand five hundred in reception and identification centres on the islands. Yeah, there are problems, especially right now in Samos. Yes, we work nights to solve them, as we have solved the corresponding problems in Idomeni, Piraeus, Greek, Patras and perhaps we will meet tomorrow after the Samos problem has been solved, in front of others. SYRIZA colleagues, you must be proud, because you are actively involved in something that concerns both international law and solidarity, but also today democracy in Greece and Europe. We're not afraid, we don't faint, we don't retreat. We do not retreat, Mr. Mitsotakis. Listening to your speech, I was thinking of an old slogan of PASOK: "The people do not forget what it means right!" The problem isn't that. The problem is that the Right doesn't forget what it means right and whenever it turns around, it turns back to its practices and roots. Why are you, Prime Minister - you are not here at this time - accusing New Democracy officials of pressing and trying to terrorize MPs with messages, telephone calls, posters in the streets? Why are you blaming them? He did so today - and even on a pan-Hellenic transmission - the Chief of New Democracy. He was showing with his finger. He called himself shamelessly and made the greatest hybris against Mr Apostolakis, who today may be his political opponent, but Mr Mitsotakis must be retained and attribute the price due to the sailor, which we support in many respects our borders.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u287	Has Mr. Apostolakis become a SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u288	Do you, Mr. Javarra, have any prohibitions that some people can become one or the other? I'll see you soon afterwards because you're from that part of the New Democracy, you yourself, Mr. Javarras, who I don't think you can be described as an extreme preservative. I'd at least enlist you to Central Right, so listen to it below. As far as Macedonia and northern Macedonia are concerned - as you say - I can discuss with those who are sensitive or afraid - who are afraid of? - for name's sake, but I urge them first of all to look at your past. When the People's Republic of Yugoslavia named one of Macedonia, was SYRIZA a government? When the Federation of Socialist Republics of Yugoslavia, a country that was broken up, was SYRIZA a government? And you do not understand that since the break-up of this country as has happened - and I have a lot to judge about it - six of the seven countries keep their name. Croatia is called Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina is called Bosnia-Herzegovina, etc. And a country under a debate and a historic agreement changes its name and accepts a name geographically, agrees that the history and culture of ancient Macedonia are Greek and boldly opens the way for cooperation with us. I have a question here, because as Mr Javarras said earlier, it is an issue if the opposition has arguments, but it has questions. So let us say that the Communism has questions too. Who are apostates really? Those who change their position and attitudes why do they think they will have micro-party benefits or who remain and insist that national is what is true and recognise that today we have to go with soil diplomacy rather than blood diplomacy and they are hiding? I heard something nice the other day, and I want to carry it. If I ask you if you see the elephant that is currently circulating in the House and tell me "no" and say "Have you seen what's hiding well?" that's how the other issue comes in. If I say to you: Take the deal and see what procedures favour autism. Does it favour the fact that they will be called a Macedonian ethnic? And the Albanians who say they're Albanians will be a nation of Macedonian Albanians, etc.? And if everyone says 'no, that's not what the agreement says', you will tell me 'Have you seen what good they're hiding it from the agreement?' Here we are dealing with the case where the party benefit is placed above patriotic ones, and I am really saddened that left parties are joining this position. Since when do international solidarity and class struggle have forced us to make use of even issues that go beyond nationalism - I do not want to say the next place - to forbid another people from choosing something different to which we do not agree? If the leftists in northern Macedonia do not want their country in NATO or in the European Union, then give them help, but not by tricks, from another country. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, your experience must have taught you that these Syrians, men and women, these left-wing women, men and women, we are hard nuns. It is certain that the elections will take place in 2019, in their constitutional time. We have confidence in the Greek people and the Greek people who recognize and participate in our efforts for a future that he deserves, will once again touch with confidence in SYRIZA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u291	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u292	Greece is accused of 'allies' - mainly by the east - of the money that its budget gives for defence annually, most of them go to wages and pensions and thus fails to fulfil its obligation, at least 20% of them to go to research and equipment. All of us who participate in an international fora are giving a race, fuelling with evidence from your Ministry, from your own ministers, from yours - I mean on your day - LOVE to prove that we are responding to this evidence. And it now comes here, former Minister of National Defence to answer the Communist Party, to answer, in other words, arguments coming from the left, to alter numbers that the entire National Representation gives everywhere, throughout the planet, to prove that what we sign up to it. That's a repetition if it didn't become unconscious. To give an accurate explanation from a competent minister, not an unauthorized person.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u293	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Corinth High School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u295	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u296	First of all, Mr Loverdo, the Communist Party of Greece does not need a lawyer. She can answer me, although I didn't blame it. That's the one. The second thing I need to remind you is what the whole world knows about you and you, namely that the country's budget is published, public and everyone knows it. So to him, the country's budget, as far as the Ministry of National Defence - and it does not need to be at the Ministry of National Defence to know that, for example, I do not think that you have ever been there, I do not remember at least - the budget is at least 3.2 billion of which are operating costs, 500 million concerns armament programmes, and that is where it is wages and other costs, travels, etc. That's well known. So don't tell me - because that's what you're saying - that I'm betraying some omerta of the House to the outside mechanisms. You seem to be a Christian good, but you're making a tragic mistake. We have done so a hundred thousand times here and in the Committee on Armaments. And NATO is saying that Greece is surpassing - and on this basis Mr Koutsoubas also relied on - 2%, which should be about the Ministry of National Defence. And you know that we are at 2.2%, we are, - unfortunately, I would say - the second country, but we have a certain threat, after the United States of America.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u297	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u298	Not to have an interactive conversation, Mr. Loverdos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, it needs to be fully understood, not for me, I have no personal problems. Minister, I have no problem taking the floor to defend the Communist Party, nor am I in the mood, nor do I need it, but it concerns my country as well as your country. Indeed, we have more than 2% armaments costs, 229% in fact. And while we are arguing against our allies that despite the crisis Greece is all right with its obligations, we are opposed, on an initiative coming from the east, to the fact that the Greeks say that, but the money gives it to wages and pensions, they do not give it for their obligations and, therefore, the classification of the budget is defective in its interpretation. And the defence of our country, we all have it, not only do you or your own rulers have it. The way you've been placed is defying your own figures, so I made the intervention. But that's not what you understand either.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u300	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u301	There can be no dialogue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u302	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but Mr. Loverdos accuses me of revealing the country's secrets. Don't you understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u303	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u304	Am I wrong? Anyway, I've answered what I've said. Hold it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u305	We're moving on with SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Ursuzides. Here, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u306	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Spyros Danellis on his directness in assessing the truth of this particular juncture. Today's debate on the vote of confidence in the government is taking place at the initiative of our Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, in order to complete his work, on a number of issues relating to the hard work made by the Greek people over the last four years, because it is time to implement measures that will obviously alleviate and improve his daily life. But, to be honest, the reason is the imminent ratification of the understanding and cooperation agreement between our people and our northern neighbours. There has been enough hypocrisy, backwardness and political destiny. All of us in the face of our responsibilities. From the outset I would like to make it clear that I consider the Prespecies Agreement to be a leading political act of responsibility to the Greek citizens and especially to those who trusted me in the Greek Parliament. In the debt of spilling plenty of light on each side of the Macedonian question, looking for a credible answer to the torture and impeccable question why the Macedonian to rip the Greek people so intensely, for so many years, two are the sources that I call upon: The first relates to the testimony of a very important political man who first lived things and described them clearly, straightforwardly. I refer to Leonidas the Kyrkos and to his covet, "The deadlock of nationalism", written in 1994, in the heart of events. I read the text that he chose to read first: For a year and a half, the issue of Skopje recognition has been dominated by our national lives. At the same time in the Balkans there were profound changes and Greece had all the preconditions for playing a prominent role. This was a historic opportunity which, if our country were to take it, could have increased its international position for decades. Instead, the efforts made remained in one single, that the neighbouring democracy under the name of Macedonia or any of its derivatives should not be recognised. The New Democracy Government step by step led the country to suffocating and allowed Ankara to install the northern arm of the Islamic arch along our borders from Albania to Bulgaria. In the nationalist outrage that led the steps, PASOK also participated with the impregnable auction in the disinfection of the name. No national effort could do as much damage as the impulsive and erroneous policy implemented. In the context of general crisis and generalised unreliability, the people gave their soul to the case and participated in the major mobilisations in order to convince foreigners, those who had not been sufficiently informed. In fact the only uninformed and misinformed was him, because his leadership proved incredibly less than the truth of the moment. This people must not come out of the test with a sense of defeat. It will not be the nation's defeat, but it will be the defeat of a specific deadlock policy that sacrificed too much on the altar of party competition, easy demagogicism and electoral calculations. When today's inconvenience passes, that should not be forgotten. Unfortunately, history repeats itself like a bad-looking prank. After a quarter of a century he again attempts to fool us, attempts again with demagogy and electoral terminology to send us another half-century back to dissent and torment. Well, no, we must not allow that. Besides, we've all learned our lessons. The second source relates to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the conference on 'The legal aspects of the Prespecies Agreement'. Special scientists with different approaches to the issue were asked to submit their views equally in order to understand the content of the agreement and the consequences it produces for the two peoples and not just. "If you don't know the historical facts, it's not easy to understand," the experienced historical Slavologist of Aristotle Slavologist Spyros Sfette who has been following the issue for over thirty years and says that the agreement is the best that could be achieved. The negative effects of the agreement are not so painful to pose national risks, while the main lines we had on the subject were covered. The term "Macedon" because of antiquity is intertwined with Hellenism. We want to demarcate identities between Hellenism and Slavism, without recognising a Macedonian nation. This delimitation of the sign "Macedonia" is the spirit spreading throughout the Agreement. Another ancient Macedonia, it is understood, is all there linked to Hellenism and another 19th and 20th centuries. In terms of language, their language is officially referred to as "Macedonian" in the science of Slavology and it goes without saying that it is Slavic. For this reason, the agreement in this wording states that it belongs to the family of southern Slavic languages, Article 7(4). Therefore, the language of the northern neighbors has nothing to do with the ancient language of the Macedonians, it is Slavic and belongs to the family I mentioned earlier. As to identity, we are not talking about changing identity to eradicate, but delimitation between Hellenism and slavism. I think that is the spirit of the Prespecies Agreement, the distinction between one another and another. Delineate geographical and delimitation of identities. We do not recognise ethnicity, demarcate their Slavic identity from Hellenism. It doesn't change anything for us. Macedonians will continue to call ourselves. Neither the airport of Macedonia nor the University of Macedonia will change a name. As regards the term "Nationality", they themselves translate the Prespecies Agreement into their own language clearly render it with the word "Drzavjanstvo", which is rendered in Greek by the word "Nationality", citizenship, and in English with the word "citizenship". They don't use the term "nationality" that they could, they avoid it, why do they? Following the amendment tabled in the Revision of the Constitution by the seven Members of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, citizenship is quite clear and does not prejudge the ethnic identification of the citizens of the northern neighbour and therefore ethnic and nationality are completely separated, without any doubt, and even constitutionally. Only those who don't want to, don't understand. There is, however, a sad, particularly dangerous category of policies, which, while exercising authority over positions of responsibility in our home country - I am talking about Prime Ministers, Foreign Ministers, Deputy Foreign Ministers - continue to propose the party, the personal interest in what they are supposed to serve, the national one. The deal is a balanced one. Identity issues are defined and there are no national risks. He's putting an end to the counterfeiting of history. The agreement smashes the bluntness and guarantees the borders between the two countries. We've become part of the Balkan problem, part of the solution. Constantine Karamanlis and Constantine Mitsotakis had focused on three issues. One is the name. The name has changed, it has become geographically defined "North Macedonia", with residents of Slavs residing in northern Macedonia. The second is the inviolability of borders. The agreement has a whole chapter on the inviolability of borders. The third is the case of the existence or non-minority in Greece. It is made clear and has already passed in their Constitution that Article 41 is changed and actually says the same thing as the Greek Constitution, which is about the Greek Parliament. In other words, there are no minorities anymore, they have been abrogated. Finally, abroad they are now aware that the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and ancient Macedonia are two completely different things. The prior recognitions of the forty states of the northern neighbour called "Macedonia", once the agreement enters into force, will be history. In conclusion, I would like to thank all the experts who worked responsibly and straightforwardly in order to bring the two peoples to an agreement of mutual understanding and prosperity, particularly the Professor of Archaeology and History, Mr Michaelides and Mr Miltiades Sarigiannidis, for their presence, in order to say exactly the same things before two completely different audiences, that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Society of Macedonian Studies in Thessaloniki. Congratulations! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u307	We're on our way with the Congressman of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Cassidy. Here you go, Mr. Cassidy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u308	We are experiencing moments of national crisis. We are at a historic turning point as critical as that found by the Greeks in October 1912, when soldier King Constantine was found before a very great dilemma. The Greek army had crushed the forts of the Turks in Sarentapor, it had precipitated, destroyed twenty-five thousand Turks in the city of Giannitsa, the Turkish army was running out to Thessaloniki and then a huge dilemma was set in Constantino: If it would advance east, to understand the largest geopolitical center of the north, the city of Thessaloniki, or if it would turn to the Greek Monastery. And I say Greek Monastery, because the Monastery and all its province were deeply Greek. Only the Greek was spoken by his residents. In the official Turkish censuses, there were two hundred sixty thousand Greeks in the province of Monastry, who were actually over three hundred thousand in 1912. And one asks where these Greeks are today. These Greeks remain in slave Macedonia, in the northern part of Macedonia, which is currently held by foreign power and have suffered propaganda, have been persecuted. But these Greeks have not lost their national identity and it is criminal and betrayal to say in the Greek Parliament that there are no Greeks in the Skopje region. Equally a critical historic turning point with the one I mentioned, experienced the nation and in 1991, when we had a second chance to understand these centuries-old Greek territories, when Milosevic himself, as President of still united Yugoslavia, had proposed to the then Greek governments, in Mitsotakis and Papandreou, to split Skopje and share them together Greece and Serbia. And then we had just as much betrayal leadership as we have today. The Greek people seem to be never learning, because then a Mitsotakis was in things, as today a Mitsotakis is about to be in things. Then a Papandreou was Prime Minister. Today, a caucasian of Papandreou, Alexis Tsipras, we have the misfortune to run the country - I beg your pardon. We therefore have a treacherous agreement, which does not only grant the name, gives the name of a region of Greek territory, thereby giving the Skopje the right to take on the course of other grounds in their saturation. When the name of a Greek region is assigned, a region of Greek territory you are a step towards the assignment of Greek territory. That is why this treasonal agreement is illegal, it is against the Greek Constitution, even if they vote for one hundred and fifty, even if they vote for eighty, even if there are two hundred eighty or three hundred MPs voting for it. This agreement is illegal, historically unacceptable, unconstitutional and against Greek interests. SYRIZA seeks a hundred and fifty-one MPs to give today a vote of confidence to give tomorrow a vote for the shameful Ambassadors' agreement. These MPs who will do this national crime will be written in the darkest pages of Greek history as traitors of the Greek nation. And I will go to Tsipras and tell him what the people are saying today: You are a traitor, a holler, a mutilator of the Greek nation. This lousy and treacherous Prespecies Pact can be compared only with these crimes your political ancestors, the Communists and gangs in 1949, when again in collaboration with the Slavs of Skopje fought, they lifted the weapons against the Greek nation to separate Macedonia from the Greek territory. And then, as you well remember, the Greek army crushed them and buried them in Grammos and Vicci. I'm not going to make any special reference to Kammenos. That man would just be a eulogy, a liar carpenter. He was also a disgraceful traitor, who, in his attitude, gave breath to this resurrected Greek, in this nationalist motif of SYRIZA and ANEL that has dissolved Greece over the last four years. But I have to talk about the political fraud of the New Democracy. I shall say the words that have been said by the representatives of the New Democracy, who have exactly the same betrayal attitude on the issue of Macedonia as their ex-national traitors, SYRIZA and Kammenos. So Dora Bakoyannis recently said: "I haven't changed position in the scroll since 2000. I say 'yes' in northern Macedonia. This said at SYRIZA radio station on July 24th. Likewise, Dendias, Parliamentary Representative today, an official line of the New Democracy: 'The New Democracy's position is a complex name called 'Macedonia'. These are in order to clarify in the National Representation Hall, who are the patriots and who are the traitors, who have the right to speak about national laws and who must remain silent. We are at the core of a severe geopolitical conflict. All the great powers are urging, their interests conflict in the region of Amos. In Greece, therefore, a national leadership is needed, because scaffolding is a huge national issue. Only one national leadership of the Golden Dawn could resolve in a way that I have explained in detail in this Chamber, allowing Skopje to be dissolved, allowing the Slav and Albanian conflict to expand. That would be if we put our right to the veto for the entry of Macedonia into NATO and the European Union, we blocked all the accession negotiations and led Skopje to a conflict that would certainly take us back to what I said in '91, when it would be an opportunity for Greece to enter even with military forces in Skopje as a peace force and to do again these lands that have been ours for centuries. There is one prophecy - because the prophecies are the ones that speak to the people’s soul and not the hollow words of politicians - of Patrocosma, which says: “They will first come a fake. Don't believe it. He'll go back." This fake romance is these disgusting memorialist, ethnicist governments of recent years. He will leave behind the flawless and will come a truly national leadership of the Golden Dawn in Greece, which will overturn - and I stress this, because there are a lot of lies that the Greek people hear from coexistence and supposedly opposition, that he says he does not overturn the treacherous Prespecies Pact - this treacherous pact, he will make this treacherous pact alike with a law. It will stop the Greek state from recognising the right to use the term "Macedonia". And on the basis of the document sent by the Secretary-General of the People's League - Golden Dawn to the United Nations, NATO, but also to Skopje, the Prespecies Pact will cease to apply unilaterally. From there on, time will be ours and we will veto, we will put the right to veto at every stage of Macedonia's accession negotiations with NATO and the European Union. SYRIZA must fall. Of course, Golden Dawn will also vote against the proposal to trust this terrible conflict. SYRIZA has to fall because it is the cause of the nation's destruction, because together with the New Democracy, to be honest, he voted for all ethnicist bills, the third memorandum, the Islamization of Greece through the creation of Islamic mosques, the hot spots for illegal immigrants and handed over the country to anarchy and terrorism. So SYRIZA must fall and raise a new Golden Dawn of Hellenism. Because only in this way will we preserve the sanctuaries and loyalties of Greece, we will salvage the name of Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u310	The President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u311	It is not possible for this Chamber to hear about treason and treason when, in fact, the speaker - and it was very explanatory - is based not on a rhetoric of extreme division or opinions or on anything else, but on a logic of incrimination on our part now, perception, over time, even historically, in three phases, as analysed earlier and for intervention, obviously in all these three phases that have intervened to dissolve the neighbouring country. This is a challenge, I would say without precedent. Because at least there are precedents in this regard. However, because it is an issue, which is confessed to some aspects of the past, in 1991 and another, unforgettable and from other aspects which do not have the courage, the courage, everything - I do not care - Mr Cassidiaris puts it in here, namely the issue of a Greek perversion of military interventions and military adventures in our region, I mention it. I think this is an extreme challenge. I repeat, it is not so much the characterization of treason, traitors and the others, which we have heard for so long and which the Greek people have appreciated and will hear. That's what they call them. But above all, it is the investment that has been invested in history, philosophical, geostrategic and policy, which has been analysed for the first time in this Chamber and which is an open challenge. We're all, I think, intelligent in here. At noon we heard the Chief of the People's Association of Golden Dawn. I would like to say that this is the second, third time that some pretexts are being held at the level of the debate, when it is at the level of the leaders. But then, immediately, a representative of this party says 100% of his opinion, which in this case is extremely dangerous, splitting, anti-grassroots for the whole of our region, unequivocal and extremely dangerous for the country's international relations. I have to make this statement on the basis of the views that have been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds for one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u314	Mr. Cassidy, politically analyzed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u315	No, Mr. President. My name has been mentioned, and under the Rules of Procedure I am entitled to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u316	Deal. He didn't say anything about you. I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u317	I'm going to respond very mildly to the level of history.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u318	Let me ask you not to start a rivalry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u319	I won't have any controversy. However, historically, I have an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u320	Here, Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor for a minute. My name has been mentioned and I know that under the Rules of Procedure I am entitled to the floor. Well, two things happen: Or the President of the Parliament did not observe my words or is not a knowledgeer of Greek history and Greek language. He spoke, first of all, about using the army. As known, in 1912, I referred to the period of the Balkan Wars, Greece was extended. Epirus, Macedonia, Thrace, the Aegean islands were liberated using weapons. The Greek army released these lands that are now free and Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u321	And agreements signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u322	Excuse me, Mr. President. You'll have time to answer later. But allow me. It is not appropriate to interrupt a Member, a member of the national delegation at the time he is buying. In 1991 it was Milosevic's suggestion that the state of Skopje should be divided into two pieces, one in Serbia and the other in Greece. This is a historic event that cannot be called into question. And I don't take any position. From there on, as far as my reference to today is concerned, Skopje would actually lead to civil disputes if there were no such intervention to join NATO. And then I said - beware of me - that Greece could intervene as a peacekeeping force. You heard my words. They've been recorded in the minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u323	Mr. Cassidy, excuse me. This is a political analysis. It's not personal. Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u324	I am talking about Greece's intervention as a peacekeeping force, and you say that I am a warrior. I have nothing else to answer, Mr President. In the Greek people's crisis, what we all do and what we all do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u325	You requested the floor on staff. It was a political analysis of what you did. Please have your views, which are judged by the world. We shall now proceed to Mr Amanatidis, Member of the SYRIZA. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u326	Thank you very much. The betrayal of fascism and Nazism is betrayal against man, it is betrayal against human values. And unfortunately, these were heard in a day when the Blessed Paul was sleeping, who, by his word, stood impediment to what we just heard from the Golden Dawn. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have had the honour of serving for three years at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, exercising what Mr Nikos Kotzias and Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras have been doing since the beginning: active, multidimensional, independent foreign policy. Mr President, I will try to talk about issues which have not been heard so far. My assessment is this: New Democracy is currently dominating - and has been said by many speakers - by its extreme right wing and by its side. But what happens in the New Democracy is consciously trying to drive it and prevail in the country. It leads the country consciously to the extremes. She even has people in her vagina who haven't been apologised. It was only then that they were justified to be right-wing activists and that that period was a period of trouble. New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis have urged the Prime Minister of the country that he signed where six other Prime Ministers did not sign. The answer is simple. The other six Prime Ministers did not sign up for it because they did not achieve the national objectives and the national line, because they refused it and never accepted it, they never had this success. Or wasn't there a national position, what Mr. Mitsotakis is trying to avoid? On 11-7-2017, in a timely question here in Parliament, Mr Mitsotakis - the entire political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was ahead and the Prime Minister and you can refer to the video - he asked and answered Mr Leventis, saying that Parliament has a national position. It's been formulated twice. First of all, in the 2007 New Democracy Programme Declarations. Refer to the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On 30 October 2007, the New Democracy's programming positions with Prime Minister Konstantinos Karamanlis and Foreign Minister Dora Bakoyannis were as follows: Don't look back on Father Constantine Mitsotakis. In the videos that are circulating, it says: 'Yes to the complex name, or else we will go to the scene of Macedonia'. In 1995 with a government of Papandreou, the Interim Agreement was signed by Carolos Papoulias. It was an agreement that never came from the Greek Parliament. Kyriakos Mitsotakis does not know there is a national position. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Dendia, it's very easy to be joking with these things. But when you go to divide the Greek people into national issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u327	Are you insane? If you suffer from gravitation, it's not my fault. I made a joke to my colleague, Mr. Vaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u328	I'm so sorry. On 09-01-2018 Kyriakos Mitsotakis said that the country has a national line in Bucharest in 2008, which is a acquis as a whole. On 4-4-2008 Constantine Karamanlis answered a question from the journalist, Nikos Metti. The question was: 'He changed something about the geographical name and the erga omnes?' And the answer: 'We are talking about a clear, composite name'. It was also the time when Mr Antonis Samaras was the Prime Minister, and Mr Evangelos Venizelos was the Vice President and Minister of Foreign Affairs. On 28-09-2014, at the 69th UN General Assembly, Mr. Venizelos addressing the Step of the UN General Assembly said the Greek position is a complex geographical name. So why didn't you sign? It is precisely because you have never had the success of this agreement, namely a complex geographical name, erga omnes, with constitutional changes - which we have added - for the destruction of alkaliism and all uses. And don't tell me that the negotiations were then made by the Prime Ministers, Foreign Ministers, for fun, and that if tomorrow or the day after tomorrow they were told that we accept the complex geographical name, they would not sign it. You have also failed to do so. On 11-06-2018 you charged us with secret diplomacy. On 2-10-2018 Mrs Spiraki met with Mr Zaev. The agreement overturns the negative data that had been created for our country over the past period. I would also like to call on all those who believe that they will not give up and fall into the trap of nationalism, which leads to dangerous perverts. As far as the ecclesiastical is concerned, now. On 30-04-2018 with an announcement from the Ecumenical Patriarchate, Prime Minister Zaev and ten bishops of the neighbouring country submit a request to the Ecumenical Patriarchate calling for autonomy or self-headage under the name "Achridis Archdiocese and all Justinian" This is deliberately hidden. And it is also hidden from clergymen, who know exactly what exists. So they should not fall in good faith in what they are trying to hide. It's hope against fear. They try to fear and say that there will be no more Paul Mellas, the Macedonian War, the Balkan Wars. Don't get upset. Already the maps have changed. The "BBC" upstairs had the "North Macedonia" and down our area as Macedonia. The Macedonian struggle will still be celebrated, because it is the struggle that we have given to liberate from the Ottoman Empire and that will continue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. Are there any safeguards? First of all, it's constitutional reform. Amendment 33 and the constitutional law, which has been published on 12 January in the newspaper of the Government of the neighbouring country, where it says that, from the day of entry into force of Amendment 33, citizenship will be Macedonian - a citizen of the Republic of Northern Macedonia who does not specify or predetermine the nationality to which the citizens belong. It is a constitutional law now in the neighbouring country. Does anyone have anything to say about that? What are the safeguards in our country? Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the people who are well-being feared that this will not be the case. It is another criticism of the agreement itself and of whether or not they will apply it, as they did with the interim agreement. Are there any safeguards? Yeah. First of all, it's the same deal. It does not allow for a change in the articles that speak of the name. Secondly, it sets the difference between the International Court of The Hague. Thirdly, and most importantly, ladies and gentlemen, this country's progress towards its accession to the European Union passes through Greece. What other safeguards do you want plus constitutional changes? And the second thing I want to share with you, ladies and gentlemen - and I am closing, Mr President - is that I was thinking and saying if possible Mr Mitsotakis, who is the only one in the world who says that we did not come out of the programmes that he is destroying, he should not see it. I think Mr. Mitsotakis sees it. He does not just want to reduce the success of the government, but he also builds for the future, because he wants to justify his programme with restrictive policies, but also to say that the crisis is not over and, therefore, social rights and social goods will be cut off, as unfortunately, he has unsuccessfully tried to hide at his last meeting. But there is one obstacle and that is still the Greek people. As much as you are baptizing "last ruffles" the revision of the Constitution, the hundred and twenty instalments, the increase of the minimum wage and the abolition of the subordinate, the measures for the first residence, you are not going to hit anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Amanatidis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u330	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say this on your prelude that this government has been falling for three years. As long as positive measures are implemented, which will have a positive effect on society and you will not have a counter-proposal with arguments in the new Greece how to move forward, the less you will be reduced. That is why you want the government to fall down at all costs. Represent the old and the few. We represent the young and the many. A judge of all our people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u331	Thank you. New Democracy MP Mr. Tsiara has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to make a reference to the memory of Dimitris Sioufas not only because we have been fellow citizens, but because it was one of the most emblematic figures of the Greek political scene, but of course also of the Greek Parliament since post-Civilisation. I will begin by joining the well-known - I would say to you familiar - waters of SYRIZA Members. Max Webber, ladies and gentlemen, in his essay on the relationship between Politics and Ethics, had asked the following question: When and to what extent can morally good purposes sanctify morally dangerous means and side effects? Right in the face of this dilemma is the Greek Parliament today in discussing the proposal for a vote of confidence created by the Prime Minister, because today in the political landscape there is a time-limited Prime Minister who is seeking a little more time for his collapse. But what means, and in what way? Through a poor pragmatism, the SYRIZA-ANEL co-government trying to trick citizens, creating double majorities once again. Let's not be fooled. The exclusive objective of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos is not to clarify their accounts, but to continue to co-operate with borrowers of a political "money" account. So the first, Mr. Tsipras, will be able to continue to represent the Prime Minister of an opportunistic parliamentary majority, while the second, Mr. Kammenos, will continue to be the President of a parliamentary party enjoying the privileges of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and the Greek state. For the moral code of the radical left, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the forthcoming vote of confidence by the "willing six" - we have heard the terrible reasoning from the Prime Minister - is not considered a apostasy, it is not a trade product under the table, it has no exchanges and annulled the MPs, it does not conceal flexible consciences and immoral policies for the redemption of MPs, because, of course, the vote of confidence in this government is not conducted - and I am always talking about you, for your own perception - in the same morbid climate in December 2014, when we were trying to reach consensus in the election of a new President of the Republic, in order to maintain the stable course of repair of our country. For the later co-pilots, for SYRIZA and the ANELs, at that time we resurrected in 1965 and the dirty practices of the para-state. Today, however, in the days of the SYRIZA government, the willing ones rush to rescue the "successful" left government and its Prime Minister from moral obligation, obviously, toward its achievements. They correct their political stature with a sense of responsibility against all those who are supposedly working to destabilise the country. We don't just know who they are. Finally, it turns out that from "political love" to the results of the governance of Mr. Tsipras, this marriage is concluded, not of course, by an arrogant, which is the ministries and positions on the lists. But we'll all see about this right after. These and other proverbs hear a lot from the government officials to justify this small-political bazaar, with which they try to rescue their chairs. But whatever the outcome of this process, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the legitimacy of this government has been irreparablely shredded. In the same essay, ladies and gentlemen, Weber notes that: "The honour and credibility of the politician lies precisely in his personal responsibility for what he does, a responsibility which he cannot and must not deport or move." And today we are all in the middle of our responsibility for the citizens and above all for the country. So I urge you not to give Mr Tsipras a vote of confidence. I would ask you to vote against Mr Tsipras for all the lies he has made, for his deep contempt for the democratic institutions of Parliament and for justice, for the revival of the party and the client state and for favorability, for the maintenance of a divisional rhetoric of other times, for the signing of the Embassy Agreement. I would ask you to vote against Mr Tsipras, because there has been an inexperienced, merciless and opportunistic Prime Minister. I invite you to refuse the vote of confidence, because now disharmony - and the President of the New Democracy said so earlier, Mr Mitsotakis - between the popular feeling and the present parliamentary connections. Elections now, ladies and gentlemen, to give an answer to all the open issues from the economy to national issues, particularly the Ambassadors' agreement, the citizens themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, too. The Minister of State, Mr. Vernardakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is calling for a clear mandate, a clear vote of confidence, a substantial vote of confidence and an opportunity to take a few things from the outset. The Memorandums were imposed in a number of European countries, as we all know, under the acute crisis of the neoliberal model, a crisis expressed in a public debt crisis in the Eurozone and posed risks to European financial institutions. He was a descendant of the over-accumulation crisis that rocked the world markets and took a financial form in the famous bubbles of the various markets. Memorandum policies were implemented through the implementation of extreme economic internal policies to underestimate the work and haircut of the social state and the financial interests of workers. In Greece, because the memorials imposed by the ruling political forces were considered - and it was, in fact - a break in the existing post-colonial social contract, they literally dissolved the political system. They have developed a political system of multi-purpose customer relationships, complex routes of proprietaryity of public resources and of distribution of the resources of European programmes. Just remember the three Community Support Frameworks before and at least one ESDP, what runs from 2007 to 2013. In the memorial conditions of violent decline in the incomes of weaker people's strata, wagers and retired persons, the resistances were decisive for the cohesion and fate of the political forces. The ruling PASOK literally collapsed not only in terms of its percentages, but also as a form of political mediation, as a management culture and as an anthropological approach to politics, after almost thirty years of hegemonic presence in the Greek society. The New Democracy was able, at first instance, to escape without any particular consequences, because it has demonstrated reasonable opportunism to end up in the 'no sinless' before Angela Merkel, highlighting bilingualism as a structural component of the political presence of this party to date. But there have been consequences for this transformation. During the Memorandum of Understanding New Democracy strengthened and legitimised the government's presence at the beginning of the well-known extreme right-wing form, the People's Orthodox Alert, as it sought alliances to its right, in the area where nationalist and far-right criticisms of the Memorandums prevailed. In fact, at that time the new radical right, which flirts or even reconciles with forms of fascism, thrives on the fertile manure of the garden of neoliberal economic policy. Of course, the fall of LAOS has come because of the opportunism of its leadership, but it has brought a great deal of consistency, the parallel rise in the Nazi structure of the Golden Dawn, and it has brought to the fore what we all know today in Greece - of course it is also a wider European phenomenon - the fascist threat. This is one of the most important consequences of the Memorandum of Governance. The violent change in the terms of the social contract of post-population with extreme austerity and mass poverty presupposed an absolute suppression of democratic and labour rights and an absolute legitimacy in the public sphere of racism, social intolerance, sexism, historical illiteracy. The Golden Dawn became a privileged interlocutor in society, but its political word was legitimized and accepted by wider, marginal now, social strata. The accession of the New Democracy to the Memorandum of Monument Block and the coexistence with the PASOK and LAOS initially, or later with DIMAR, the political governance of Papademos, the extreme economic, political and social extremism, the inconvenience of the repressive suppression of political staff, the unreliability of the leading elites and the collapse of confidence in institutions, in the press and so on. Justice was also severely affected by the decisions of its supreme bodies on the constitutionality of the Memorandums and wage cuts, while they vigorously renounced efforts to reduce their own remuneration. The whole system was sinking into absolute decency, due to the high corruption of the scandals and the white collar crimes. The system of governance by the parties that implemented the policies of the first memoranda led the country to the brink of bankruptcy. SYRIZA received this situation when he defeated the 2015 elections. In this tent of questioning and crisis, both political mediation and social representation of political parties, SYRIZA claimed and achieved to some extent a political hegemony. An event of major importance, which we should once discuss under the terms of a serious public debate, an event of importance for the political life of the country and the emergence of the SYRIZA to the government was the separation of part of the New Democracy and the formation of the Greek Independent Party expressing a tendency to the anti-immemorial right. This party was a hybrid motif of the people's right with an anti-memorandum mark, while coexisting contradictory ideological views that were initiated by caramanic radical liberalism and reached outdated and sometimes overconservative views and nationalist ideals, but also with an unequivocal intention to clear up the political system. In order to build a hegemony of intervention by the Left in crisis conditions of the political system, the need for alliances has emerged. The forces of the old political system could not agree and SYRIZA could not accept such a development, given their ties or at least a large part of them, with the system of interlocutory and clipping established in the country. Under these conditions, the solution of an allied government with the ANELs has become a one-way route. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government has been the subject of strong controversy and criticism from the old bipartite system of power, not both for the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of the government project, but for the different political and ideological identity of its components. What was disturbing, of course, the system was not the ideological incompatibility of the members of the scheme, as long as this alliance enabled the country to rule and achieve its exit from the memoranda with society upright. The old system in both elections was looking forward to playing in the process of commands and the apparent and desirable deadlock in order to become a regulator of the situation and to drag SYRIZA into extreme anti-grass political choices. The New Democracy and the entire traditional political scene invested in the left parental policy, which also involved parts of the state mechanism, the trade union bureaucracy, the media of Mass Information, business interests and agitated all the old political system of the deep state. This policy in all its forms has failed and the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has been the longest-lived government since 2010. That is why the permanent inclination - an excuse for not complicating political forces - with SYRIZA - to the Government, even the subject of mocking was, throughout the four-year period, that - within introductory - "inappropriate" partnership. If we take into account, however, for the sake of children, the Freudian approach to the narcissism of small differences and its consequences, we could argue that the more obvious and extremist incompatible the differences are, the more stable it is a collaborative scheme. So this government alliance of SYRIZA - ANEL was an extremely good political option. It was in the shape of a political context the most reliable solution both internally and abroad. It has been negotiated with dignity and consistently with lenders. It managed to measure the protection of the weakest layers despite difficulties, drawbacks and tensions, produced work and, as a government, pulled the country out of the mortal spiral of the Memorandum Policies of the period, as it had committed. This contradictory ideological government produced the most rightful bills that the Greek Parliament has ever passed. For those who see the political process as a democratic, active and participatory process, they know very well that for SYRIZA and the left forces, this was an exercise of the gramsian model of claiming ideological hegemony. Memorandums and austerity policies liberated forces historically expressed by Right, Central Right and Political Liberalism. These powers were available at the time for another model of political exercise and the Left undisturbed and with respect for the political origins of each and every one of them, had to discuss with these thousands of people and that was what they did. The exit from the monuments has been equally a catalyst for old parties and their political staff. Partys such as PASOK, LAOS, DIMAR, who have recommended and implemented memorandum policies have reached the limits of shrinkage or dissolution. The New Democracy recorded its lowest election rates. To bring back its diluent tendencies, the New Democracy slid towards the Top Right, adopting its political and ideological practices, making bilingual political manipulation tool and false weapon to declare an internal war as a form of opposition. The New Democracy and today's tactics look forward to the votes that will be extracted from the Golden Dawn, but in this way it has been transformed, by a European party of the People's Right, with centre-right reports and a liberal sign, into a party with clear extreme right-wing references and practices. It has shown that the concept of culture is not for this party but for an oligarchal democracy, a democracy shell, where fascist choice does not seem incomprehensible. Karamanlis' party is mutated by the extreme right Samaras and neoliberal Mitsotakis in a kind of "serious Golden Dawn", in an incubator of the various Savini aspires. As far as KINAL is concerned, the failure of the project is due to the adoption of political matching with the Right, the neoliberal choices, the blind opposition to the government, the lack of a coherent political plan and authoritarian behaviour even towards the political parties involved. The exit from the memorials was initially considered to be virtual. It was appointed by the former major parties of classical bipartisanism, because the memorandum policies are, in fact, the only political proposals and options for these parties. It is obvious that, if they were electorally dominated, they would apply these policies unscrupulously. After all, it has shown it infinitely, even in the last period with the non-reduction of pensions. At the same time, the scandals revealed were seen as preparations against the political staff involved and of course efforts are being made to cover up. And we've reached the Prespecies Agreement. Achieving this agreement today is the new divisive part of the Greek political scene and a catalyst to form a new political scene. The parties of classical old-fashioned bipartisanism are fundamentally again in the sense that the agreement has traced the dividing line between national extroverty and active political approach on the one hand and folding, isolationism and political inertia on the other, in economics and investment, exchanges and external trade, political radiation and influence in the Balkans, culture and tourism. The Embassy Agreement becomes a structural element of the country's productive reconstruction. The oxymoil is that while the two old political parties of bipartisanism have crossed this so-called national line, the PASOK does not even have the opportunity to show it as its own political success, and the New Democracy, aiming toward the extreme right and integrating the well-known Macedonians, distributes its opposition to all tons. In this sense - and because democracy is not a formal matter, but a procedure that is judged by the seriousness of public dialogue and the political responsibility of everyone - with all due respect to these persons, I do not understand why former Prime Ministers who have managed this issue, who have formulated a strategy, which has shaped diplomatic capital, which has produced documents, which have consumed time, are silent and are not placed in public. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, one more minute and I'm done. Exiting from the memorials and the dynamic foreign policy that produced fruits are essential conditions for both production and social reconstruction and the redeployment of the political party system. A new political duplicate is being created today. On the one hand, the progressive forces of the Greek society, with SYRIZA, with the collectives of the Left, with social democrats and socialists, with progressive democrats, with all the left, even conservative citizens who cannot be politically identified with the extreme right choices of their area of political origin. At the other end, reaction forces will be assembled, with a torso of a mutated New Democracy, which will have deported whatever character of the popular liberal right and conservative party will become increasingly diffuse to the extremes. The conditions have matured for the coexistence of a progressive front and the problems are now clearly set as imperative dilemmas. Is there going to be social protection and politics, or will the weaker ones be left to the terrible fate reserved for them by neoliberal policies? Will the wages and living standards of the workers be defended, or will they be established for all the subordinate hunger wages? Will work be protected from employers' arbitrariness by the full reintroduction, consolidation and expansion of collective labour agreements, or will it be thrown north into the farm? Are we going to have a decent public health system, a public education system, or are we going to leave out of misery, expensive studies abroad and private universities for noble genes and miserable degraded public institutions for the children of the people? Will the state become a tool of development and social protection or a repressive mechanism at the hands of the neoliberal elite? The benefits of economic development will be distributed fairly to all those who have fought for them or will they be privatised exclusively by the state-owned elites who have bankrupt the country? Finally, will we build a country with an open foreign policy of friendship, cooperation and freedom, or will we be enlisted in the provincialisation of isolation, in the market nationalism of unscrupulous patriots, in the rapprochement of wealth by the superintendents? We will be on the right side of history, and that is why we are calling for today's vote of confidence in the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u335	Thank you. We proceed with Mr Karathanasopoulos, Member of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr President. The bazaar between the two shareholders of the government, SYRIZA and the ANELs, resulted in a consensus divorce, which facilitates the account of both. It also makes it easier for ANELs to present themselves as a patriotic party, when Mr. Kammens, as Minister of National Defence, handed over land and water to the Americans and NATO. What does patriotism have to do with the strengthening of the American-Natural imperialists? Secondly, it facilitates the SYRIZA Government to present its new account today. What's that? The Prime Minister reiterated this: Net exit from the memoranda with society standing up and proof - he said - is that the state budget is the first memorial budget that takes into account the needs of society and is also budgetaryly expansionary. What's the point, though? That this account is actually crushed. First, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and SYRIZA today legitimised not only his own memorandum, which voted together with the New Democracy and the PASOK, but also the two previous memorandums, since it left intact all the Memorandum laws that were passed over the previous years and even new ones were added. In this respect, therefore, the government's claim that we are trying to regain the job is just a lie. Why is it a lie? It is precisely because she made her own laws of the New Democracy, and in particular the Brutsi Act concerning minimum wages. This is precisely because it is subjugating the needs of workers in the logic of competitiveness and the strength of the economy and capitalist businesses. So, as it will now give some crustaceans as an increase in the minimum wage, tomorrow, if conditions change and economic competitiveness and resistance are undermined, then we may also have a new lower wage reduction. In fact, the lower wage case is a case of the Government, the civil government and not the class dispute between workers and employers resulting in a collective agreement. This results in 25% of workers being paid up to EUR 500 and over half - even 52% - permanent and rotating jobs. Workers over the years, from 2007, before the crisis, until 2017, lose 3.1% of their actual income on an annual basis. That is why one government handes over anti-grassroots and anti-government policy to the other. Secondly, the bloody primary surpluses have been accepted by 2060 and thirdly, permanent and enhanced surveillance. On the 21st of the month, the steps will come to monitor the progress of the Greek economy and to make a report and, on the basis of this report, if the anti-grassroots reforms have gone ahead, a instalment of Greek bonds withheld will be repaid by the central banks. Fourthly, the 2019 budget is anti-grassroots and classic. We have an increase in tax revenue of EUR 1 billion, which will pay off the popular layers, when you are legislating to reduce the corporate tax and reduce the tax on distributed profits, namely for the rich people. For the people, new tax burdens. This tax raid has also led to an increase in those who owe the taxes and are unable to make it. We have a reduction in the total expenditure on public sector workers with the budget - not even a partial increase - to show something different - of the total expenditure on pensions in the 2019 budget, of the reduction in state funding for hospitals, when hospitals' own resources are increased by the mid-term doctorates themselves, so health trading and, of course, hospitals are in a collapse. We have a reduction in the costs of financing municipalities and regions to increase return resources, i.e. local taxes on people. Of course, I have heard the previous Minister say that you are with public education for the children of the people. What you do in education is very revealing. What? You attach even more importance to higher education with the needs of businesses, therefore the European Union's policy. Second, you lead to categorisation of the degrees. Even the New Democracy has not dared to do so. We now have two-year-olds, three-year-olds, four-year-olds, five-year-olds in higher education. In addition to that, we have a deterioration in the substance of the licence and the professional rights it provides. The underfunding of education continues with huge gaps in education staff. The old PASOK, as you accused it, abolished the yearbook in the name of giving new opportunities for young scientists and you today, the Minister of Education abolishes the service to give young scientists opportunities with the same argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u337	Twelve years...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u338	With the same argument, what the old political system has used. This argument is also used by you to proceed with further overthrows. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] So from this point of view, it is not just that, but what are you actually doing? Redistribution of poverty - that is the characteristic - when you are not only shielding, but also expanding privileges in business groups. Take ten and give one. The new measures you claim what they are? It's the reversals in the Katseli Act, the limited protection that has been introduced to increase auctions. The facilitation you are talking about overdue debts is nothing but just to force the world, which, due to the tax raid, cannot get through, to pay thirdly, the so-called'stick allowance', said by the Prime Minister for the first residence, is what has been legislated since 2016 by Stathakis law and which we so far ask whether even a euro has been granted for this housing allowance, which you remembered in 2019. So what are you actually doing? Not only do you continue with class policy, but you also also contribute to it. To what? Upgrading the role and presence of Greece in the Balkans, a part of the Euro-Nath Plan, that is to strengthen the US and NATO presence in the Western Balkans, which are the destabilisation factor. Is there, then, a lasting source of destabilisation and border change in the region in its logic of "dividing and reigning", turning Greece into an advanced basis for American-Russian interests and what in return? The strengthening of the presence and role of Greek businesses in the Balkans. We've seen this work before, Minister. Following the overthrow of the socialist countries, when Yugoslavia was divided by the imperialists, Greek entrepreneurs transferred their businesses to the Balkans. Where did that lead? Of course, the strengthening of the Greek business groups, but it led to unemployment, led to a reduction in the production base and, of course, also to a reduction in the wage rights of workers. In this respect, then, is it evident what issue? That you have received as a government the trust of NATO, the Americans and the European Union. Pyatt's or Merkel's statements recently confirm the truth. For this reason alone alone, that you have received the confidence of the imperialists, the people must condemn you as government, but also the New Democracy and the PASOK, which have exactly the same common strategies. You are converging in the key choices these parties, SYRIZA, New Democracy, PASOK and other satellites, the smaller parties and the moment you're increasingly converging in these key options, you're trying to regain a false diplomacy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. From this point of view, therefore, because your differences between your parties have narrowed, this squeeze of differences allows civil servants to move from one party to another without an end date. That is why the JRC is voting against the current government as an anti-population government and calls on the people to strengthen the JRC in order to make the people stronger, to strengthen their position, to be able through the struggle and the organization of better positions of the struggles to put a stop to the escalation of anti-population policy, but also to pave the way to the true way out, the one that can satisfy modern and expanded people's needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u339	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty-six students and students and four educational sessions from the 3rd Cardits General School. Guys, the House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] MEP of the Independent Greeks Ms. Kollia - Charuha has the floor for seven minutes. I would ask you to keep the time because you realise that we will be forced to reduce the time of other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u340	Yes, Mr President, I will try to be consistent in time. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, when you visit the House with your fellow professors, before I begin my speech, I would like to say to you that I am here today with the pride that God gives to those who dared to make difficult decisions, who have managed to carry out their mission and now stand against people and the god clean and high-headed, believing that they did the right thing and the patriot. In the summer we gave the government confidence, because the exit from the memorials was before us, the exit that would allow us to start lifting from the backs of the Greeks the weights of a decade. We have shown confidence, because what had to be done still had not been done, so that justice would continue to walk the way against the conflict. And I invite her to move faster so that we can get results quickly and go to courtrooms. At the time when there was so much that there was still to be done, the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, was chosen to agree to blackmail in the Prespecies with Skopje. By then he assured us that he would bring in an agreement that the Greek people would accept. The precursor of the Prespecies, in addition to his important problems, wrote in the earlier shoes of Mr Kotzias the founding principles of the government partner, our movement of the Independent Greeks and, unfortunately, the majority of the Greek people. Unfortunately, Mr. Kotzias not only did not bring us an intransigent and foreign name, but he also brought us as a blackmail agreement in those days that we were trying to get the country out of the memoranda to give pensions, a name that is a'red line' for the Independent Greeks, a name that contains the term 'Macedonia'. He thus gave the opportunity to the New Democracy of Mr. Samaras and Mr.Mitsotakis and to PASOK, which still operates under the shadow of Mr.Shititis to change the debate instead of discussing today how Greece will take the next steps away from the crisis and from the shadow of the interlocutory to hide behind their fingers, overlooking the mistakes of the past that led us to the present situation. But I and my competitors in the Independent Greeks weren't afraid, we didn't back off. We have allowed back to the Greeks some of those who have been deprived of so many years by those who have damaged the country, such as the retrospectives of the indictments, to be given an example, as well as the relief measures of the Greek society. The same people who today because of the agreement play the patriots are forgetting the demands of the European People's Party or of the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I was allowed to be caught by certain political offices in my town when I was filing a wreath to honor the dead on 28 October, the war of the '40s or when under the office they were calling out expressions which affect both a woman and a patriot. Even then I kept my head high, because, as I said at the first moment, that was the minimum price to do the right thing for my country. The opposition has unleashed its entire communication mechanism, channels and army of its journalists to tell the lie to date that the Prespecies Agreement is not being taken back. This is the greatest lie, because if this government were to fall, the agreement would end here. If the House does not ratify it - tomorrow it will, as it seems, be brought by Mr Tsipras if he takes the vote of confidence - the agreement is void. If that were not the case, what are we voting on today, ladies and gentlemen? I'm asking you. The opposition, however, today does not dare to do what he said until yesterday. Why are you quiet, gentlemen? Our president, Panos Kammenos, has recently made it clear to you. Make sure that you do not grant the name "Macedonia" and immediately sign the motion of censure with you. Today I heard Mr Mitsotakis, but I did not hear any references to this matter, and it was invited and provoked by the Independent Greeks. You know very well, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that it will not only be us who will support. There will be a lot of those who will follow us. The deal won't pass that way. Why don't you do it? Do not bring us a hypocritical possible in the future and unclear motion of censure, in order for you to do what SYRIZA has decided to do tomorrow. We will not follow you there, because with our partner until yesterday, we disagree in many ways. Already the professor who came down on the Step, the Minister, said as a theoretical and real one, which I accept, because with our partner until yesterday, we may disagree, but he is not "lived". He owes no bills to interests such as you, he doesn't owe millions to the Greek State, he doesn't get bored in scandals. So, then, we won't give the opportunity to throw a government when you want it, to make your own game. We're waiting. You put forward the motion of censure and we are here to cancel the Presidencies' Agreement in full. I expect statements to the Greek people that you will not ratify the agreement that gives the name 'Macedonia', although when you take over the country's governance. You deeply wish - I know and I understand - that the agreement will go through so that you will not be forced to pass it tomorrow. That is why we, the Independent Greeks, are here, because we are the only ones to guarantee the Greek people that it will become all possible to ensure that the agreement does not pass. We insist, ladies and gentlemen, so much on the name of Macedonia, because it is a key element in our history and heritage. His use by others, beyond his true owners, namely us Greeks, contains elements of corrosion and expansional eyelids, elements of the counterfeiting of history and the clear ignorance of the struggles that our nearby ancestors gave for the lands of Macedonia, for Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You're welcome, Mr. President. I'm gonna need two minutes. So what Mr Mitsotakis does is invalid, that he underestimates the concession of the name, by transferring weight to language and ethnicity, something that does not exist. Its purpose is, of course, known. He wouldn't mind giving up the name when he once became a Prime Minister and I challenge him to disprove me. But, as each of us can understand, if the country next door is called "Macedonia" with any determination in front of it, as the advocacy of the Prespecies Agreement brings, all its other features will be called Macedonian. The Independent Greeks do not have the required number of Members to stop the agreement in Parliament, especially if we consider the theft of our officials. But we will do everything possible to cancel it at any level. Our executives from Macedonia and Thrace, as well as legal groups, have already tabled detailed positions setting out the legal problems arising from the agreement, its unconstitutional character, as this is a national issue. I put forward a document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Collia - Tsarouha, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] National issues are of direct relevance to the people's will. These texts identify that the agreement is unconstitutional in many respects. There is also a covert assignment of national sovereignty, clear suppressive pursuits and messages. I have some information, which we will mention if and when it comes to the vote in Parliament, the ratification of this agreement. It is our duty, therefore, as all this applies and as SYRIZA insists that this agreement be ratified, we refuse to vote for confidence. We as Independent Greeks will use every legal method and every way we have at our disposal and call on every healthy democratic and patriotic power to support us in this effort. I close by saying that the only ones who have the right to decide are Greeks by referendum or by national elections. The implementation of the Presidencies Agreement is a national matter of great importance. The fact that the Greek people are not being asked about this, that millions of Macedonians are being baptized extremistly raises a question of democracy. The Greek people demand fair.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u341	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u342	I shall conclude, Mr President. I want to assure you that we will do everything in our power to honour the role and responsibility assigned to us by the Greek people. The base of the Independent Greeks remains strong and you can be sure that he will stand next to us. I would also like to quote the most undeniable proof of Macedonia's Greekity. In the history of Herodotus describing the Battle of Platians in 479 B.C.E., the then king of Macedonia and the ancestor of Alexander the Great, Alexander the I, addressed the Athenians with the following words: "I am also Greek from an old generation and do not want to see Greece slave and free." I will close by saying what I said from the outset and as the Deputy Minister of Macedonia - Thrace and as State Secretary for National Defence, two things that I would like to thank Prime Minister Tsipras publicly. I would therefore like to say something that I firmly believe in: Macedonia is one and it is Greek. Thank you and apologise for the time I took from my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, too. Mr Mavrotas, Member of the European Parliament from the River. Please, if possible, keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr President. I hope my seven-minute will reach me. The Prime Minister's request for a vote of confidence enables the Potami to answer and disprove those who blame him that he has been given the support of the Prespecies Agreement and that, in support of the agreement, he is giving a vote of confidence to the government. So, by separating the two procedures, we are given the opportunity to show that we are voting against the government regardless of our position in the Embassy Agreement. Furthermore, I would like to point out here that the request for a vote of confidence based on the Constitution does not have any specific question, as is the case in the motion of censure. The vote of confidence is about the entire work of the government and whether we trust it to continue. The Embassy Agreement is indeed an important issue, but it cannot be taken over by the government as a whole by a vote of confidence on the basis of this. I have now heard our former Member, Mr Dannelly, but also SYRIZA Members, say that the vote of confidence is about the Prespecies Agreement as a precondition. Then, if that were the case, it should have been the vote of confidence, after the Prespecies's Agreement and then elections, since it was a vote of confidence in the use. The funny thing is, however, that for the ANEL MPs who vote for confidence, but who do not vote for the Ambassadors' agreement, the argument is reversed. "Give a vote of confidence..." you tell them, "and this has nothing to do with the agreement, but with the work of the government." That is why the interpretation of the vote of confidence is a good card, depending on the public. But the vote of confidence cannot be "silloam's swabs" no matter what it follows. With the vote of confidence you are essentially giving a white check by October at the latest. And how could we give a vote of confidence to the government, when on almost all matters we are across? How could we give a vote of confidence to the government, when we consider its work to be destructive and corrosive to education, whose results will take time to correct them? The education of the least common denominator, arrangements and voting practices. How could we give a vote of confidence to the government, which, in the public administration, continues its past customer practices, with a multitude of photographic provisions and notices? How could we give a vote of confidence to a government that is interested in producing only overcrowded surpluses of over-taxation and goes far under the strand of growth and investment? As we said in the budget debate, the increase in investment, for example, for 2018, predicted 11.4%, i.e. the index of gross fixed capital formation and ultimately had a 0.8% increase for 2018, which is fourteen times below. How could we give a vote of confidence to a government that has kneeled the middle class, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which businessmen are actually working to pay taxes and insurance contributions so that they do not have an incentive to produce any more? But you say, "But how do you not give a vote of confidence to the government that brings the Ambassadors' agreement with which you agree?" We believe, and we will discuss it in the next few days if it comes to Parliament, that the Prespecies Agreement is the result of a negotiation with more positive than it is negative for our country and that is why we support it, so that we can finally change a de facto page. What's that? The monopoly of the name "Macedonia" by the "former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia" and force them to change the Constitution. We must see the future with national self-confidence, without unjustified fears, so that we can play the role of the leader of power and the pillar of stability in the region. However, the most negative part of the agreement is the work of the agreement, which took place within the political scene. At first by the government to pervade the Opposition, and then by the Opposition in order not to break its unity. So the arguments were lost in the analogys, the dialogue was lost in the bullying. The known black and white Greece. Also, to a large extent, the agreement is also a result of the international context that is difficult to find in the future. In conclusion, then, the Prespecies's Agreement is not enough to get in as a makeup, to squeeze into the government's tragic inadequacies. And let us also go to the current ones: Mr Dannelly's secession from our parliamentary group is unfortunately giving us food to those who want to set up loan scenarios for Members. In no case will the river leave any suspicion that it will be burnt to the position of Kammenos or that it is involved in a parliamentary cutting-up, although in this Parliament, and above all with responsibility for the major parties, we have been stricken up by the withdrawals and transfers of Members. And another thing: the vote of confidence goes through by a relative majority and with less than a hundred or fifty Members. A hundred and fifty - one was not necessary if the reason you invoke was indeed the Prespecies Agreement. That is why we regard as a 'beneath the zone' to Potami, a party that has set backs in support of the Prespecies Agreement, and in which the government is looking forward to its vote, the fact that the government is practically overhauling a Member of Parliament to go to a number of hundred and fifty-one, which, as the Prime Minister said, will give him air to govern until October as a maximum limit. Unfortunately, from the "we'll upset you in legality" you've gone to "we'll upset you in feasibility". Our opinion as a River for the Prespecies Agreement itself does not change. What is changing now is the political framework in which it comes. Is that changing our attitude? My opinion is that in this equation it must surely reflect the national interest, of course also in view of the general political climate, and we will find this way to be appropriately expressed. To conclude, Potami will no longer give a vote of confidence to the government, will vote against it because it considers its mandate to be harmful in the past and, unfortunately, there is no improvement in its short-term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u345	Thank you very much, Mr Mavrotha, particularly for the consistency in time. The reason for this is the independent Member, Mr Nicholas, for seven minutes. Please, Mr Nicolopoulos, be in time, because we will be forced to reduce the time for the rest of the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u346	I can't avoid temptation. "National attitude and responsibility," the Potami agrees, he says, with the agreement, but because Mr. Tsipras has made him happily, he will think about it if he votes. What can I say? As I see the President from the first moment until she is here, on the seat of the House. And so one of the old parliamentarians, who, thanks to the people, have been here since 1989, thanking him very much, and I regret, however, that most of us are outside and very fewer are in this major issue. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have told you since 1989 I have been in the parliamentary seats, and I must say that there have been several times all these years when I wondered whether we are all really acknowledging popular sovereignty. I have also often wondered to what extent we can take responsibility on our own, and from what point, we must assign it or even share it with the Greek people. And today these questions are relevant, they are similar, they are tortureous. Does the government really think that it can take responsibility for voting on the Ambassadors' Agreement, even after the government's Annell Couple? The answer I personally give is that obviously the time has come for the Greek people to express themselves and decide. In my opinion, we have obviously reached the end of a historical cycle, the result of which is not the present one. Ladies and gentlemen, the hours and days we live are not offered for verbal krone, but for serious consideration with a sense of national and social responsibility. So let me refer to this responsibility for my participation in the partnerships that existed in January 2015 at first and later in September 2015, where, with the vote of the Greek people, there was a co-determination based on SYRIZA - ANEL, from which I personally was outside the midnight of November 19, 2015, when I voted against the well-known Memorandum requirements and immediately after the vote, I and Stathis Panagoulis were deleted with the same reasoning, literally with the same words. Only the signature was changed. But I did just the same thing then, on July 17, 2012, when I resigned from the Deputy Minister of Labour of the Government of Samara - Venizelos. Exactly for the same reasons. But as I said before, everyone can find positive and negative, but the essence is that this conflict has come to an end. And as with loans, stable economies are not being structured, so stable governments cannot be structured with credit forces. The government, even if it gets fifty-one votes, will remain unstable and very short of the horizon ahead of it. The upcoming events, of course, will have a catalyst. The perforated Prespecies Agreement, the Constitutional Review, the sought separation of Church - State and the multiple polls of May make up the political landscape of the coming months. So why should the Prime Minister himself not turn to the people and ask him, and as soon as possible, for his judgment, his reward or the condemnation of his policy? And why not do that especially now that we all know that the current government crisis stems from a major national issue, such as the Skopje agreement. So, through the polls, there could be an indirect referendum on the Prespecies Agreement. I must state clearly from the Step of the House that I consider it to be disgraceful and harmful. I will not support the government in my vote, and I will not hand over Macedonia by putting my signature on the Prespecies Agreement, so that I can have my conscience quietly. I am absolutely certain that I am interpreting the will of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. And I say this in the knowledge of myself, because I went to the rallys of Athens, Thessaloniki, even to the gathering of protests that took place there in Prespes, the day and time when the signatures fell, a few meters away. And that is why I know that my vote is a referendum vote of ten million Greeks and our unscrupulous land of our fellow citizens. Our Macedonia, the heart of Greece, must understand, even at this very hour, that it is not a compatible transplant with which the neighbouring state of Skopje could live and go forward. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the government, as everything shows, has the required parliamentary majority to ratify this bad agreement. With this in mind, I feel that I have an obligation, but also a duty to mention that the Christian Democratic Party of Greece, which I represent, since July, has made available a letter which has been sent to the leadership of Anti-Population and has proposed the one and only option that can prevent the vote of the Prespecies Agreement. The opportunity for all of us to disagree is to decide and in agreement to resign all of us Members who are going to vote against and then our alternates. The remaining Members of Parliament will then be less than two hundred and according to Rule 51(1) of the Constitution, the House will not be able to operate. This article stipulates that the House may not have less than two Members. So the Communism does not want, there will be elections immediately, which will take the form of a referendum against the agreement. There is therefore a solution: resignation and then recourse to the people. Because, as we have said, and as you all know, he alone gives the posts and the chairs. Only he must control his fate and the fate of the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. The Minister for Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, has the floor for 15 minutes. I would ask you, Minister, not to make personal references, because they are asking for the debate after the word and the debate is perpetuated. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u348	I have never done that, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if I understand correctly, the elections should have taken place on March 29, 2016. It was the first time, after seventy-nine days Mr. Mitsotakis took over and asked for an election. It was the first time, but of course not the last time. From there on, instead of the Anti-Population Party thinking about the plan and strategy that it will have if it comes to power again, it has almost exclusively dealt with how to shoot us, because we would not finish the evaluations, because it would not end the programme, for the banks, and of course today for the Macedonian. Only we haven't fallen. Only this strategy of destruction has not been successful. The whole New Democracy strategy has not gone ahead. Such a strategy has been successful in seeing, to remind a little of "Black No" of the famous British comical series, since Olaf, King of Vikings, ordered eighty thousand war helmets, but unfortunately the horn from the middle of the helmet. So successful is your strategy. He failed because you didn't know how to react to the crisis. You didn't think of how we got to this crisis, what responsibility you had, but what responsibility the system of ideas had for you. You never bother to think about why we got to what we got to. For us, the sovereign to understand this crisis is to understand what the universal order is. Universal class means this class that its own interests represent the interests of the whole society. For you and your fellow believers, the universal order is businessmen, it's elite, it's bankers. And that is why, for thirty years before the crisis, you said that with the reduction of taxes, with liberalisation, conditions would be created to help society as a whole. On the contrary, we have said and said that the universal order is the world of work. That is why we believe that collective agreements are beneficial to society as a whole, but also to the economy. That is why we believe that the increase in the minimum wage is beneficial to society as a whole and to the economy. That is why we believe that the social state is beneficial to society as a whole and to the economy. That is why we believe that the public insurance system is beneficial to society and the economy as a whole. That is why we want to have the world of work at the centre of our policies. Let me start with the Right and for these thirty years that the universal order is supposed to be business, business, bankers, bankers. For thirty years you believed it and unfortunately believed it, too, a large part of the Central Left. Only this has not helped neither the global economy nor society. In these thirty years, growth was lower than it was in the 1950s and 1960s, the rate of productivity growth was less than in the 1950s and 1960s, despite significant technological developments. But there were results. There have been results in increasing inequality, there has been a result at the level of jobs, there has been an increase in regional disparities. I don't know if you ever think about that, if the word inequality affects you. You realize how much capitalism has changed over the past thirty years, I just doubt you've ever thought about it. Because your Chief says inequality is within our genes. So, since he's inside our genes, we don't even need to think about it. And so, you continue with this same policy, where tax reductions are almost the only policy that you are talking about. Mr. Juliarakis in an excellent speech in my view in the budget debate cost your programme for 2019 at 4.7 billion. He said that with his own cumulative analysis this cost reaches 9.7 billion by 2022. Mr. Juliarakis said there are three possibilities. The first is that the New Democracy is not honest and added that this is something that he does not believe. I think Mr. Juliarakis is a better man than I am, and he's probably more polite. The first version, I'm not commenting on it any more. The second version is that you will reduce social costs, wages and pensions and remind you that 20% of the budget is wages and 40% are pensions. The third is that you believe the aggressive tax reduction is self-financed. I mean, you're going to reduce taxes, but you're going to have more revenue. [[In this respect, the first Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, is the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Following Mr Juliarakis' speech, Mr Mitsotakis came up and gave no answer to these questions. All he said was that Mr. Juliarakis had to know better why he was Minister in January 2015. Firstly, it was not true and, secondly, it was irrelevant. But he did not answer the questions. He didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u349	He was on the negotiation team.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u350	Of course, Mr Mitsotakis said something that is in your programme, which I present in the Minutes and which says there are 2 billion, so you can fund your programme from increasing the state wages from 2015 to 2018. [[At this point, the Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think you have serious assistant economists and I went to look into it. And when I went to examine it from ELSTAT and from GLK, first, I learned that it is not 2 billion people's wage costs increase from 2015 to 2018, but it is 1,061 billion. It's wrong about 100%. It's not big, but it's 100% wrong. But that's not the most important thing, Mr. Treasury. That's not it. The most important thing is that 680 million of this 1.06 billion is from intra-government transfers that we now give to the ECA, which means nothing. It is not a new expenditure, it is simply a new system that we have acquired because it has greater transparency and accounting practice. We're forgetting about this 680. A second part is the single payroll that increased 225 million. Another sum of 80 million is since the three years - which I do not know if you want any increase with time - and 50 million - which I am sure you want - which is for incentives to the public. But it's not all bad news. You have 26 million of the 2 billion with which I think you can easily fund taxpayers. Twenty-six million out of two billion. That's what I think is a little more than 100% mistake. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But we are going to the international experience. Not to take you to 1950, 1960 and 1970. International experience says that by reducing taxes on entrepreneurs we all win because they increase revenues, because they become more dynamic, etc. Jillian Tet is a columnist of the ‘FINANCIAL TIMES’. He's not an economist, he's an anthropologist. And because he's anthropologist, he says important and interesting things. I recommend that you read it. I often disagree with her, but she says a lot of important things. It took the first nine months of 2017 and compared them to the first nine months of 2018 to consider Trump's claim that by reducing the tax on businesses we will receive more revenue. That's your point. That is Mr Trump's argument. Before tax reductions in the rich of Trump, in 2017 it was 265 billion the taxes received from businesses and in 2018 it was 223 billion, i.e. a 16% reduction, although it was a time of high growth, so more revenues would be expected and profits increased by 13%. So, it's still not all bad news. This is the only strategy you are counting on. Until we hear further, that profits increase, revenue decreases. In America we now reach a public deficit which will reach 1 trillion. Debt is increasing. We know what happens next. They will tell us now that we have a debt and a deficit that we will finance the welfare state. We know that it is much more important to grant grants to businesses than benefits to the poor world and to those who need it. Martin Luther King told you once, that everything we give the poor is a provision, something disgraceful, and what we give the rich we call it a subsidy for the economy. However, I believe that you have learned no lessons, namely that it is precisely those economic policies you have had in the past that you have continued and believe you are going well. Only I see a lot of confusion, a lot of anxiety and a lot of stress from you and from your supporters, who of course expect more subsidies and less benefits. However, I would like to tell you that we will fight with what we have no such remedial, no return, then that we have only reduced taxes for our own and that there is no redress for the customer state. Why are we asking for a vote of confidence, ladies and gentlemen? Because this government is seeking to find the way, to find the answer to the demands, the expectations, the visions of the world of work, the universal order. With difficulties, with mistakes, with the need for assistance from other forces, because we have never said that we have the monopoly of truth. Our tradition comes from the morality of Aristotle's virtues. He passes through Hagel who claimed that a fair political class is only when my own self-realization passes through the self-realization of others. What Marx and Engels were saying later that everyone's free development is a prerequisite for the free development of all. We understand that the opposite of solidarity - Christian tradition would call it love - is not hatred but fear. There's hate. The Prime Minister gave Mr Mitsotakis the opportunity to report all these posters we have seen and did not do so. Should the motto "denounce violence wherever it comes" be changed to "denounce violence when it targets our own"? Is that your way of dealing with hatred?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u351	There's no hatred.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u352	Because Mr. Mitsotakis had the opportunity and he didn't take it. But it's not the hate I want to talk about. It's not hate. The return of solidarity is fear. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] It's the fear of the stranger. And the stranger may be a Syrian but it may also be someone from FYROM whose history and culture we are not trying to understand, find a compromise, a fear, we are closed in our crock and we are not looking any further. The Prime Minister said that patriotism is first - first to love your country, not to hate others. I'm taking a step further. patriotism is only genuine when he understands the other, when he has an empathy, when he enters his shoes and tries to find common solutions for his country and the other country and for co-development. That's the fear we're fighting, but it's also the fear, not only of the stranger, of the other, but also of the neighbor, of the other side. Because behind this fear, by the neighbor, is the fear of unemployment, the fear of low-wage work, no rights, no prospects. It is the fear of the middle classes that they and their children will find themselves in a worse position than they are now. That fear is that a vote of confidence in us enables us to fight him. Because fear does not allow solidarity. Fear does not allow an economic policy that is fair. Fear creates a feeling that we're all against everyone. That is why we must have the vote of confidence. That is why we say that solidarity is not a feeling that we have to feel better, it is a live practice that the leftists live every day, which is fighting it every day. It is not just interpersonal relationship, it is what supports our own policy and demands freedom and autonomy. That is why we passed the bills for LGBTQI, the bills on citizenship, because there cannot be solidarity unless there are freedom and autonomy for minorities as well. But at the same time it requires equality, the word to which you are never referring, this word in which you have a disobedience, because you understand that this word is crushing all your visions, your visions of a society, for which English expression is 'dog atts dog', all against everyone, without prospect, without solidarity. Our government has a different economic policy. It has a policy which, even in its development policy, the world of work and rights is at the heart of this development policy. But it is an economic policy, based on deep left ideas and values, that you cannot go anywhere without society. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] My last sentence, Mr President. And what will be judged in the national elections, when they come in October, in the European elections and in the local elections is whether we have the ability to build and continue to promote institutions based on these values and confronting Orban, Salvini and Brexit, which, with a great and light heart, are not thinking about, is where you are driving the country with your actions and policies last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Minister of Finance, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty-six students and schoolchildren and five educational attendants from the 2nd Grammar Preveza. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u354	Did you do it on purpose?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u355	It wasn't set!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u356	It was consensual, as you understood. That's for sure! [[Laughers in the Chamber]] We shall now proceed to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Teddy. Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u357	Ladies and gentlemen, we did not know that the Minister of Finance was from Preveza. I imagine that Kariotakis would not know about it, because if he knew it, he would have met him or his ancestors, who would be the same interesting people and would have avoided what happened, the obstinate one that we lost and a great poet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u358	You just lost five hundred votes in the Preveza with what you said!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u359	Is it always pleasant to hear the Minister of Finance, who, in contrast to Mr Stathakis, who sits right next to him, keeps after four years of government service, a missionary zeal, an absolute idea that here in this Chamber and SYRIZA represent the law, the pure, the pure interest of the poor, the wrongdoer, and that against him is who? The evil dragon, the bad people, the tools of the rich, who fight these good people, who support here with the increased capacity of the Minister of Finance. You know, he tells us a number of examples. The last thing he chose today is a delusion of Rowan Atkinson. - unconscious that he actually takes part in a paradox. He's a hero of a parody. Because a delusion is this government. He comes and tells us how unacceptable it is for the New Democracy to want to reduce taxes when he proposes a reduction in taxes. He comes and tells us that he himself is prepared to fight and fight the conflict, when, on his day, provisions have been passed by which the offshore companies which had not submitted the necessary documents to avoid the tax of 15% have been relieved when, on the days of this government, all the conflict, which is under arrest in public works, has been relieved. Or am I not well remembered and the legislations weren't of her government? Ladies and gentlemen, what I have to say to you, as I like the Minister of Finance, and they like me to listen to them - I am taught, I must tell you - the examples from English history, what I think will happen, Minister, is this: Do you remember, perhaps, the subsequent Edward II, Prince of Wales, when with a huge army, with lots of flubours, with great promises and with great words, he went up to subjugate Scotland? Remember when there was a battle in a place called Lundon Hill and there found someone named Robert de Bruce, the King of Scotland, and turned him beaten and stolen back? That's what's waiting for you in the election, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u360	Edward I was.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u361	Now we are going to talk about today's debate. Ladies and gentlemen, to understand why the government majority has not explained it to us, why should the debate on the vote of confidence be concluded only in one and a half days? Why should many Members here be deprived of the right to speak in the top parliamentary procedure? What is it that requires that this be done? Why does the Prime Minister of the country keep four empty posts of State Secretary before taking a vote of confidence? What does this void imply for the good faith man who is following this government? I would remind you of what I said this morning that under Rule 141 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure the government is proposing, not the Prime Minister, which means that the government must have been formed, in order to submit the proposal on the confidence of the House. When the Prime Minister keeps his papers closed, does this not indirectly constitute a promise of future ministries to give a vote? For the bad guys, I'm not talking about the good faith, but should we not cut them off, Mr. Chakalote, after fighting in the name of morality and light? And if tomorrow morning some of those who have given a vote to the government see them obtain a ministerial court, where will we end up, Mr Tsakalote, for the law, the right, the example, and the morality, which, in your opinion, only the Left represents on this planet? As a young Saul, I imagine, you've seen that light. I don't know at what age you saw it, you've embraced it since and you've been on your way. Ladies and gentlemen, to understand what issue this government should be praised for by voting on a vote of confidence? We were told again by the Minister of Finance - I am referring to him because, first of all, he is the top minister and the one who has just spoken before - about the great feelings towards the foreigner and the different. We must sign the feelings towards the stranger and the different. After all, Christianity, Orthodoxy, our overall culture, because in this context we have grown up, it imposes on us. But, to understand, this general and brilliant way of doing things through living conditions such as those guaranteed by its own government in Moria? Can he explain how these feelings are manifested by his own government towards the stranger who passed the sea and came to our place? How do they manifest themselves against OLAF, which investigates the division - and I say, for the best, I do not go to embezzlement or to others - of the Community funds for immigrants? Is this a sign of our brotherly love to the fellowman, Minister? But let's just leave that behind. We're going to the economy that's the strongest part of it, and it's made us a number of bills. He got a little confused, of course. It's awkward, Mr. Chakalotos didn't do it by mistake. When you get down to a million, ladies and gentlemen, you lose 50%. When one million goes up to two, it's 100%. These are just math, so we don't forget. It's all right, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u362	I told you to talk like a lawyer and not a mathematician. You don't have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u363	So, to understand, the damage of the 2015 billions happened or did not happen? I'm not saying a sum, so we don't have a lot of money on it. The "exhaust" of the banking system and the shares of the Greek State in the banking system happened or did it not occur on the days of your government, Minister? The constant memorial supervision of your day was institutionalized, yes or no, Minister? The endurance of the entire property of the Greek people and of the Greek society for a period in which no one in this Chamber will live - I am sorry to say it, it includes me, but unfortunately none of us will live here for another hundred years - on your day, Minister. The overtaxation, not of the rich, the prosperous, the possessors and the occupants, but of everything - everything! - On your day, Minister? Didn't you say you've done too much and have to start cutting them? To figure out what we're talking about. However, let us leave the economy and go a little on institutional issues. Ladies and gentlemen, does this government have or has it not shown a leading indifference to the institutions? Top indifference! Explains that. I'll explain right then why it's happening. Please tell me - I will not use names because they are meaningless, the deeds and the perception - when the head of a Supreme Court moves from the Supreme Court to the Prime Minister's Legal Office in dressing up the political film and then the party film is removed and with the help of the Government is turned into the head of an independent authority, this constitutes respect or disrespect to the institutions. So we can get to know each other. The issue has been raised by the Chief of Staff Responsibility for the Ministering of the Chief of HNDGS, with whom I have co-existed. I was the Minister, I had and I have a very good relationship with the Chief of HNDGS. This is not about the Chief of HNDGS as this person. The Prime Minister told us that this was a respect, because the country is facing a threat. I'll take it. In this case, ladies and gentlemen, what would the Prime Minister of the country have called, by closed door, in secret, if necessary, the political leaders would explain to them the need and would we all agree on this? I think you all agree that it is an interruption to the fact that there is a vertical difference between the military and the civil authority of the Ministry. If the national interest insisted on stopping this tradition, is there anyone in this Chamber who would refuse his consent to the government? But the Prime Minister did not do it for this, like most of the press, for your small-party benefit. The Minister has told us again that we must listen, understand the deliberate society and understand the difference. There's someone here - there's someone missing, okay, I'm talking about the democratic arch - who objects to realizing the different? If the Prime Minister were to see things this way, when he was negotiating major national issues, should he not have requested - where we could and could - the help of counter-population, with a large part of which he knew and knows very well that he could, if he was serious about his approach, find a common place? And you are sure, ladies and gentlemen, that this agreement you bring with the flaws it has would not be a better deal if a party and secretly a Prime Minister and a Minister were not involved in the negotiation, because I imagine that neither the government nor the political class in Greece were associated with the national interest? Wouldn't we have a better deal that we might all be able to vote on? Why are all these things sacrificed in the name of your micro-party? Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to consume the time. There are other issues on which government work does not even stand any criticism. Public security is one of them, the security of the citizen, the democratic one - his absolutely democratic - right to be released, not to threaten his life, his property, his right to his personality. All this government has ignored them in the name of the "rights" of a few who can demonstrate, break, act in any way they want, in any way they judge and even desecrate the memory of their victims. In the name of these "rights" this government has sacrificed the democratic rights of many. Why is that going on? Why does this institutional arbitrary exist? I'll answer you. I think it's clear. Seems when the Prime Minister speaks. The impression of the government, ladies and gentlemen, that it may have a part of SYRIZA - not a small one, I dare say - is that it speaks directly with the people, represents the people with a direct relationship which does not go through the suffering of the balances and institutions of modern urban democracy. When it was said, about a year ago, from a broad point of view, that "we have the government but we do not have the power and the state" meant precisely this: a concept of working the institutional framework of democracy in the name of the so-called interests of the people, the people as a whole, not as a certain quantity of people, each with their rights, their obligations and particularities, represented in this Chamber only by SYRIZA and have as the "Apostle Paul" of this tribute the Prime Minister and his Government. In such a government, which, as we said the other day with Mr Phile, invokes the surface and does not accept democratic dialogue, does not see the rest of the parties as interlocutors and associates, through rivals and dialogue, on a course of national interest and the truth, ladies and gentlemen, we must be across the street because the interests of the country are opposite. And I believe that the Greek society, to which the question will be put, to our ultimate judge, that is, to the Greek people, after a few days - you want it to be a hundred days, Mr Ministers, you want it to be a hundred ten, a hundred twenty days, so we count backwards - the Greek society will give the right answer and lead SYRIZA where it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u364	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Nikolao Teddy. Here comes Mrs. Fotini Vaki, SYRIZA Parliamentary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u365	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only four years since we took over the country's historic responsibility for governance. The left has survived, canceling the long-lived left parentheses scenario and putting the humanitarian crisis we have received in parentheses. Because what you inherited us was a country that was bankrupt and a people seated and desperate. With mistakes we have learned, with compromises and omissions, but by maintaining our principles and visions we have managed to achieve the goals of the country: Get out of the Memorandum regime, redeem public life and regain our credibility and authority internationally, closing wounds such as Macedonian. Ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officers, we 'guilders', the dangerous vessels, the populist fans of Maduro, the left with the defective ideas, the worst government than the establishment of the Greek state, to withdraw some of the samples of verbal canalism and toxicity that you are taking, you who have just insulted us for institutional disrespect, a vocal reason that reduces parliamentary customs and democracy, have survived. And we survived, because in the balance of history, the Left of Rights, the Left that gives voice, dignity and the status of the citizen to the non-existent, this Left in the stone years of the memoranda and the fascist threat is the only refuge for the losers of the crisis. Because we have heard the fairs of society and not the logic of the market. Ladies and gentlemen, the popular scissors are already closing, opening. But there is a lane that opens wide: the one between the right and the left. It's time to fight with realities and programs. It's time to face up to visions and values. So when the battle in Europe was being given to cancel the pension cut, and the Europeans were leaving a little bit of hope, you were preparing to give them out of courtship and flexibility. You did not hesitate, blinded by your anti-SYRIZA in your steadfast and hatred, to abandon us for exchanging pensions against the Macedonian, dividing the Greeks, so that you do not displease or divide the far right ending of your resignation, to traitors and patriots, opening Pandora's box in the neonazi structures that poison teen minds and arm carabines. We came out of the memorials where your orders condemned us and you do not miss a chance to risk, referring to the derailment of the country, at risk of a new memorandum and the need for a credit line. You did not envy only the glory of Tomsen in redundancies, but also Makry in Argentina that brought back the International Monetary Fund. You identify the security of the citizen with the imperial police and the return of the cells of absolute isolation in prisons, but for another security, work and social security. You nurse Pinochet, the removal of eight hours and the return to one by five on the grounds of recruitment - redundancies by the public. For the first time after ten years of aptitude, fifteen thousand appointments were announced in education. You uninhabited persecutors of every concept of public good conquer them as a pretext and an election communication firework, you who have made two and a half thousand teachers available. Ladies and gentlemen, if we had understood the desire for the chair during your affection, we would have fortified the constitutional legitimacy that allows for tolerance and minority governments. But the rules of democracy and the ethics of the Left do not exhaust political legitimacy in legality. The request for a vote of confidence is an act of political bravery and democratic responsibility. We ask for a vote of confidence to continue the policy that bears our mark, to register our values, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to get the country out of the memoranda. We call for a vote of confidence to legislate to increase the minimum wage and protect the first residence, to shield labour and democracy through constitutional reform. We call for a vote of confidence to restore injustices and give hope and perspective to the losers of the game, to the invisible and despaired. Finally, we call for a vote of confidence to put a happy end to a story without a name, a 30-year-old historical loose end. And to the late Macedonians who, within the country, clothe the lion of nationalistic deprivation, while abroad assure their concerned friends of the European People's Party that they will respect and respect the Ambassadors' Agreement, I would like to say that the great loser of this agreement is not our nation, nor our enemy is our neighbour. The great loser will be nationalism, racism and intolerance, giving rise to extreme right-wing monsters that threaten Europe. Love for the country is not hatred for the neighbor, it is not the ghosts of enemies and international conspiracies that despise and harass residents. patriotism is bridges of peace and solidarity, of co-development with our neighbours. The Prespecies Agreement, ladies and gentlemen, is an exercise of democracy that will cherish the ghosts of history and delineate two intersectional opposite worlds, the democratic and progressive that does not invoke Europe for the endless financial rules of the Eurozone, but for the construction of enlightenment and classical liberalism, the democratic world that dreams the Balkans of the King Ferraio, the collectiveisation, bridge and communication and another world, the world that slightly contradicts the poet Kawafi 'without contemplating, without contempt, without any consideration, large and high walls around him.' And these walls of provincial isolation, along with the walls of the only one in Europe, war of the Prespes, your friend Orban, who close outside the one foreigner, so as not to infect the white Christian nation who is employed, intrude you out of the world. So, let us stay with the headlines and chlamyda, the Lord's far right, and the officials of your prefectures who intimidate and threaten to send messages to MPs who support the government and who did not, even in a pretextful condemnation. It's your right. Lessons of patriotism on the left who resisted and fought fascism are not entitled to give. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the battle against nationalism and patriocapacy, the fight against a stained nationalist and historical reformism will give it to us. We owe her to the next generations. We owe her, however, to our historical memory. We owe it to the thousands of our fighters who have become the heavy litres of history in democracy, the fuel of history and the fertilization of freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mrs. Fotini Vaki. Mr Andreas Loverdos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the subject of today's debate, I feel an urgent moral duty to refer to the late Dimitris Sioufas, a man who, in his political path, but also as President of Parliament, has helped to upgrade parliamentary democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the request made by the Prime Minister for a vote of confidence. Why did he submit it? Because he didn't have the declared one anymore. The proclaimed one is claimable today. This is the legal, state-run nature of this operation. The declarant was lost and sought. That was the move of the Prime Minister. That is why, Mr President of Parliament, the Parliament is stopping its legislative work. Because it is not a mere renewal of confidence by a government that has not lost the majority, but precisely the opposite. And let's talk a little bit about it. If we had legislative work in plenary today, we should be voting on an article with an article. Because the declared statement is not substantiated. And it should be proved by voting for each provision. And I would like to say something, ladies and gentlemen, that comes from the morning speeches. He said that the Prime Minister was not obliged - the previous speaker repeated it - to ask for a vote of confidence. Sensitive, typical, yes, that's what it is. The letter of the constitutional text stipulates that. But a treaty of civilization has been formed since the late 19th century. The Treaty of Constitution has no legal effect. But it creates a political ethics. It is not a customary constitutional issue, but it is, I repeat, a political ethics policy which all Prime Ministers have been following. Remember, the example of Costas Mitsotakis, who resigned and led the country to elections because he was with 150 MPs? Neither a motion of censure against him nor a draft law was voted against. Nothing! The country, however, went to elections, because there has been respect for more than a century in this treaty of civilisation. It calls for new confidence, therefore, for someone who loses the declared or starts elections. That is why I told you this morning - because you do not understand them, although some of you have many years in politics and the younger ones have at least three or four years here and they have to be on their fingers - that your relationship with the democratic principle is weak or even nonexistent. That's what I said this morning. But I am staying with the Prime Minister because I remember him attacking him by denouncing shameful distances. We remember very well what he and his own members said when some were voting from the independent parliament of Stavros Dimas for President of the Republic. It demonstrates to us - even now that it is politically over - by turning his political word into nothing to keep his party in power. In this case, however, we have conditions which are more aggravating than other cases, because we have here - the term is straightforward, clear and I adopt it - which has been applied unequivocally, openly and before the pan-Hellenic, at the expense of his political partner, who has plundered it with a great deal of confessive efficiency and at the same time characterised him as an irreplaceable and important partner, but which contribute to his beneficial government work. Ladies and gentlemen, let's imagine the Prime Minister wouldn't appreciate him, what he would do to him, after he appreciated him and recognizing his contribution, he did what he did to him in front of our eyes. In any case, one is a fact. The Prime Minister is trying to create a virtual parliamentary majority and extend through it the viability of a collapsed government. In order to achieve this, it has made an unprecedented political transaction, for which no doubt there is no question. In other words, exchanges have been made between votes and ministerial and state-of-the-art. And, at the same time, he dared to say that the courage was not lacking to make critical decisions, to make critical choices, and he did not covet. But if a politician at this juncture doesn't beat up - if he dare - he is making elections. He does what all his predecessors did, who did not choose as a method to gather party remains to form a parliamentary majority, which would keep them in their ministerial chairs and in the prime minister's office. We are asking for the elections, because we are a party of counter-population. We need to understand something to come to an understanding. In both elections in 2015, there was the political reason for the Democratic Reconciliation. In September it was opposition on the basis of what we had lived in both January warning and warfare of what was coming. We were clean. We got small percentages. We improved it in September. But no citizen expected us to support the government. We have received a clear opposition order, which we respect and respect today. That is why we are voting against you directly, clearly, without periphery and mediation. We are a party of counter-population and therefore we are voting against the government. We do not accept supporting it. Clear things, clear terms, but not all of them and everyone in this Chamber. Because I talked about a transaction, which has been proven. I'm not talking about something that we'll see. It's already worked out. However, ladies and gentlemen, there are other things. There's the economy. The mist in the European environment does not allow for prolonged electoral periods, such as the one we live from November to today and that we will live for as long as the government still keeps Greece open. We need the markets. We have spoken on several occasions, and on the occasion of the budget, in detail, that the country must come out of the market. We have a situation in the Greek economy, which arises not only from its figures, but also from what the markets see about what is happening in Greece today. What is written, read and because some are reading Greek reality, they react. The European and international economic environment is not pleasant for Greece. The public bond market does not see us positive. So everything that is happening today is not allowed in the country. Anyone who is a patriot must have seen it, recognized it and said that this mess must not continue. Unfortunately, however, the government will continue with it. They need ballots now, because the people cannot lift their backs and new burdens that will arise from this mess in fact - and I want to be absolutely responsible here, I do not know how many and how many people will understand - of an economic life that is completely criminalised, unprecedented in relation to the rest of Europe. I repeat that economic life is criminalised, and the lawyers, of us, I think, understand me. We need shocking growth rates and we will go low and uncertain. We need a positive aggressive policy in education and we have heard the Minister for the Environment a few hours ago in this House say: 'They have no problem with universities, they are fine with universities, some even do. It's in the first two hundred in the world's rankings! And I told him by taking the floor: “Yes, obviously. But the fact that some university is in the first 200 universities on the planet does not mean that there are no problems of lawlessness.” And I photographed him of the University of Economics, the ASA. But can he not see that either, a Minister, who is a university professor? But education has a problem. High school's broken up. We will talk about this if there is a legislative task on Thursday. You broke the high school from top to bottom. Kids only do four lessons. There's no high school. There's no 1 and 2 high school. Third grade had too many problems anyway. I do not want to make much reference to health than just one today. I read a communication on what is going on at the Attica Hospital. His ranch is full of it and the haematological doesn't work. That's the briefing I got now a few minutes ago. The economy, education, health, development - there are too many problems - impose elections because it is seen by many by the overwhelming majority of Greek citizens that the present composition of the Parliament is in disharmony in relation to the will of the electorate of the people. It is clear that in a phase of disharmony a vote of confidence is being sought from party remains and through transactions. I think that this is a very problematic institutional, political, economic and social situation in the Greek Parliament and in general within the framework of the Greek political system. However, because trade needs two, this is where we have a tango. There's another dancer. It is not only the majority that dances, but also the great Macedonians who are fighting for Macedonia after it is finished, the subsequent Macedonian festivities. "Macedonia is one and Greek," they told us from here. I am a party member who does not love nationalism, who does not love populism, who does not go down to protests. However, the one who allowed Mr Kotzia to sign, I cannot see him comfortable coming here and saying to me: "Macedonia is one and Greek." I would ask that we also have a little seriousness in this Chamber. It confirms this party, what older and more experienced once said: the more nationalistic you hear someone speak, the more you expect surprises about what it will do about the country and its issues. There is still something very serious. I heard the Finance Minister a moment ago - I don't remember who the Member was addressing - talking about the hatred some grow. Those who cultivate their hatred are denounced, whoever they are, wherever they are. In that sense, we are confronted with this complaint. But who says that? Don't you remember that there were the modern tricycle Cots among you? Don't you remember the bats on the so-called left that were turning against our heads? Don't you remember the collapsing? Who have cultivated hatred in particular? Who were the champions? Who became champions of hatred when they tried politicians and parties and governments to keep the country upright? With what right can one of you today speak against those who cultivate hatred? We have that right. You're the ones who've lost it. We have it, because today to the person who will say words against you, like a traitor, like anything else in this regard, we are going across. We're not pleading. We are not happy with this kind of difficulty. But you are the ones who cultivated our hatred and propaganda who translated it into popular indignation into a popular protest. That's what you did and we'll never forget it. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] So, ladies and gentlemen, in order to be fully informed, those who today choose to support this government are doing as if they do not know what has been done in Greece for eight years, are doing as if they do not see the present institutional aberrations, they are forgetting that some have violated the rule of law in our eyes. They pretend they don't understand what this is all about. But for the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement they give theirs, their political presence and the future to support a national case. That's a lie. That's hypocrisy. The truth is clear. Anyone who today says "yes" here attempts to give a kiss of life to a government corps and to do that he is not disturbed by the hideous yield of decomposition and does not understand, to my mind, that it supports a government with patches, with remains, a government that is the photo of opportunism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr. Andreas Loverdos. We shall proceed to the list with Mr George Georgada, Member of the New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of untrustworthyness, deceitfulness, cheating, as recorded and guaranteed internationally, comes to ask for a vote of confidence. Who comes from asking for a vote of confidence? Of the SYRIZA MPs and six more MPs - Ministers. The three of them did not give us the honour to be here today - I do not know if they will be here tomorrow - and of course most of them did not bother to justify and explain to the Greek people, but also to their voters, the reasons why they will support this government and, of course, they did not bother to explain why we are all talking about a political transaction, which leads to specific ministerial subjects. We certainly did not expect anything better, an attempt by this government which, over the four years, has legislated in a certain way. If you look at the provisions and the amendments, most of them start with a phrase: 'Under any general and specific provision'. That is how this government legislated, which said it would be every word in the Constitution. So this derogating legislation today leads to a government of unreliability, a government of political transaction, which is done in the eyes of all the Greek people on a justification, as the Prime Minister said today: "We have always put the national interest first and did not measure the political cost." In this debate, the word 'national' said today, although generally avoiding it, to justify his attitude to the issue of the Ambassadors and addressing the New Democracy. If New Democracy and other anti-population forces in August 2015 did not have their responsible and moral attitude, then today there would be no SYRIZA to say that “in a few months I have four years of governance.” So New Democracy showed national responsibility, national debt showed it without being asked in August 2015, when instead the Prime Minister said the favourite: "Or us or them." Now how much "we or they" serve the national interest, I leave it in everyone's judgment. And the time has come to prepare the ground for the great policy, to say it, the Tsipras Act, which is the Prespecies Agreement, an agreement which does not only serve any ideals, whatever obsessions come from the past, but is this agreement a facilitation to the foreign player, which facilitates those who have been pushing the country's governments for a solution, which has finally given the space that the Prime Minister and the current government need for the reforms that we have been seeing in recent years. No one is pushing for investment. No one is pushing for reforms. No one makes any comment on the public, which is swelling. No one is intervening and making an observation from the institutions, for whatever institutional aberrations we have. Why? Because there's a lot of service going on. What has been denied all these years, all the Prime Ministers of the country are coming to solve it. How does he solve it? He solves this by trespassing, violating, violating data that make this agreement afflicting our country. Firstly, it is a solution which is against the will of the Greek people, as has been expressed in every way. With what weight, ladies and gentlemen, parties who, after a few months, may not be in Parliament with the vote of the Greek people, Members who, after a few weeks, may not have the parliamentary status will come to commit to the next generations? They asked their voters? Did they ask the Greek people about this? Was it one of the problems, one of the questions of the political choice of the Greek people in the previous elections, the issue of the Ambassadors? They don't see the reactions? Do they not see the world, which cannot accept a solution that is against its mind, interest, and history? Who gives them the political legitimacy to do that? How many people who trade ministerial thorns will come tomorrow to support such a choice, a choice that is not just against the minds of the Greek people, but is it also, of course, against its interests? 'We do not resolve any question, we open it all', some say. "But so far some were called Macedonians. Now they will no longer be called Macedonians, they will be called citizens of Northern Macedonia." They say, "It's no better than the previous one?" No, it's not better, and you know why it's not better? Because this second solution has our signature, it has our consent, it has our approval. So far even those who called them "Macedonians" have been showing to Greece as the solution to the problem. So Greece, which was the solution, which had the key, handed it over, delivers it. When this agreement is ratified some time later - if it is ratified, which, at the end of the day, I hope, at the very last moment, some people will feel the burden of responsibility and not ratify it - will have the opportunity to create a home to protect the 'Macedonian language', a club, a training centre and the official 'Macedonian' language as we will have signed it, as we will have accepted, will want to spread it to the country. Come and tell me how this thing is going to be canceled. Do you know what the burden of responsibility is in this story? Many times Parliament may have voted hard, but there has always been the possibility of canceling, revoking them either from the House itself or from a next one. There will be no possibility of cancellation and revocation here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. All the next generations, all the next few decades, we will be living with the consequences of this altutism on our northern borders, which can be used very seriously at the expense of our country, as we must not denounce that in this small country that some are saying that it is not a danger, there are forces that affect things and situations, forces that do not want the good of our country, and we have not guaranteed anything with this agreement, to protect the country from all of it in the future. Democrats are not afraid of appealing to the people. That is the principle of democracy. The people must decide on such a serious issue, which goes beyond a simple government mandate, which concerns our children, which is about the next generations. I hope that in the race of each of us with their consciences and history to understand this weight, and I hope that in the end this agreement, which is so disastrous for all of Greece, will not pass. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios, Member of the New Democracy. Mrs. Georgia Genia, SYRIZA MP, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA has undertaken the rule of the country at its most difficult times in the last forty years, at a time when Greece was literally on the edge of the cliff, on the brink of bankruptcy, on the last position among the European states, on the margin of developments and significant fermentation, Uraguo, a poor relative. But today, four years after the left government took over, SYRIZA, in cooperation with the ANELs, our country has not only managed to escape the danger but is at a significant positive point. It has thrown off all the memoranda, now independent and free decision on the fiscal and social policy it will implement, calculated power in Europe, a decisive factor in the Balkans and in the wider region. It has regained the respect and appreciation of its partners and international interlocutors, has regained its credibility. It can be hopeful and optimistic that the future is able to offer a better life for her children. To do this, it is now more than ever necessary to support the current government and the Prime Minister, in order to ensure continuity of the important reforms that have already begun, but reforms this time with a positive sign for the citizens, which contribute to the consolidation of social justice, the defence of individual freedoms, the safeguarding of social rights, the common good and the interests of the many. With the ANELs following an honest and successful cooperation, thanks to which we managed to get the country out of the memorials, our paths separate. The Prespecies Agreement is a clear and beneficial solution for our national interests and the role of Greece in the region. This situation and a name that the previous governments have accepted for years, especially of the New Democracy, as de facto and certainly damaging to our national interests, we have managed to amend it and change the situation in our favour by adding a geographical designation, which has been a long-term pursuit and, above all, by ensuring a commitment to resignation and eradication of the coastal eyelids of the neighbouring country. This agreement will be supported by an absolute majority - and above all - of our National Representation. Everyone knows that. The government still has the declared one. But the Prime Minister, once again fully responsible for clear solutions, preferred to resort to confirming confidence in the government this time exclusively by progressive and responsible forces. He preferred, in a very responsible attitude, to relieve Mr Mitsotakis of his continuing irresponsibleness and allegedly doubt that the government itself has the majority, without, of course, ever resorting to the possibility afforded by the Constitution for a motion of censure, since he is well aware that such a proposal would be completely unsuccessful and, of course, taking over the burden of ratification by Mr Mitsotakis himself of the Prespecies Agreement, which is the one who wishes the most of all of us, because otherwise it will be irreversibly exposed. So now that there is a purely progressive democratic government, which is part of and fully expresses the forces of the Left and of the wider central left, of ecology, of social democracy, of no one who wants to define himself as a left-wing, progressive or democrat, it can only support this government and give a vote of confidence to clearly lay the foundations for a more social state, a rule of law, in order to create a blurred front to the powers of the extreme right, conservativeism, nationalism and intolerance, against the neoliberal model of governance and lasting austerity that Mr Mitsotakis wants to apply and impose, by crushing the middle class and poor strata of the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no longer any excuse to support the Prime Minister and the Government in the completion of the work for the benefit of our winter fellow citizens. You have no excuse to support progress towards regression, progress towards maintenance, social justice against safeguarding the wealth of the few, democracy and equality against intolerance and neoliberalism. If you do not, you clearly support the pursuits of Mr Mitsotakis and the other extreme right-wing elements on the right-wing side. All my fellow Members stand before the historic moment and our responsibilities. It's time for you to take care of them now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u372	Thank you to Mrs. Georgia Genias, MP of SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-eight students and students as well as three teachers from the 2nd Municipal School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall now proceed to the list with Mrs Christophilopoulou, Member of the Democratic Alliance. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u373	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u374	You know, ladies and gentlemen, I am using the title that the speaker would like. I guess that's why I didn't say congresswoman, and I said congressman, to be in line with the spirit of the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u375	I think you can say a congressman. There is also the version 'the congressman'. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u376	That's right, that's right. Here, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u377	Ladies and gentlemen, for many days now we have been watching a picture of extortion, unfortunately, and the government's partners, who have found them among themselves, have led us to today's miserable and meaningless performance, because there is no - to respond to the colleague who has just come down - a purely progressive government. Where is she, so we can find her? Kammenos is gone, but the "burned" remain and then take the vote of the harmful national Ambassadors' agreement, which is why they remain. Mr Kammenos himself, trying to save what he can now - if he can, because these efforts are in vain - will retain mercy on the types of his parliamentary group and then take on the role of the great Macedonian people. Who believes him? At the same time, Mr Kammenos will, of course, continue to support the Government of Mr Tsipras. It is the definition of co-operation, ladies and gentlemen. This is a bad show, as I already said. For his part, Mr Tsipras does not hesitate to dismantle - through takeovers - one and two and three parties, and then attempt to appear as supposedly self-clear of the ANELs, which has it within him, as the expressor of the centre-left at the place, offering ministerial chairs to well-known gyolists, in relays of the centre-left, who subjugate everything to personal promotion and to the satisfaction of their ambitions, which they will feel for just a few months or so. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to describe these behaviours, we must remember George Papandreou, who once said that Circe with the delear of power is humiliating people. They will also have the fate of the stunned lemon canopy, the one that Mr. Tsipras holds for all the occasional willing ones he uses. Whatever he does, however, the mark of cooperation with the far right-wing ANLLs is not washed away. The Conservative and Statutory policies they have implemented will not be forgotten. They don't forget and won't be forgotten. Mr. Tsipras was neither a nor a Central Left. In his policy he breaks through the very concept of the Left. It's a barber for the Left. It is the best donor to the right-wing recovery attempted by Mr. Mitsotakis. He is nothing but a ruthless and cynical rider of power without principles and values, ready to do everything to maintain in that power for a few more months. The so-called new government will be a government of decline, weakness and deadlock. So the only way out for the country is only the elections. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, are you asking for confidence in the handling of our national issues, when the Presidencies' Agreement not only solves the problems but is magnifying them and creating new risks of alteration for the future? I am unhappy, it's not the way you told us and it's what we're told. No government has so far accepted "Macedonian" ethnic and "Macedonian" language. Are you asking us to trust Greece's exit from the crisis, when you have entangled the country with your agreement in the surpluses, in the exterior tax undermining growth, when you yourself poored the middle class, when you led households and businesses to despair? You cannot make investments, get out reliable on the markets. You have assigned colonial terms, which had never accepted any government before, the national property in a superstate, which for the first time the Left made it controlled by foreigners. In addition, democracy is at risk with your constant methods of control of justice, methods that reach the limits of institutional diversion. You are trying, with highly well-established logic, to control the institutions and the independent authorities and if you do not manage or whenever you do not manage, to undermine them and to undermine them ruthlessly, because you do so, of course, with the cooperation of the caramanlic right. It's inside your government, after all, and in position - key. You are creating conditions of para-states, because you are openly opposed to any act of transparency, accountability and the very essence of the rule of law. These are the so-called left-wing and so-called progressives of Mr Papagelopoulos and Mrs Papakostas. So you are asking us to trust the insecurity that citizens feel about their lives and their property, when you are putting up with the whacks and the development of a new generation of terrorist attacks in the country. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, one minute's tolerance. We won't forget your cynicism and indifference to the destruction in Matty, when so many people died, and you were playing the theater in front of the TVs. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - ANEL new cutting and all kinds of willingness, there is no reason, national, economic, social, institutional, that makes it necessary for you to remain in power. On the contrary, only deadlocks can lead to new suffering. Soon, however, you will also be in the past in his attempt to prevent defeat, he has not hesitated to become the same raccoon collector of bankrupt leaders, rulers and travellers of the space who did not see their personal ambitions satisfied. For what Mr Tsipras is doing with them and to whom he is addressing, it is enough to see SYRIZA's prolonged ministers on the front line the other day, who together with the ANELs standing upright applauded. That was Mr. Tsipras' famous centre-left opening. Mr Tsipras thinks that with these horrific methods and propaganda it will succeed in breaking down the democratic party. It does not concern him that his government's policy is an exact copy of the Conservative New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that the country needs national understanding, planning, development, investment, social state and the rule of law. To achieve this, we cannot go to the divisive practices used by SYRIZA in which New Democracy likes and plays the game. The Change Movement offers precisely the role of the progressive party, which will be the catalyst of positive developments for the future of this place. We are voting against the government. He has no confidence, and the only way out for the country is for the elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u378	Thank you to Mrs Eve Christophilopoulou. We move on with Mrs Anastasia Christodoulopoulos, SYRIZA MP. Mrs Christodoulou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u379	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the debate, as has evolved so far, can be characterised by the panic of the New Democracy and the other Opposition towards the SYRIZA political project. The Prime Minister has the initiative of moves, and when a party and a government have the initiative of moves, I think that any debate that has to do with the fact that this party will be defeated and crushed, is, at least, unrealistic. So we should normally be talking about why opposition is trying to turn the debate into a vote of confidence into a debate on a motion of censure against the government. That's unprecedented. They dare not make a motion of censure, because in the last one they did in June 2018 they received a hundred and twenty-nine votes, while those who did not vote for the motion of censure were fifty-three. Don't forget that. In fact, Mr Mitsotakis said the inaccuracy that if Annell wanted to cast the government, they could have voted for the motion of censure, that is, seven or eight votes. Nothing happened again to throw the government down. You have lived for two and a half years in this Utopia that the government will fall, and you are constantly asking for elections. In a one-toned, truly political way you have led to a snooping of the political life of the place, because they have all understood that these are not serious things. Now, on the Prime Minister's initiative to discuss voting for the government that will win it, you have panicked. Why are you panicked? Because with this initiative the Prime Minister changed the political landscape, changed the political connections and you are in panic. You have reached the point, saying that you are supposed to know what the government will be like tomorrow, which will be the 'Government-Carl'. At the same time, you are talking about 'wrinklers' to the parties. Is that a confession that you'll lose? Because when you are proclaiming and defending it, you will win SYRIZA by ten different points, what do you care about the 'turners' who go with the losers? You'll be winners. So why so panic? You don't have any confidence? Did your concern and insecurity peak, why are months passing turning the political climate? Here is the issue, and that seemed to be a relief in the debate that has taken place so far. For the first time I have heard them considered heroes and unselfish those who go with them, in your opinion, winners and are regarded as "wrinklers" and "hearings" those who go with the losers. Such a triumph of irrationalism I've never seen before. You cannot have a cohesion in your mind. So you talk about the vote of confidence and how do you try to deal with it? With a new dedication. There was the well-known exile 'not leaving the chairs'. I'm sick of people listening to you. Now a new dedication has been found, unproven, that, of course, the SYRIZA-ANEL divorce is directed. Was there a command to win what exactly? We didn't understand. But you're insisting on that. Why do you insist? For you want and have earned goodwill all these years with SYRIZA's "holy and inappropriate alliance with ANEL". Now you won't have what to say. So you overthrow this and say, "They are not divorced, they are not divorced," they direct it to be in power again. So you are occupied by a panic, by a fear, and that is why there is really a question here about how the debate is taking place. You claim, without saying this openly, that we have a crisis of political and social legitimacy. Do you know what it means to say a crisis of political and social legitimacy, to use the corresponding terms? So let me remind you of the incident from the recent past. On February 13, 2012, the memorandum was passed, a series of MPs, both PASOK and New Democracy, voted against or abstained from voting. So then, the two major parties of bi-groupism have deleted, the PASOK twenty-two MPs, and the New Democracy twenty-one MPs have shown what we call the system crisis, crisis and the dissolution of bi-groupism. Then it was not only what was done in Parliament, because it always goes hand in hand with what is happening on the streets and on society. At the same time, society, protesters, fighters and social groups were in revolt, calling for the government to fall, precisely because it did not meet their social needs. Can you find a match to the current situation, and tell us if SYRIZA has a political and social legitimacy crisis? Unless in panic you think you're the people, and since you don't want SYRIZA, the people don't want him. You may also have such hallucinations! The question, however, now is that we are really in the phase of two upcoming votes that SYRIZA will win. There is not a political event in modern history, it is considered that the government is on a runway and not only to broaden its alliances, but also to force you to become anti-democratic. Because what are you talking about? That apostasy is being organized, that we're giving gold consideration. For you, what exactly is the House? For for us the House is a free space for exchanging views, exchanging ideas and at the same time trying to compose them. That is what we have done, ladies and gentlemen, throughout our entire term of office. So what did we do? You thought we had an alliance with a far-right. Has the extreme right wheeled our political plan ever entered? Never. So what did we do? All the flagship bills we brought them to the vote. It was citizenship. It was the gender ID. It was the protection of minorities, and more. At the height of the Ambassadors' agreement with which ANELs disagreed. And what happened? We sought alliances within the House. Everything was voted not by the ANELs who insisted on their view but by the other parties. Was it apostasy when everyone voted for citizenship? Why didn't you then say 'apostasy' and say it now? Because it is not exactly what you have in mind, and you think people do not understand the contradictions. So it's a given one. We're going to continue the same tradition. We will try, within the free space of the House, to upgrade Parliament, not to be an agency of the government, but to be a living place, and here we will obviously win the majority with transparency, both for the Prespecies Agreement and for the vote of confidence. These methods of extortion of MPs, of mocking them and all that you do to prevent them, of giving a vote of confidence to the government, I think you have already realised that they are not enough. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in interesting times. To deal with these new times, we need new materials. Old communism is not enough to live in these interesting times, and be part or protagonist of these developments. I therefore think you should ask yourself what you can do in the next period - which is also a pre-election period - and it will be good for Parliament's authority, to upgrade your political speech, finally put forward a political proposal. Because that is your crisis that you have no alternative. [[This is where the closed doorbell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I'm done, Mr. President. Finally, we should all go up a little higher in order to live this new era and to make this small country which - sometimes an exception, and sometimes an example - has written history, continues to write history and not move between misery, nationalism, slander and pitifulness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u380	Thank you to Mrs Tasia Christododoulou, SYRIZA MP. We're on our way to Ms. Kerameau's.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u381	I thought you called me a congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u382	No, I didn't. I know you wouldn't like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u383	Mr President, neither will Parliament! Congressman!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u384	Congressman, of course. Mrs. Kyrame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u385	Ladies and gentlemen, when the pursuit of power becomes an end in itself, then we are touching the limits of political and moral decline. When the pursuit of power becomes an end in itself, the politician does not fight for the common good, he does not fight for his beliefs, but serves his self-interested pursuits, he aims solely at his own self-reservation policy. SYRIZA and ANELs are in pursuit of power. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days we have watched governmental formation, given a mischief performance in many acts. After the revision of the articles of the constitution was passed in the neighbouring country, we are following the two protagonists of the modern tragedy of the Greeks, entering the stage, struggling the entire Greek society. You do not think that the citizens ignore the fact that the performance you gave Sunday was also a preconscious act between Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos, a preconsented act that was a successor to both partners and Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos, a preconscious act that was a little more time-conscious for both partners in the process of power. I'd like to refer to the two of them in the first place? - co-government and their parliamentary groups initially towards Mr Kammenos and the ANELs. Mr Kammenos, who has been in favour of the country's national interests in recent days, has had the opportunity to prevent the Ambassadors from agreeing, voting in favour of the motion of censure tabled by the New Democracy in June. I would remind you that it did not do so at the time, with the grievous argument that this agreement would not pass through the neighbouring country. Instead, he preferred to join Mr Tsipras, giving him the pen to sign the nationally harmful Prespecies Agreement. Since then, he has thrown crocodile tears over the agreement he chose to sign. It was pointed out behind all Mr Tsipras' choices, although he was well aware that while he lives in the government, they are created in Skopje at the expense of our country. So first allowed the referendum to take place in Skopje, then allowed the constitutional review to begin and finally to end. And now it comes after a celebration - take good care - not to throw the government down and block the course of voting for the Prespecies Agreement, but does not even make it obvious. What's the self-evident thing? To raise a question of party discipline for its Members in Mr Tsipras' proposal of confidence. On the contrary, it "loves" MPs of ANLLs to Mr. Tsipras, allowing him to vote for confidence and thus opens the way wide to the vote of the Ambassadors. Why is he doing all this? It is quite simply to maintain the privileges of the Head of Parliament, because very simply, ladies and gentlemen, if he deletes all his four MPs who want to support the government, then he will no longer be the Head of Parliament's Party. It is clear how interested Mr. Kammenos is in the Prespecies Agreement. No interest in him, despite the fact that at the 3rd Conference of his party in November 2016 a resolution on the name of the neighbouring country was adopted, with its conference not accepting in any form and with any derivatives the use of the term "Macedonia" in the name of the "North Formation" as attributes mentioned. But what about Mr. Tsipras, the Prime Minister's attitude to what are we calling it? Passive, cynical and disguised hypocritical. It could well resign and proceed on elections once the majority is lost. He could well resign, as he had the courage and courage to do by the late Constantine Mitsotakis when he was found with a hundred and fifty votes. But what is Mr. Tsipras doing today? He welcomes the opportunity, the marginal support of his government - take note - even of Members who have announced that they will vote against the Ambassadors Agreement a few days later. And all this because? But for a few more months in power. Everything about the chair. But you know, ladies and gentlemen, this government, even if it does not fall tomorrow, will fall very soon and will fall over it, because the hundreds of fifty Members may find themselves from what seems to be Parliament's confidence. But what you have long lost is the confidence of society. In conclusion, I would like to address the whole House as well as all Greek citizens. Don't have any doubts. Anyone who gives a vote of confidence to the government tomorrow also signes the Ambassadors' Agreement. Any Member who supports Mr Tsipras assumes responsibility for history. We will do everything we can to ensure that this nationally harmful agreement does not pass. We are disseminating to all tons that we will not ratify this agreement either now that SYRIZA is government or then when we hope that the New Democracy will be a government. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has finally come for the curtain of this bad and harmful performance to fall. Greece cannot continue to be a hostage of a group of empires. It cannot be ruled by a naughty meeting of authoritylessly. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not vote for this government, because you are the government that has broken apart the economy, which has drowned the citizens in taxes, the government which has introduced unthinkable primary surpluses and capital controls, the government which has suffocated almost all of Greek public property for a century, the government that has left citizens at the mercy of crime and violence, the government which allows all kinds of criminals to find refuge in the Greek public universities, the government that manipulates justice, the government that is gratuitating democratic institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not give a vote of confidence, or rather we will not give a vote on your personal political survival, because that is what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u386	Thank you to Mrs Kerameos, Member of the New Democracy. Mr Ioannis Tsironis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot tolerate making a small reference to what I intend to say, to remind you that if Constantine Karamanlis the elder listened to public opinion in the 1970s, we would never have reconciled with the preeternal enemy who only thirty years before that time had occupied Macedonia and I mean the Bulgarians, because we had never fought against the citizens of "North Macedonia". Our allies were in the guerrilla against the Nazis and of course the Balkan Wars. But you are devising enemies. I would remind you, on the other hand, that when a government was subjected to public opinion, a misinformed public opinion like you then, and went to fight in the Saigon, we destroyed what we had. Stop selling nationalism and patriocardia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u388	Kichevo, do you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u389	Calm down, please. You're upset, I get it. You're at a dead end, but I'm not gonna untie you, what do we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u390	A dead end? Twelve thousand left their souls there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u391	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u392	What's okay? Did you forget the Balkan Wars?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u393	Whatever.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u394	Quiet, please. Mr. Cryazides...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u395	He's permanently interrupting me. You're welcome, Mr. President. I'm ruined by the gentleman. Your treatment again, I've told you. I've never interrupted anyone. It was just four years ago - he was the '15s' generator - that the Ecologists - Greens decided to support a left-wing government, and of course too many comrades and comrades at that time had their doubts, but they were doubts for simple reason. The Samara government had launched early elections to run away, and the'standard' of the wild collapse to come into the hands of the next government. The central banker in December recommended that citizens take the money from the banks. The comrades and the Greens' comrades said very simply: 'But will we support a government that will be the government of collapse? Why should we be inside too?' I replied very simply then that even 1% of the chance that this government might have to save the country from the collapse, and we Economists - Greens - this 1% chance of making it a chance of 1.5% - have to try to save the country from the collapse, because if the country's collapse comes, the 'irgentinisation', the last thing that will be concerned with us will be the obstinateness of the Echo-Green. A few days later I went to Brussels to ask for the support of the European Greens, who were careful and directly asked: 'Do you think Mr. Tsipras has a secret agenda to get the country out of the euro?' Then I assured them that this is not the case. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr. Voridis, if you'd like, go outside and talk as much as you like. Please. Just six months later - and it is worth remembering this - Mr. Tsipras as Prime Minister preferred the country's security and propensity in the Eurozone despite the unity of his party. I wish you were doing the same today, that is to say, putting Greece above your party and you and others. So today, after four years we Echologians - Greens - are proud to be involved in saving the country, because as you know, a small party is very easy to be in Anti-Policy and in security, and on the contrary when it is in the government or within the parliamentary majority it is very difficult to pass what it wants. So very little has been done by the Ecologists, and we are really out of the government's logic, for example as regards the extraction of hydrocarbons. We're not the same, we're different. We're economists. But I'm just asking. If the two green MPs, Mr. Dimitras and I, had we not supported the government then, would we today have forest maps? Would we have a law on the social and solidarity economy? Would we have a national waste management plan compatible with the European Union and the European directives with recycling? Would we have a law on energy communities? Would we have opened the door to beekeepers, discussed with consent and not been with closed doors and never seen anyone? Most important: would we have saved thousands of refugees? How many would have drowned if our government hadn't ruled and ruled the likes of Orban? And I'll say. Would we have the Ambassadors' agreement, which I consider to be a national success, a national triumph? In a few days' time, I will tell you the lies with which you mislead the Greek people. This is where I'm not resisting. Only one thing I'll testify for. First of all, because we were sure the Samara government would collapse. This is for 2015. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will also testify to something dedicated to Mr Babiniotis, and to the fact that the UN has not recognised the 'Macedonian language'. Here is the official UN page and what it says about the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. And here I read the following: 'legislative languages: macedonian'. That's what the UN has identified and what you're lying about. This is the language of the neighbors today without the Prespecies Agreement. Be mirrored, then, when you said in ‘77 that the language was never read. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So what did we do with the deal? That this language is not the language of Alexander the Great, that those who come to Greece today with passports you supposedly had not recognized in '95, are not "Macedonians" as we mean it, but citizens of northern Macedonia and many others that I will tell you in a week. And of course, the story that NATO was the big diplomatic weapon, while if anyone reads the interim agreement, they could well enter NATO as FYROM. The agreement opens up the great trade road that had been closed with the war in Yugoslavia by Thessaloniki in Central Europe and Europe as a whole, and of course it has been relatively closed and by the hostility which has developed diplomaticly between the two countries. So in the next elections in October, we deliver a Greece better than the one we received, and we do not call it enemies and friends in Europe today. We have received a ruin of Greece. We're not delivering a Greek palace. That is why when I am asked friends and acquaintances if I am satisfied, I say 'no, I am not satisfied'. We'll deliver a Greek construction site. Because the construction site, I know it's unpleasant. It's hard to live in a grandmother. Greece is being rebuilt, it is a construction site. I'm sure it takes a lot of time to make the palace she deserves. But I say that I prefer to deliver Greece - a construction site than Greece - for a long time that we looked fatally and would fall over our heads. That is why I am voting for the vote of confidence and I am giving him as an economist with all my heart, despite the fact that I know that on many issues I disagree with the government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will close with a basic point for the two major banks. Let's not make fun of ourselves, people hide it in this Chamber. One is the big political difference the big break in Europe: You are or are not with globalised neoliberalism, the globalised financial capital that all states, all business, farmers, yellow vests in France, all people are hostages of this debt, and whenever someone moves to that debt, these people take the money and take it somewhere else and strangle big savings even like France. Let me remind you, then, of the hostage you are sheding today crocodile tears for the small and medium-sized ones and for the middle-class, that the middle-class is crushed by neoliberalism worldwide. So let me remind you that the surpluses that these lenders require, you signed them. I'm not saying you hostages were at 4.5%. That's what they're demanding. And if you don't, they take their money. That is what they did in Argentina, they do all over Europe and threaten it today. It's very simple here, then. Which bank are you on? We know where you are, you've made it honest, and that's where we are. With all due respect. These parties, however, of the minor opposition that they say on the centre-left, will decide on which bank they are? We economists have decided to take a bank, which is why we are in a pan-European position in the movement against neoliberalism. This is the line that we are going to go to the next elections and to the European elections, that is our identity and we will not leave Europe hostage to these wretched, parasitic capitals and produce nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u396	Thank you, Mr. Ioannis Tsironi, MP of SYRIZA. We proceed with Mr Christos Hadjisavvas, Member of the Golden Dawn. Here, Mr. Hadjisavva, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u397	Which friends and enemies do you ask, Mr. Cironi? You only have friends abroad. Merkel is your friend, the IMF is your friends, you have no enemies to ask anymore. He's satisfied them all. With regard to the vote of confidence, Mr Tsipras once said that the freshest vote of confidence is to appeal to elections and give it to the people. Election now, so that the Greek Parliament can catch up after the treason. We will, of course, see if she can be caught up with it, because the New Democracy does not clearly say that this agreement will not pass. He says he'll negotiate. And if we take into account the position of his complex name they have previously proposed, we understand what negotiation will take place. As far as the so-called break between the government partners is concerned, it no longer convinces anyone. Because when Kammen had to resign so the signatures in the Prespes didn't fall, he didn't do it, and now he's making a departure show, which doesn't bring any real results. Now, of course, the numbers are coming out. It has a hundred and fifty-one government to pass the vote of confidence, but also the Prespecies Agreement and the Kammenos have a parliamentary group. Of course New Democracy says that Kammen loaned MPs to SYRIZA so he could pass these two. But the unexplained unrelease of Papachristopoulos and Zurari testifies otherwise. Tsipras lent two MPs to ANELs for a while until they managed to rebuild a parliamentary group. They've already convinced a willing man. But it is understandable that the New Democracy is more anxious than the government to pass the agreement now, because after the mandate of the sovereigns it is fixed, it remains for a solution of this kind. Now for the Danel, who had doubts about support, and said Mr. Theocharis for transactions, I do not know what Mr. Theocharis says. However, what I know is that in March 2016, from this step, Mr. Dannelis, referring to a dispute with a minister, said that it was a lot of trouble, because he said the Macedonians, the Macedonians, the Minister, meaning the Skopje. So I don't understand why there was the slightest suspicion that Danielle wouldn't back up. But was there a real issue and a need for the Greek people, so that we could solve the Skopje issue at our expense? What plans are they serving? Is the attitude of SYRIZA and his MPs weird? I don't. Has SYRIZA and its MPs changed their attitude and position on the issue since it was opposition? Has he deviated even to the minimum from his nationalist beliefs? They always said the same thing, they always believed it. For an HISBILE, of course, the electorate who gave him the strength to do what he believed and never hid. It has an ideological effect on the assignment of our name and history of Macedonia, SYRIZA. In 1995, officials went to a protest in favour of Skopje, even the sentence 'Iliden Macedonia' was positive. Do you think they didn't know what Iliden and SNOV are? Is that how Zafe accidentally tried to fool them? With a long-standing approach, therefore, both with FYROM and with the composite name Greece has suffered a strategic national defeat. They say that whatever a country loses with guns doesn't win it is supposed to be on paper. But you also shot down that. And it seems possible that it is not possible for a country to earn it on paper, but some willing ones can comfortably give it away. For the preservation of the Greekity of Macedonia we were spilled into wars by Greek heroes, in the Macedonian Race initiated by Paul Melas, in the Balkan Wars, while in 49' the Greeks fought against featherists Bolshevik Greeks, Bulgarians and Albanians. Now we find out they were suddenly fighting for Macedonia at the time. Come to Kilkis, say this, which has seven and a half thousand dead, because they defended the city and didn't hand over the weapons and they waited to give them to the allies. You are now coming with a political revancism - against what you have suffered, of course, in Grammos and Vitsi and Greece has been saved by the communist threat - to impose the plans of your defeated, ideological and natural ancestors. You do not hear the blood of thousands of heroes or of course the overwhelming majority of the Greek people with the tolerance of decades, governments and the New Democracy and PASOK, and especially of some PASOK MPs there. And now you're spreading that something's going on and some of their holes start plunging. Why? For there is the existence of an aeratrative "Macedonism", with the recognition of a country called "Macedonian", with the language "Macedonian", with a nation of "Macedonian". You gave the first time a nation "Macedonian", and Zaev can say "we Greeks" and "these Macedonians". You have quickly separated Macedonian national citizens from Northern Macedonia. So, automatically, are there also Macedonian national citizens of Greece? But let's let's leave what I say, Chrysayite, and let's go see what his spokesman "Nova Zora" and "Uranian Toxos" said in October 2018, a few months ago, to Saint Panteleimon and Amyntos, said at a manifestation of the so-called "Macedonian Stegeis". So he says this provocative guy after weeping because it was not the event: "It was finally a club expressing Macedonian culture, as we want to experience it," he says. How, so, do I want them to experience him there? This unacceptable is still going on. Now listen to what he says: "We are residents - citizens of this country...", he does not even say Greece "but we are national Macedonians". He says they are Macedonian national citizens, Greek citizens, not Greeks. Does that remind you of anything that has to do with the deal? And he continues threatening to say that "in the coming years you will rub your eyes here in Greece from the dynamics - he says - of the "Uranian Arc", that is, the national Macedonians, as he claimed. Their aluminum designs, of course, cancel the people who reacted as they did in that case, and when needed for pseudo-Macedonian roofs and pseudo-Macedonian dictionaries. Of course no one believes that this Skopje format that would be dissolved - and I still do not know whether it will have many years of life - will eventually invade Greece. But some of these states that need care and protection, become tools sometimes in the hands of great powers, which will want the port of Thessaloniki, will want a partition and will want some land there in northern Greece to pass pipelines and pipes. Long will many and many of them, who will have similar claims. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like to have your tolerance for one more minute. SYRIZA, however, serves the false internationalism of the Left. The Prime Minister says patriotism isn't about hating each other's homeland. Okay. But who told you that internationalism is to hate your nation and your country? If you want to play it with fighters, internationalists, companions, solidaritys, Skopje for example, go fight with your comrades in Tetovo, who have been fighting Great Albania for ten years. You should go to Syria, fight Islamic fundamentalism. You can go to Yemen against the genocide that's happening there, and don't try to sell them guns. Leave your false solidarity from the heat of your homes and the NGO funds. You are supposedly defending other countries and degrading our country. With the amendments tabled by the Skopje to their constitution, they leave room for even a Turkish minority. In other words, we are giving Turkey and Erdogan the right to say 'I must intervene'. Greek minority in Skopje, isn't there? All the above, of course, were done with the tolerance of Kammenos, where parrots in 2012 and 2015 in the elections said, "vote him, he is a great patriot, do not vote Golden Dawn". You saw what happened to all those who voted and what happened to Greece with the great patriot, Kammenos. But we also need to add marriages, homosexual childbirths, nationalitys, mosques, flooding of lawmakers and hotspots, Quick, Koudoura, Papachristopoulos, Zurari and the others. We all owe them to the so-called patriot Kammenos and to those who voted for him. If Kammenos gave the pen for the Prespecies Agreement, however, the New Democracy gave the paper with the ready-to-date agreement, because it had already opened the topic for a complex name. We owe them all these things to the New Democracy that has brought them up with Kammenos. How old I've been, how embarrassed! Patriot Kammenos was voted, became co-pilot and Minister of National Defence, and was lucky to have the Skopje issue come when he was Minister and co-pilot. And what did the great patriot Kammenos do as Minister of National Defence? He testified all his hopes and his Greek nation to the Skopje, that the Skopje would not pass the Prespecies Agreement. That is why we are coming today as Golden Dawn, to say that the Greek people are now depositing all their hopes on the Golden Dawn, which is the only one that promises to abolish the shameful Ambassadors' agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u398	We're going with Mr. Nikolao Kotzia, MP of SYRIZA, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u399	With one tolerance in time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u400	With a tolerance, like we do to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u401	Because I've got my signature on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u402	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr President. I don't have time to answer everything. I'll respond to what I've held up. First of all, let's see what the Prespecies Agreement does, which looks like no one takes it into consideration. It upgrades the country's role in the world and gives it a strong geostrategic role. Some people seem to be not interested in upgrading our country. Secondly, it contributes to the security of the region. And thirdly, it promotes a positive agenda for the region. The main part of the Prespecies Agreement relates to cooperation between the societies, economies, universities and so on, and so on. They don't take all this into account because they're afraid. I heard this morning that it's going to reach the Aegean - it says - FYROM. And I'm saying, are they that pussy? Northern Macedonia has only 1.8% of Greece in defensive power. If with 1.8% power they get us a fairy tale, what can I tell you? It has only 6% of Greece's GDP and 1/8 of the real population. Why that fear? I'll answer you with Michael Papaconstantinou. He's got a great deal of interest. By criticising the New Democracy, he says: "The politicians we have have have have been forced to defend our country from law and pretend that their survival is due to them". What do we do, says Papaconstantinou, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the New Democracy? "We want the world to be afraid and us to be its saviors." This job is doing all the time, intimidating people that the terrible, the wrong and the unprecedented are coming. Secondly, beyond geostrategics and Mr., do you know what the north of Greece is at stake? FYROM – Northern Macedonia is at risk of turning into a piece of a crab bite, trying to surround us from the East and the North. Do you mind if Turkey not let this region affect any more? And what else? Read what FYROM Albanians say. They say 'to cut off the wings of emerging Islamic fundamentalism'. Don't you care about that? Aren't you interested? Do you want Turkey to have a greater influence on you to be patriots? We're also done with the aluterism. What did Constantine Karamanlis, Constantine Mitsotakis and all the Prime Ministers of the country ask for? They asked not to raise a minority issue. It's over with constitutional change. Article 49 is equivalent to Article 118. They asked not to claim borders. It is a whole chapter on recognition of borders. And they were asking not to have symbols against us. That's over, too. So what happened? They accepted International Law. Does that bother you? And they answer some: "Yes, but you know, Mr Kotzia, Macedonia is one and Greek." Have you heard that? I'll leave three things. One is the “Alphabetari of the Macedonian issue”, which was shared by “Kathimerini”. Neither the "RIZOPASS" nor the "SAGI" shared it. "KATHMERINI" shared it. The second is the Bucharest Agreements. And thirdly, the "Eleftherios Venizelos man, leader", his most amazing biography. What's it called there? It's called this history that you should all know when you say one and only Greek Macedonia. That thanks to Eleftherios Venizelos, with the Treaty of Bucharest of 1913 we took our Macedonia, we took our Kavala! And how did we get them? We took them against the Treaty of Saint Stefanos in 1878, which, under the influence of Russia, passed most of the part that was in the Ottoman Empire called Macedonia in Greece - this is our Macedonia - which coincides with ancient Greek Macedonia geographically. Bulgaria, called Pirin's Macedonia, kept a piece of it, and Yugoslavia took a piece from which a piece later, that is, when Yugoslavia became Yugoslavia, took Montenegro and from Montenegro came up with a small piece in Albania. So we are not talking about Macedonia of antiquity, because Macedonia of antiquity has been taken by us. The agreement recognizes that it is purely Greek, history and cultural heritage of Greek, that they have nothing to do with the people and as a language with the Greek heritage. But we took with the Treaty of Bucharest in 1913 this part which is Greek Macedonia. And now I ask: do our friends deny the recognition of the Treaty of Bucharest by the parties? Do they want to revise the treaty which gave the three Macedonian geography - the Ottoman period, which passed with Saint Stefano in Bulgaria and the Balkan wars? Did Venizelos do well, or are you still in the king's headquarters, who refused to pay off and accept the great work of Eleftherios Venizelos in Bucharest? That's the question. Do you accept International Law, or do you represent the Turkolages, which you want to revise international treaties and do not apply? Remember our Kavala and Macedonia we took it from this treaty. But in this treaty, the geographical region of Macedonia - not history, not culture, not the legacy of ancient Greek Macedonia - shared the way it was described in what I will testify for the Minutes. Some say to me: 'You traitors'. I can hear it from different parties. Let me tell you. They are traitors who delivered to Bulgarian Fascism during World War II Kavala back we had taken in 1913. It's traitors who worked with German fascism. They are the traitors who handed over Cyprus. I will not be told by the Greek extreme right about treason when they could and where they had influenced they did betrayals real and not metaphysics! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I recommend that you read Antonis Samaras' statements on the day of his expulsion from Constantine Mitsotakis. He says: 'I leave the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because I have disagreements with the Prime Minister'. And what's his main disagreement that night? It's easy to find. For it says Prime Minister Mitsotakis that they accept that they are Macedonians, and it does not raise a question of their qualification as citizenship as Macedonians. Constantine Mitsotakis raised this issue first. Let's get to know each other. Second what else? In an interview he himself was nominated to become a Prime Minister said: "You could negotiate a composite name", it is the only time you have said it, "as an extreme red line. But it should be erga omnes the deal with a change of constitution. And that's never gonna happen." This was your maximum red line in 2008-2012. Erga omnes and constitutional changes that will never happen! And they did. And now that they're done, you've discovered that you have a problem with language and ethnicity, citizenship. Let me tell you. In northern Macedonia there was a constitutional change that was agreed, which says that citizenship and citizenship are not ethnic. But there's something else. There is a little Europeanism. Let's remember him a little bit at last. What is this Europeanism? That European citizenship exists in the European Union. I hope you've heard of it. Has anyone ever talked about a European nation these days because there is European citizenship and citizenship?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u404	What does one have to do with the other?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u405	What's the connection? That words don't match! If you can't understand that, too, you've been given a school graduation because that's in elementary school!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u406	Here's to find out!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u407	Let's go down. You can't stand the truth and half-hearted is a bad thing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u408	That's a bad thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u409	Citizenship is not the same as ethnicity. The constitutional change in Skopje proves that. European citizenship proves that in Brussels. Whichever level you go. Local, intermediate, European doesn't come out. In addition, international law does not even exist in this concept of nationality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u410	There isn't!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u411	But what can I do to you? That's all you know. You think international relations and international law are corn to spend our time. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u412	So what's the need for I.D.?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u413	Let's go to the language. In the language, as Mr Karamanlis quite rightly said, in 1977, you ate this issue with a government of Constantine Karamanlis. It writes the telegram of the time: "For language it should be said that in 1977 the United Nations' international meeting on geographical names took place in Athens. You see, he writes the facts as a diplomat. He doesn't write Babiniotis, who goes back to justify. Listen. 'Then under pressure from the former Yugoslavia, we agreed that there are two languages in the country in question: Serbian and Macedonian. 'Macedonia'. You accepted it in 1977. We negotiated it as a country. We had to negotiate this in 1992-1994, and we did not even have a representative in the ISO negotiations. To go to the most important of the language. Who is disturbed by the "Macedonian" language more than anyone? Bulgarian nationalists. They have a real and practical problem. Why do they have a real practical problem? Because the Embassy Agreement we have made highlights that this is a Slavic language. And if I had time, I would give you volumes of negotiation that you accept the Slavomacedonian, and FYROM will be called Slavonia, namely Macedonia! That language, what did we do? We say in Article 7(4) of the Agreement that it is a South-Slavic language. Why would it bother us that it is South-Slavish language and has nothing to do with Alexander? It's bothering other our neighbors. Not generally our neighbors. The far-right, Bulgarian Defence Minister who tells Zaev: "Stop talking about Macedonian language." Let me remind you of something from history. These people took the title "Macedonians", "Slavumacedonians", "North-Macedonians", etc., because they wanted to separate themselves from the Bulgarians and the Serbs. They didn't want to separate him from us. Paul Mellas mentioned earlier, how many pieces of his text speaks of that language? We didn't give it to them. But they were given by you. And now you're acting like the story just started right now just this lately. Well, I'll be done. There is no problem with citizenship, no legal problem, no political problem. The language was given back forty years. The diplomats wrote it and the UN underlined it. That doesn't change. And what we changed and no one had thought of it, is to change the clarification that this is a Slavic language and a slavic. Our country has an upgraded role in the region and instead of having our northern enemies and friends in Turkey, we will have them together to resolve all the issues in our region. Thank you. I'll see you when we discuss the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u414	Thank you Mr. Nikos Kotzias, MP of SYRIZA. Mr Eleftherios Ausgeakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u415	After the lecture of the academic Mr. Kotzias we were left with many questions, the truth being said, because we were expecting the former Foreign Minister of SYRIZA, Mr. Kotzias, to answer us on more serious issues than he analysed. We waited for him to tell us, for example, what was contained in his long-reached resignation letter, which he delivered to Mr. Tsipras. We were waiting, Mr Kotzia, for you to tell us all the things you have allowed us to be suspended all this time for members of the government, but much more specifically, for Mr Kammenos. You did not do it while you had the opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, what is now happening every day between Mr Tsipras, Mr Kammenos, but also Mr Kotzias just before, this peculiar relationship that has developed between them, does not only have aesthetic consequences. It is the deep crisis of legitimisation of the government and what it does to avoid elections, and hence the fall of the most aesthetically, institutionally and politically also. This is because in the last few days an extremely poor performance has been evolving by Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Kammenos, but also Nikos Kotzias. Mr Kotzias pretends to be the wounded one, who took the responsibilities away from him, and who immediately did everything else bad, and he had in all respects and knowledge. Mr. Tsipras, of course, represents the political leader. It throws dice in the blurred waters of populism and demagogy and tries to set traps in the opposition. He pretends to be the leader responsible, builds contacts abroad and fantasizes that he will, in this way, influence his electoral outcome. Evidently he does not realize that his fate will be like that of a squeeze of lemon worms. On the other hand, after playing with the refugee, with the tolerance of the sensitive left, after making his trips with the plane that he would sell - we all remember it - after gambling at the casino, after he did his shopping in the luxury shopping malls in London, after being caught with the frying back, trying to sell guns on the black market, after he smuggled the firefights, when they dared to complain to him and tell him what they lived, after he had accepted the worst deal that could be made for the name-planning, for which his eyees are plunging today, he jumped just the day before the boat, and managed to run an election campaign. And the worst, ladies and gentlemen, is that Mr Kammenos requires the Greek people, to swallow unreservedly, and Mr Kammenos and his improvisation, both with them, which is difficult because of the size of mockery. Swallow the most "sic" divorce of all time, a man who in a hypocrisy recital plays the revolutionary, the ultrapatriot, but in his depth fits gloomy that "whoever cuts he ends up chickens". Because only a hen of the size of Mr Kammenos could direct all this exceptionally malicious theatre that offends politics and, of course, parliamentism. After he went and shared in front of the cameras, after he remembered - listen, listen! - Grammos, since he was severe and serious, went to die even for Macedonia, gives four votes to Mr Tsipras to make sure he remains in power and, of course, the Prespecies's Agreement will pass, and then he voluntarily stated that he departs, that he deletes the two, in order to be strict, and keeps the other two Members of Parliament, to continue to be the leader of a party that maintains the prerogatives of the party leader with a parliamentary group. If that, ladies and gentlemen, is it not the culmination of ridiculousness, then what is it? And you know, it's a big surprise to us all that's been happening these days. For example, I saw an over-representation of many executives, like Mr Kotzia a little earlier, telling us that everything goes extremely well, that the Prespecies Agreement, for example, increases the country, creates security, as he said earlier, strengthens borders and so forth. Do you really think you're working, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL? I am sorry, Mr Kotzia, but you do not even convince the members of the 'GREAT TOURACH'. You challenge the Greeks. Of course it makes a very big impression, how does a government, supposedly every word in the Constitution, mean that it is a government that, as it said, gives particular importance to people's and political legitimacy, how, in the end, are you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, accepting to govern with a similar majority? How do you accept this governmental and parliamentary craving? Why do you move on to a lot of election avoidance tricks? What are you really afraid of, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL? Are you afraid of something? Because you seem to be afraid, and along with Kammenos, you are the subject of an absolute and suffocating blackmail by Mr. Tsipras. For such an impulse to go through "so I want", with a government of rags, with a similar majority, the poor and nationally dangerous Prespecies Agreement has no precedent. Why don't you give the Greek people the opportunity to decide, moving directly to elections? Why are you afraid of the popular feeling in the end? Or to put it differently, if you are not afraid of anything, then you have received exchanges. What exchanges have the willing MPs received to give a vote of confidence in a collapsed government? They should explain their attitude, and we hope that they will be given the opportunity to take a stand, to go to plenary and also to Greek citizens and to say clearly what arguments some months ago they did not trust the government and a few months later they were convinced that this government is doing well. Because those who say yes to the vote of confidence say in substance yes to the Presidencies' Agreement. Of course, it is quite clear that when Mr Kammenos said that the Annells would leave the government, he meant only himself, because there is no party, it is a party anymore. His MPs have been abducted and his party has been "expressed" by Mr. Tsipras, and he has completely dedicated himself to keeping this government upright. However, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kammenos's attitude even now is silent consent and behind the back-up of Mr Tsipras's government, and let him do what he wants, the truth is that he can no longer mock anyone even the few followers he has left. If Mr. Kammenos wanted to take Mr. Tsipras on the occasion of the Prespecies Agreement, he had in the summer when he gave us the opportunity when he cast his pen to Mr. Kotzias to sign this infamous agreement. Today he could avoid lending him MPs and yet he did. Mr Kammens remains a partner, a silent co-pilot and, of course, a co-responsible for the outcome of the Prespecies Agreement. Both of them, apart from partners, are nothing more than Nightmare for modern Greece. In the vote of confidence tomorrow we will all be confronted with history. Those who say yes to the government say yes to the Embassy Agreement. Both are against the people's will. That is why we must go to elections immediately and decide what course our country will follow, not the Danish MPs and, above all, the false patriots. Citizens can no longer withstand this decline. They do not want a governmental slogan of willing men who forget their positions in front of promises of ministerial positions in exchange. The country cannot afford to sell out any more, other uncertainty, other instability and other hypocrisy. Neither can the ensembled and devastated economy last long. The signs are visible and the consequences will be irreversible. You all know that in depth and we all know that very well. We invite you to make the right choice. We call on you to end this pragmatism, to vote against the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and to go directly to elections. The Greeks deserve better and we'll make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u416	Thank you to Mr Eleftherios Augnakis, Member of the New Democracy. We are going with Mr Christos Katsotis, MP of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u417	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause]] What does Mr Tsipras, ministers, MPs and other SYRIZA officials claim to be a vote of confidence today? The Embassy Agreement. We have heard here and Mr Kotzias develop his position for it. The JRC once again says that this agreement is dangerous to the peoples of our country and our neighbours, because it is precisely to integrate the neighbouring country into NATO, and NATO is not a strength of security and stability. It's a war power, it's a murderous organization. You're all hiding that. That is why no one is speaking, because you are all particularly in agreement with this decision with the design of NATO and the imperialist organisations. They are also invoked by positive bills, which, as they now say, since the Memorandum and strict supervision ended, can be carried. But what's the truth? All the Memorandums and all the Measures are in force, all the implementing laws that have been in place so far, which are over seven hundred, and of course the Commission is continuing. I am talking specifically about the increase in the minimum wage. SYRIZA claims New Democracy and PASOK that in 2012 by a cabinet act reduced the minimum wage from EUR 751 to EUR 586 and EUR 511 respectively for young people under twenty-five years, a reduction of EUR 165 and EUR 200 respectively a month. Yeah, that's right. This is what the New Democracy and the PASOK as well as the LAOS, which are now being presented differently. Then SYRIZA was tearing up his clothes. What did he do next when he became a government? He kept hunger wages for four years and the shameful underpaid wages. Like all the other parties, it rejected the proposal for a law of the five hundred thirteen organisations which only tabled by the JRC, as, of course, it rejected the amendment we tabled recently, on the basis of the Ahchioglou amendment, which owned the Brutsis Act, which provided that the minimum wage would be determined by a ministerial decision. When New Democracy passed the Brutsi Act, SYRIZA committed itself to reinstateing the minimum wage at EUR 751, abolishing the underpaid wage and reintroducing collective labour contracts. What did he do as a government? We said that he brought the Ahchioglu amendment, which triggers the Brutsi Act. To all of you who see us now, we say that SYRIZA and New Democracy permanently abolish collective bargaining for the minimum wage. The increase today can be reduced tomorrow. The criteria of the law ensure the interests of large business groups. The minimum wage will be shaped as much as the mechanisms of the urban state and the strong employers' associations will be indicated. That is not a positive measure. It is a reactionary measure, gentlemen of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, but also of those who will vote for this measure. It is in complete contrast with the needs of workers, with the same class claim, with the minimum right for workers to fight for wage increases, to improve working conditions. The government leaks that the minimum wage increase will be at 7-8%, at around 630 euros mixed. What does that leak prove? That in this period of memorandum as you say it, the minimum wage will remain reduced by EUR 120 per month compared to the EUR 751 that was in 2012 and at one night it became EUR 586. The New Democracy has introduced the underpaid wage, flexible forms of employment, the work of young people with 300 euros without other rights. But what a hypocrisy. We have heard the President of the New Democracy today shedding crocodile tears for the generation of 360 euros. It is this generation of the same politics and the New Democracy and SYRIZA. What did the government do with the disgrace of the underprivileged wages with the generation of 360 euros? It has kept the underpaid wage for four years and is now claiming to abolish it but at the same time committed to business groups to subsidising employers' social security contributions to 50%. Thus, the abolition of the underpaid wage will be charged to the state budget instead of to enterprises employing young workers. It's going to be reloaded by the working people's households through the tax payroll. We are informing workers that any increase of some euros to the minimum wage will be eliminated by the preferential tax reduction in 2020, which from EUR 8.636 is reduced to EUR 5.681, at an additional EUR 470 per year. It will also be evaporated by the escalation of the popular income attack with all sorts of taxes and raisins. The State Budget for 2019 provides for 1 billion euros of extra taxes. Any increase in the price of essential goods for people's consumption will be eliminated. We have to say that the Committee of Experts has submitted to the Ministry of Labour the conclusion of the minimum wage. According to this, even an increase in the minimum wage of 10% will lead to an increase in wage costs of just 2.86% in the economy as a whole, while for large companies with over fifty employees the cost of wage costs is estimated at only 1%. At the same time, on behalf of the monopolistic groups, the Government maintains intact all the anti-gauge, all forms that increase their profitability and the exploitation of the working class. The proportion of flexible forms of work from 10% to total workers in 2013 was now escalated to 22%. In 2018, of the new jobs created, 61% were part-time, rotating jobs, day-to-day and other such forms. The government is committing to increasing the minimum wage to the great overthrow. He claims to support work, that normality begins to come back and that it is friendly. The Committee of Experts itself, however, disproves them, since, as we have said, the increase in wage costs is only 1%, that is to say, to the limits indicated by the business groups. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] It is characteristic that while in 2017 total employment was 27%, compared with 2011, the wage costs of enterprises decreased by 6.3%. Cumulatively, both the New Democracy and the PASOK and SYRIZA have led to the minimum wage and the hourly wage, which, as is seen in the expert findings, is currently at the same level as in 1980 and 4.2% below the level of 1995. They claim, of course, that they are reintroducing state collective labour agreements. They're lying. Only ten sectoral collective agreements were extended to the papers. And we say on paper why they apply where workers are organized in their unions, where they claim with all their consequences, with terrorism, with threats, with redundancies. 90% of workers are without any collective agreement, because employers do not come when they are invited by the trade unions, and they have the full freedom through the overthrow of the law providing for collective bargaining. With this anti-government arsenal, companies impose the work jungle and the continuous declining of wages. This is your achievement. This risk is being taken, the constant smash of the working, people's family, the policy of maintaining poverty, the uncertainty of insecurity, especially of young children. You cannot deceive the working, people's family with lollipops, with the redistribution of unemployment and poverty. These class anti-Semitism policies, the demands of monopolistic groups, the imperialist countries, apply to the memorial period the government, using suppression, terrorism and the use of any other means to subject workers and the people to prevent their participation in the struggles. That is why the government has legislated the law on strikes that effectively abolishes this right. Finally, it does not hesitate to present itself with the mask of the left, to invoke the insurmountables of their urban struggle, the dead communists from the civil state, capital, their governments to create confusion among the people. You have the confidence of business groups, of the European Union, of NATO, of the United States, as New Democracy and PASOK had before. The JRC does not give a vote of confidence and calls on the people in association with the JRC. Because without a strong JRC workers will not have strength in the fight to cover their losses, in order to claim modern needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Aristides Fokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made the brave decision to join the Independent Greeks, and the call of Panos Kammenos to be present. Today we are not talking about taxation on companies that are 29%, about the new tax burden of 27% that came to businesses through insurance contributions, about the advance payment of a 50% tax that went gradually to 100% in companies, and today tax exceeds 70% of profits in companies. Compared to other European Union countries, such as Hungary, taxation is 9% for businesses. Their unemployment is 3.5%. Unemployment in young people is 9.5%. There, the Hungarian people and government had the courage to defend and control their currency, the central bank and their borders. They are in the European Union and NATO. Where have we been under pressure to deliver the name Macedonia and in return? Today we are not even talking about the end of the third programme, where they made EUR 24 billion and if there is some sort of saving fund for borrowers at some point. Let me remind you that Mr Draghi said it was Greece's decision how he would manage the EUR 24 billion. Today, are we here to give a vote of confidence to the government for a bill that will come in the future? Oh, no. As Mrs Ahtsoglou has announced, legislation can come in the future, such as the bill on the debts of the free professionals to their fund over the years of the crisis between 2010 and December 2016, that all these debts will be redefined and deducted with interest and surcharges, and that remains from this amount will go to a hundred and twenty instalments. We are not talking about such a bill, which we will applaud, we will vote on it. Today, the Government calls for a vote of confidence, because the Independent Greeks and Panos Kammenos decided not to trust this government any more, in the big national theme that is the tradition of the name Macedonia, the national identity and the "Macedonian" language in the country of Skopje. The battle to stop the Prespecies Agreement is starting today in the House. The Independent Greeks, first and best on Panos Kammenos, prove that they do not count on anyone and nothing, in front of the question of voting for the Prespecies Agreement in the Greek Parliament. The Independent Greeks withdrew their support to the government, with the sole aim of stopping this agreement. That's why we're here today. We do not need to analyse the presidencies' agreement very much. Article 36 of the Skopje Constitution refers to so-called Macedonian and so-called Macedonian people, for allegedly self-determination of Macedonian nation, for allegedly self-determination of Macedonian people, for the abolition of borders, for the unification of the "Macedonians" with the Macedonians. This agreement provides that this State will be called "North Macedonia", citizenship will be a 'Macedonian' and it concerns all the citizens of the country. Citizenship knows it creates identity, so it recognizes ethnicity. The language will be called "Macedonian". International symbols will be 'MK', i.e. 'Macedonia'. Their goods will be Macedonian. For them, Macedonia will be part of the name of a political entity, while for us it will only be a region of Greece. We do not need to analyse the Prespecies Agreement any more. As long as we listen carefully to the hundreds of academics who have explained what has happened. There are historical archaeologists. Is there even one indication that the country of Skopje is Macedonia? Nothin'. They have orchestrated their entire country, all Skopje is angry and not a single find of Macedonian, while Macedonian graves have been found up to India and Egypt. They have nothing to do with our Macedonia. The country of Skopje, which is also yesterday in world history, passed the Ambassadors' Agreement with an increased ratio from their parliament. We, where we are historically the country that gave birth to the Republic, why do we not want an increased majority of eighty Members? For these reasons, and for many more reasons, I call on all SYRIZA Members and much more Macedonian Members not to listen to what we have heard just now from Mr Kotzias, his historical ambiguities, that only Bulgarians are allegedly annoyed by the Macedonian language that we grant to the Skopje rather than us. He said Macedonian ethnicity is nothing, it has nothing to do with it. I answer him: Greece is Macedonia and Macedonia is Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Stathis Panagulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u421	Mr President, the historian of the future will record the period that we are going through as a period of absolute sepsis and decline and will characterise the current government as a refene government. The valour of interlocutory always needs two. In the last few days, we have seen a lot of these waltzes. And while the government and the partners dance well, citizens mourn. Suicide doesn't need many but one. I am really curious whether SYRIZA Members can now applaud the speech of the President of the Independent Greeks, Mr Kammenos and former associate of SYRIZA. The political scene, which we have experienced over the last few days, reflects the comico-tragic situation in which the country has come. We've seen each other's charges for secret funds and massages. We saw the 50m euros dance, mentioned by Mr Kammenos on the cabinet, that the former Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzias, and the Prime Minister and the parties involved, took 'the pavement'. Really, who manages this money and what purpose? Mr. Kotzias spoke a moment ago and referred to Skopje. But the conversation will take place on Tuesday or Wednesday. He could've said it then. He didn't tell us anything about this heavy charge that the President of the Independent Greeks put forward. He said the late and honorable politician, Yiannis Ziggis: "Unfortunately, the oils can't afford them the money in the hand." We also saw what happened with the former Member of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Kokalis. While he resigned on Saturday 12 of the month and became independent, Mr. Kammenos deleted him yesterday. It's the first time that these absurdities and comedian things have been made, to erase a Member of Parliament who is independent! Mr President, we have seen all her majesty these days. Outside the House of Greek teachers, who teach our children learning and knowledge, were beaten fiercely. We saw the injury of our colleague, Mr Delis, on Friday in the course of the teachers - and we must note that Mr Delis is a teacher - who, in addition to the burns in the hand that caused him a shine grenade - which has recklessly cast the Government's hand - suffered and damaged hearing. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it is disgraceful that we should give permission to one who has killed eleven citizens and has taken him to rural prisons. The rural prison is like being free. That's the reality. And we saw him released a week ago, with progeny known as political jackals, in Bucharest, in America and in Syntagma Square. The government claims to have put out the bars in front of the Unknown Soldier. But they don't need the bars anymore, because they're replaced with bailiffs and chemicals. We have seen Herod Attikos Street for four years now turned into a private road. It has turned into a fortress, which can only be passed by the populous Prime Minister and his associates. We saw the government legitimize everything, as much as any other government to date, by remembering the phrase of American President John "Adams 1797-1801: "The authority considers that it does God's will when it violates all his laws." I also intended to refer to the fate of education and health, but I was covered by that by my colleague, Andreas Loverdes. In today's vote it goes without saying that I am not willing to vote in favour of the Refene Government. Because, as the French poet Robert Sabatier rightly said, “There are some worse than the incompetent. They are the ones who are capable of everything." Mr President, I would like to stress, with all the strength of my voice, that I shall vote against the government's proposal for a vote of confidence. Besides, we don't need most of us because he's found the number of fifty-one. I would like to say something else, Mr President. The Vice-President of the Independent Greeks, Mr Sguridis, rightly said that some have received exchanges. I leave it to the Greek people's crisis to think about what exchanges may exist. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitris Emmanoulidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is common belief that political time is dense and particularly critical. We do live historical times. The duty of all of us is to stand up to the circumstances, as history is not going to be given to anyone. By guided by common sense, let me put this thought out of Step, free of party patriotism. I'm coming to the object. Within a few days, there will be two extremely critical votes, which will determine the future of our country and our people. The second concerns the ratification of the Presidencies Agreement. The first is that which we are discussing and which concerns the vote of confidence that the Prime Minister has requested from the House, which is not dictated by any constitutional requirements. But let's see how it turned out. It is known that the Civic Opposition from January 2015 until today five times a week, Monday to Friday, calls for elections. As far as the miracle is concerned, while today it is given the opportunity to table a motion of censure against the government, in its friendly tactics,'strong through the engagement', it has renounced the possibility provided by the Constitution. Against the fugitives of the New Democracy, what was the government's attitude? The Prime Minister, taking responsibility, points to the responsibility of the country, the people and history in his public commitment. He decides to apply to the House for a vote of confidence. As it was not due by the Constitution, it pledges in advance that it will lead the country to elections if it fails to secure fifty one votes. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the leader who holds authority. Leader becomes the one who synchronizes his inside watch with the watch of history, when he assumes historical responsibility and is ready to fight for the common good, giving his attitude to the example, when he knows that the people advance, only when the common good is placed above the individual interests and when he speaks to the people in a straightforward manner, guiding him, in the interest of his country. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a last resort to human beings when words lose their true meaning. Thucydides in the "pathology of war" said attributes: "To justify their actions, they even changed the meaning of words." In this regard, the Civic Opposition, having lost every political argument, resorts to its only and permanent practice of trying to distort reality. He denounces us in this regard for attempting to destabilise the political system, speaking of apostasy. I am going back to the dictionary: a distance equals the removal of Members from a political party, which is governed by conditions, which have a strong character of betrayal. The facts of July 1965 are the epitome of the term. The Members of the Centre's Association, by their apostasy, throw the elected government, thus creating a political crisis, which led to the national adventure of the democracy, culminating in the tragedy of Cyprus. I'm coming to his today. The ministers and parliamentarians, during the budget vote a month ago, gave the government a vote of confidence. That is exactly what they are doing now. They shall, in their vote, confirm the will to continue the government's work. I understand, of course, Mr Mitsotakis' misgivings. His word is a revelation of his political despair. He knows that his political failure dictates the misery of his words. "If the other mistakes, to him consciences", Mr Mitsotakis, were to be heated: "If the other deceivers, your conscience would know." In this internal monologue you are aware - and I honestly understand - of the lack of your political displacement. However, to resort to undocumented invasions against the former Chief of HNDGS and now Minister of Defence Mr. Apostolakis, who has honoured the military uniform throughout his term of office and demonstrated unique patriotic and democratic ethos, is last - and not only - misery. Mr Mitsotakis, you must not miss the fact that the public speech must be formulated with an absolute consciousness of political responsibility. I will also make a necessary point. It is self-evident that you know your relative environment. The meaning is, since the word of your relative Spandidakis. Ladies and gentlemen, in a reversal of my previous position from this Step, I had tabled a paradox at first hearing. I had formulated the wish that God might keep Mr. Mitsotakis and Adoni strong to keep our Government long. I would like to present the same wish today, although this wish leads to a political deficit, since the role of Officerial Opposition is particularly necessary for the escalation of political life. I will say a few words lately about KINAL, which, today, as a sad political company, has lost political and social orientation, has turned into a sad monitoring of the neoliberal New Democracy, envying the fate of the Hurricanes. As you know, Hermes, Hermes’ marble busts in ancient Athens, served as guides. Indicators in the political course of your uterus, PASOK, I will not get tired of reminding you - were the forms of manolis Brittakis, Peponis, Charalambopoulou, Agergenos, which were the way to socialism. Their sad ancestors are today's company, which wiped out the guides and led the party to political indignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u424	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u425	In a minute and thank you, Mr President. 'The blunt ears, the blurred ears, the eyes are the same'. And you don't see, you don't hear, you don't humiliate the calls of our times and people, who want and demand from the progressive parties the coexistence and entreat against the gray of neoliberalism and the black of fascism. In conclusion, I would like to point out that knowledge, the crisis in society, as well as the instinct of social self-conservation, lead us to believe that the social majority will be entrusted to us in the October elections for another four years for the country's governance. Until then, you can wait. Wait patiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u426	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u427	I thank my fellow Member for his wishes for God's goodness. He'll have us, Mr. Comrade. What happens to the elections will be decided by the Greek people and then we will see. So let us go, ladies and gentlemen, to respond a little to two of Mr Tsipras's basic arguments this morning. Mr. Tsipras said to us: 'Revolutionaries...', he said, '...it is only those who are trying to cast a government and not those who come from the opposition to support it. Therefore, every reference to apostasy for what the House has been living in the last 24 hours is unreasonable, because it is contrary to the definition of apostasy." Mr. Tsipras reminds us of this proverb: "My name is Rizzo and as I turn it, because in 2014, he explained to us the same thing as Mr. Skourletis and all his other MPs that those of the opposition would vote for Mr. Stavros Dimas for President of the Hellenic Republic and, in fact, they had denounced the attempted privatization. They had also had a show with Lazopoulou, Vaxevanis and Haikalis and several of them. Of course, for the preliminary examination that the Greek Justice then opened, the titles became vulgar, but for the fact that this examination entered the file, without finding anything at all, no one learned it. So, just so you know, when someone in the opposition votes against Mr. Tsipras's House is a renegade. When someone is in the opposition and votes in favour of Mr. Tsipras's House is a good honest man and there is no problem. This is Alexis Tsipras and how serious we must take him. But he said something else, which is even more funny. Mr. Chakalotos said that, and this is where you were applauding SYRIZA. He said it with a stumblingstone: "Ma, Mr. Mitsotakis since May 2016", well - he had not elected President of the New Democracy, "has called for elections". If that's possible! September, said we had the elections and in May 2016 asked for elections? And you were applauding underneath. I testify for the Practical Publications as of November 7, 2012: "Elections requested again by Alexis Tsipras". Indeed, Mr Tsipras says at that time - I recall that the elections were in June, that is to say in four months - 'We are not asking for elections because you lied to your programme. We ask because we feel that if you continue, this place is in danger." [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] To collect it, if you ask for an election four months after the previous day, but you're Tsipras, it's an act of national responsibility, and you can certainly do it, because it's right. If you ask for an election nine months after the previous election, but you're not Tsipras, it's something you must laugh about, applaud, and do all that nonsense. I say this to understand that all your arguments are humiliating your past. But now we're going to the big one, and I'm glad that my favourite Minister, Mr. Paulakis, is here. So let's see the exchanges, talk about exchanges. I am tabling the Minutes, June 2018 - look, June 2018, six months ago - Mrs Kouturas for the Prespes says: 'If this agreement comes to Parliament, the Independent Greeks will not support it. When and after he comes to the Greek Parliament, if he ever comes, we will vote against it. I repeat once again, let us see who will vote for it then." I make the statement from Mrs Koudura on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the statement referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What happened in six months and from where Mrs Koundura wondered who these MPs would vote for the Prespecies Agreement, she states that 'I am not entering micro-political games and, of course, I am also voting for Ambassadors and Government and everything'? She told us a few things about Mrs. Kundura, but yesterday, who do you think? Mr. Polakis' favorite friend. Here, then, I read from facebook: "Pavlos Paulakis: On the birthday of Panos (we have two days' difference)" - live, Minister - "And where our evil wants to riddle the bee and not touch the legs of chamom", a nice Cretan mandarin. Paul and Pano are hollow. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] There's a little problem. Mr. Paulakis has written hundreds of post about how much he hates the far right, the junta, for me, of course, about the autograph and the dedication of the Pattakus, for Vorides, everything. Do you not tell me, dear Paul, now that Mr. Kammenos yesterday, your friend said this - leave what Georgiadis said - Kammenos said: "The father of Koudoura wrote the anthem of 21 April", do you accept to remain a minister in the vote of the lady born of the man who wrote the anthem of 21 April and which, of course, you do not question, after your friend Panos has said so? I'm presenting it for the Minutes. And don't tell me about family responsibility. Listen why you can't tell me that now. Because this morning Mr. Tsipras made the other colossal mistake. He said to Mr Mitsotakis, "Don't you talk, Mr Mitsotakis, about apostasy, with the family tradition you have." So, Mr. Tsipras, here in Stepa, in the morning, fully adopted the charges of family responsibility. So if Mitsotakis cannot speak because of family responsibility, Kodura cannot speak as well and those who are together with Koundura, i.e. Paulakis, Tsipras and you on April 21st. Because it will be something very strange to blame me all the time for right-wing, Voridis or anyone else, but not to think of you as far-right Mrs Kounduras, whose father, of course, was also the well-known founder of the Greek Association. So - to know now - the inch-five-first vote of the Left Government is based in Mrs Kounturas, who - according to Paul's friend, Pano - is the daughter of the author of the anthem of 21 April. But are you going to say, well, Adonai, now are we going to deal with Koudura's father? Whatever Koudura's father wanted to do. That's right. I accept it because I do not adopt the disgust that Mr Tsipras said this morning about family responsibility. But now we're going to Mrs. Kundura's own. Let me get this straight, guys, what are we talking about? Who are those who are now supporting your Government and will you stay as ministers? And I'm going fast to the big one. I'm leaving it around iPhone. I'm just putting it down for the Minutes because there's too much on the Internet. He had to pay the Greek State 1,400 euros iPhone to Mrs Koudoura two weeks ago - curious that we got her so expensive - because Mr Kammenos was calling her and could not raise, he says, the phone. He didn't work well, despite 1,400 euros. In any case, I leave that. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But I'm going to the big one. Hey, guys, there's Paul, this Leventis of Crete, wasn't the first thing CEDEFOP to do? My Minister, wasn't the CDC the first issue in Greece? Two years of studying, the adverts of CEDEFOP, you, your friend Costakis Vaxebanas, troubles, exams, prosecutors? I'm going to testify for the relevant facts. How much money has Mrs. Kuntura taken from CDC, you know? And I'm talking about Mrs Koudura herself, not her father, the editor of the anthem of 21 April. SIGMA ALFA MI ANONYMIC TRADE - I submit for the minutes the statute of the public limited company - you will see that within the board the first is Papachristopoulos Sarantis, her husband Koudoura and third is Elena Koudoura, herself. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] My Minister, you who have searched the money of the euro CCTB - euro, haven't you learned how much Kundura got? Over 1.5 million. See that in a month alone, it took 110,000 euros. For eighteen months it took. Aren't you telling me, Minister, that I'm sorry about're' - the money if people take it is bad money from CEDEFOP, but what if Kundura gets it, who supports you, to be Minister, is good money from CEDEFOP? I'm telling you, to understand how far-sighted, hypocrites and liars you are. To keep a chair, you don't even care about the vote or the bucket of ministerial chairs or anything. You only care about one thing: Win another eight months in power. Why? Because you will 'change Europe'. The one you have not changed in four years, you will now change it in these eight months, because Europe has been waiting for Tsipras for the last eight months, at the end, to change it. So, to collect and close, this government, which will obviously take a vote of confidence tomorrow, because money is a lot. I mean the exchange money, so I wouldn't get off with it. I don't do bad hoods and bags and disgusting things. Here are the exchanges, obviously. One gets Ministry, the other gets State Department. That's in return for real, not funny. This is how things are done with Tsipras: "Take up, boy, a chair and give it the vote." Yes, sir. And since some of you had the nerve to talk about me and Vorides, I would remind you that in 2012, when our party decided to change the vote, the first thing that I and Makis Vorides did, within an hour, was to come here to the General Secretariat of the Government, we resigned from ministers and then, after two days, we resigned from MPs. That's the difference. To remember them a little, because we're not all the same. We didn't do anything like Mr. Kokalis, who also talked about the betrayal of the Prespes, and now he likes the Prespes, or whatever the other gentleman does - and I'll close - my favorite, Terence Quick. Terrence Quick is certainly not a Member of Parliament to vote now, but if Mr Papachristopoulos gives the seat, he will then be a Member of Parliament. Terrence Quick is an international supporter of the Prespecies Agreement, unstoppable. It's all about how wise a deal it is. Mr Terrence Quick - take care - who had gone to the Merkel gathering, when he had come and painted his face not to be caught by the chemicals at that time - said: "If Merkel wants to call Macedonia," Skopje, against our will, I propose that we call the Fourth Reich Germany." I'll testify to that, too, to enjoy it, because one has not escaped. All the pillows you packed up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u428	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u429	I'm closing, Mr. President. So, to collect, with their money you have, with their chairs, promised me. You will be staying a while longer, unfortunately you will give Macedonia - this is the great damage to Greece - but it always remains a good one. You will humiliate the Left to the end, and this will be very useful for the future of this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Constantine Doussina, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u431	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u432	What do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u433	I want to take the personal floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u434	He referred to your name, without any designation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u435	I barely did a positive job.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u436	I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u437	In one minute I'm going to interrupt, I'm telling you, because you didn't have bad marks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u438	I'll talk at machine gun rate. First, clearly I was and I'm friends with Panos Kammenos. We collaborated honestly. I have very good relations with Pano Kammenos. I don't get anything behind what I said. We have a deep political disagreement on the issue of the Presidencies, and that seems to be the case. One - zero. Secondly, you are the last person to have and you have the nerve to talk about exchanges when you left LAOS to become Minister of Shipping in this government...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u439	What do you think? Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u440	Hand down, hand down. I could pick it up all the time. When you were talking, I'd have to be a butterfly. Once you left LAOS, having found thousands of videos circulating online, any New Democracy executive has been in existence for twenty years. Thirdly, I understand passion and fear because it has bought your color since the afternoon, with what's recently come out for your close associate with the company in Bulgaria. A year ago, some data have been available, which says that a civil servant - you went out and defended him in the three minutes when the post came out, from what I was told - has an advertising and communication company in Bulgaria. It is a country of the European Union, of course, but it is the company's money laundering. How does an employee of EUR 1,200 have a company in Bulgaria, which he then sells to someone here? What's that thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u441	Minister, finish it up. It can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u442	Why do you feel the need to defend him with the good morning?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u443	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u444	Because you were a Minister during the...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u445	It can't be, we've got derby in every session. There's a derby at every meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u446	...12,5 euros on the site “Belgium and Kick”; Don't tell me. I, too, have ordered management control of CEDEFOP from 2006 until today and I wish it had been over. When it's over, I'll sleep in peace, others don't know how to sleep.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u447	Mr President, just one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u448	Mr. Georgiadis, so did Mr. Paulakis and made full reports. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u449	First of all, let me say for the record that I don't know if you see me on the payroll, I saw a little bit of it, looking at how I look. The Minister has a colouring process, except for everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u450	I see, like a hawk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u451	Let's go a little now, Mr President, because that's serious. What did the Minister say? He says I sold out the LAOS to be Minister of Shipping. Very good. Let's go remind you, because you don't know them and I just want to think that because you weren't here you don't know them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u452	I wasn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u453	I became LAS Minister for Maritime Affairs, in the tripartite Government of New Democracy, PASOK and People's Orthodox Alert. When the People's Orthodox Alarm decided to leave this government, in one hour I resigned from the Ministry of Shipping and in two days I resigned from a Member. I stayed out of Parliament until the national elections and went down with a cross in New Democracy and was elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u454	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u455	So saying that I sold LAS to be Minister of Shipping is stupid, because I was Minister of Shipping with LAOS and I quit, just so people like you can't say that I did it for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u456	With the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u457	Mr. Georgiadis, that was understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u458	Secondly, I became Minister of the New Democracy after being elected by a cross by the neo-democrats. The neo-democratics won't give you an account. Okay? That's personal. I'm glad Panos Kammenos is your friend, and I'm glad you're supporting him today. This is what honours you, especially after Mr. Kammenos's attack yesterday on Mr. Nikos Voutsi, the President of the Parliament, for his family, for his son, which for me was extremely vulgar and I say it publicly. I have never attacked Mr. Voutsi or any left-wing official for his family, because I consider it vulgar and I tell you directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u459	Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u460	Yesterday, Mr. Kammenos devoured the President of the Greek Parliament for his son, and I'm glad you come here and you defend your friend Panos, so your people here know who we're talking about. For the rest, you're going to court...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u461	Mr. Georgiadis, the answers were given. Thank you very much. Mr. Dousina, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u462	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u463	There's no way. Please! Is that possible? Every observation you make gives rise to reaction. Mr. Georgiadis reacts and you come back. Is that what we're gonna do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u464	It's a matter of family.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u465	What family? Is there a matter with your own family?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u467	Any references to your family?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u468	Of course, because he's a liar. He comes out and says...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u469	He calls me a liar, Mr. President. I'll take the floor again, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u470	What's the staff, Minister? I beg your pardon, Mr Georgiadis made a reference to an observation by Kammenos in relation to Mr Voutsi. What's Mr. Paulakis doing? Who's gonna answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u471	The answer and the report are in Mr. Georgiadis' lies. And I remind you of one particular incident, because my attitude to Kammenos is politics, and that is what I honor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u472	You're friends.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u473	Mr Deusina, I am very sorry, but the Bureau is not to blame.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u474	...it drops the ball on the platform for the reports - which I have not seen - to Mr. Voutsi and his son, as he says, when he says he has never done it, who on the day we talked about the reference of the "NOVARTIS" scandal and the setting up of a committee of inquiry, closed his speech with a theatrical speech against me, using the problem of my cousin, the anestheticologist in Crete and dares and says he is not mentioned. Shame on you and disgrace. And he says he's never reported.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u475	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u476	What happens now? Is that possible? What do you want, Mr. Georgiadis? Are we going to report to your families in general? From the cousin to the niece to the son?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u477	I want the floor. He said a liar, a vulgar, he said everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u478	What happens now? We can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u479	Second minute, Mr President. My speech, Minister, on that day...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u480	Do you remember how your speech closed? You denounced me that I have intervened...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u481	Excuse me very much, but it's not a controversy. This is a political show. Please very much. Mr. Dousina, please go up to the Step, or they won't stop. There's no way they're gonna stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u482	You had intervened and after my speech, within twenty-four hours, the conclusion was sent to the family, which you kept with Ms. Papaspyrous eight months in the drawer, and that was not for families. She was for a dead girl and you kept it in the dark.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u483	Only a liar...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u484	Thank you very much. Mr. Dousina, start talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u485	That was in your duties and once again it seemed who you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u486	Mr. Georgiade, I'm sorry, but I'm gonna do something I've never done before, I'm gonna turn off the microphones. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Dousina, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u487	To return to the subject of our debate, I would like to speak at this point on the dawn of the day, on the future, on the new era and on the new Left, which has begun to emerge through the three debates which we have had over the last few weeks, on the budget debate, on the debate on the Ambassadors and, of course, on the debate on the Constitutional Review. I am, however, obliged to make two introductory remarks at the beginning of my speech. I was expecting Mr Georgiadis, because he is the established orator of the Neo-democratic extreme right, to have some new arguments, but I heard what I have heard all day long. I have heard you say 'co-operation, construction and conspiracy', not just by you, by all the speakers of the New Democracy. They seemed to have copied a non paper and called it over and over and over again, a continuous repetition. As you know, in psychoanalysis, this repetition is a psychotic defense mechanism with two basic features: transportation and dismissal. We deny our failure and then transfer it to others. This is what I have heard all day and really, the only comment I would like to make is: "Don't you get bored with saying the same thing all the time and not using the great imagination you have to have a new argument?" I would also like to make a second reference to a person whom I met in this House and I consider him to be one of the honest, honest and truly honest people in this Parliament, Spyros Dannelis. Spyros Danellis has been a member of the refreshing Left throughout his life. Since 1992, he has supported, in all ways, an attempt to resolve the Macedonian problem with a complex name. He's done it all his life, he's doing it now. I really feel lucky to meet Spyros for the last three years, and I have to recognise - and I think that others should recognise - his political and moral integrity. I would like to welcome him for what he is doing at the moment, putting the national interest above his own personal interest. However, I should like to return to what I have said, because for me I think that behind these three debates I have mentioned, it seems to indicate what the new left of the 21st century is with three components: patriotic internationalism, deepening democracy, reconversion of the social state. On the first point, three arguments concerning the press, which have not been heard in particular. I think the Prespecies Agreement has achieved the greatest upgrade of our country internationally. Yesterday I met twenty-seven ambassadors of the European Union at a working meal. For three hours I was asked and answered all our foreign policy issues, of course with the Prespes, most importantly. Those who spoke congratulated Greece on the Agreement and described it as a stability point in our region. The criticism of diplomats for the stand of counterpopulation was a storm. Secondly, the Prespes have been a unique success in recent years for Europe, for the European Union's foreign policy, because this agreement creates a repetitive international standard, a model for other, old and difficult conflicts. The arguments are well known. Mr. Kotzias said it in detail. I will only mention one, which goes to its worthy foundation. There is no relationship of friendship, there is no relationship of good neighbourliness between family and international environment, without respect for each other's dignity. It is this respect for this agreement, which makes it such a model for international relations around the world. The third reason is just as important. A black front, a Black International emerges in Europe and threatens its two major successes, the attack on nationalism, the attack on war and the change of wars with economic competition, which will achieve economic prosperity followed by solidarity. In this gracious environment, which all European political families recognize, beyond the New Democracy, the extreme right, the Prespes are a barrier to the right-wing, xenophobia, nationalism. They go contrary to what everyone has convicted. Our Government first declared in 2015 that neoliberalism and failed, according to its own recipes, but also destroys human lives. Today, this opinion has begun to take precedence over much of the European political class. Nowadays, then, we are sending a second message, that in this time of monsters we live in, in this dislocation between an old world, which has not died even of a young man who has not been born, is not just enough for words or sentences. We must have prostitutions against attacks, we must have acts in right-wing ethnicism. The Left today is the main patriotic and European power in Greece. The opposition, unfortunately, has abandoned its European advances and joins Orban, Salvini and Katsinski. The second thing I want to say about democracy relates to the constitutional review. I would just like to say very quickly that what we are introducing into the Constitution deepens the Parliamentary Republic by strengthening Parliament's control over the government, but at the same time doing something else: they give content to the principle of popular sovereignty, turning it, from a symbolic statement, into a material political reality. That is how we give popular participation, with national and local referendums and with the popular legislative initiative. In other words, we are bringing the people back to politics after years of delegating policy. The third is the strengthening of the social state. Beyond the specific policies we have discussed in the past - and in the budget debate and today many have mentioned them - we are strengthening them with constitutional changes a series of universal social rights for health, social welfare, work, the safeguarding of a decent standard of living, extending the rights for our fellow citizens, who face discrimination on gender, sexuality, gender identity. The opposition shall be answered by constitutionalisation of the Memorandum. We were told, of course, in the Committee on Constitutional Revision that if we do not have a balanced budget - because they want to introduce neoliberalism into the Constitution - then pensions will be cut off, wages will be cut. For us, social rights are not a safety net for our unfortunate and poor fellow humans, they are not a charity. The social state for us is what introduces the principle of social justice into a market economy. In other words, it is one way in which we are slowly trying to transform the wild capitalism of the markets towards a more socialised form. To conclude, I would say that for us the new Left, the first-century left, which has begun to be corrupted through the actions of the government, but also through the programme, from the vision shown in these last three major debates, is a definition of equality and democracy. As a horizon, as we approach it, it goes away. Every measure we take, which reduces inequality or deepens democracy, leads to a further measure. So we slowly build what we would call 'democratic socialism' in the first century. That's our difference. We have a vision that will change our country, a vision that will really be able to put Greece back at the heart of the democratic and socialist paradigm for Europe. That's why we're fighting. We have this horizon, which is not a utopia, which will never become a real socialism, whose recipe we know, and at some point we will say 'let him, see, we got him'. For us, we will never have the day to say "here we are, we have achieved it", because each step leads us to the next and only through this logic we will really be able to change Greece, but also to build the new vision of socialism for the whole of Europe and the world. This is the new Left, this is the twenty-first-first-century left and I think that everything we have done in the past three months, and of course, today this debate on the vote of confidence, confirms that we are the only patriotic European and democratic power in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u488	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u489	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on giving a vote of confidence in a government, and indeed, in the last part of its term of office, can only be about the overall picture of the government's work. For those of us who belong to the progressive space, the question we have to answer today is whether the current government implements policies aimed at realising the economic crisis, with growth and social cohesion. He hasn't. The budget, which has recently been adopted, has abolished the record of net exit from the crisis, so we have voted against it. The government has as its sole budgetary objective the hunting of excessive primary surpluses. To achieve the beastly primary surplus, it exaggerates everything and everything, it cuts the costs of the social state and public investment, withholds overdue public debts and tax refunds. It's an economic policy that doesn't make the country out of the crisis. The primary surplus is about 7 billion. EUR 700 million will then be paid back. The euro. This is not a progressive policy. This is a wrong strategy to deal with social problems, because it only achieves nothing but recycles poverty. Tax drainage. Resurrected and flexible work. Data are presented on the reduction of unemployment. We often see them in percentages. All international research shows, essentially, that we have increased both the underlying forms of work and the flexible forms of work and the wages of EUR 200 and 300. This is not a policy that can get the country out of the crisis. Of course, there is no development perspective. All this today composes the image of the Greek economy. That is why we are not giving a vote of confidence in this policy. After all, we did the same in June 2018 in the motion of distrust against the government. This government has exhausted its negotiating capital. That is why a new government needs to be progressive in order to negotiate these objectives effectively. To reduce the primary surplus, from 3.5% to 2% over the coming years. I hear the Minister of Finance as a central strategy to analyse that this primary surplus is used to serve the public debt, which is why we need 3.5%. It's a wrong strategy. Finally, we need to negotiate effectively with the partners. Public debt must be made sustainable, but in other ways and, of course, with surpluses. We are not against the surpluses. We do not want deficit budgets, but sustainable primary surpluses and not these beasts today. Together, of course, with a country's reconstruction plan, with progressive tax reform and finally a stable tax system. That is why we say that we need a new progressive policy with a stable European orientation on all issues. That is why I support the positions of the European Social Democracy, with a view to a high standard of living, with social cohesion and justice and modern social policy services in health and education and non-statement with subsidised policies for the reproduction of poverty. In the field of health and education resources must be given targeted, not with benefits that recycle poverty. The education sector is another area in which we have no confidence in the government. We have a scheduled debate this week in Parliament. In fact, it seems to me unthinkable that the Ministry of Education's bill is coming, which re-establishes tens of sections throughout the country, in every town, in every village, without any plan, with an unrealistic development, which is not what the education of our modern times needs. It's not possible. The same pathogens are recycled and the only one that is abolished is the written competition for the AACC, and all this could be combined. Even successful models combined change. As far as the crucial foreign policy issues, such as Macedonian and Cypriot, should be dealt with by everyone with responsibility and moderation, in the light of national interests, and in no case can they be managed at work. But, especially for the Prespecies Agreement, ladies and gentlemen, we will have time to develop our positions in this House when this debate takes place. What I want to stress today - and we have just seen it a moment ago - is that the increase in political climate undermines the country's prospect. Artificial polarization, division, barren conflicts - we have just seen one between Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Polakis - create an explosive mixture. Government and Civic Opposition are responsible for this politi­cal and divisive climate. Even families are involved in the arguments they use. If this situation persists, I do not think we can get out of the crisis either next year or over the next many years. Today Kammenos is gone, but the issue is the change of policies. The question is to change the policies pursued. To change this, it takes a new progressive government, which will emerge after elections. The way out of the crisis requires, above all, an awareness of the responsibility and the difficulties involved in drawing up a plan to overcome the crisis. It requires a change of policies and brave progressive areas everywhere. That is why climate change is needed here and now, because our country really has the powers to move forward at all levels. With regard to the agricultural sector, as the Minister for Rural Development is in the Chamber, we had a debate in the House last days. However, there is nothing the way we are doing today in the agricultural sector, for which we also do not vote for the government's confidence. For all these years, the EUR 19 billion, which we had taken in 2012-2013 for this seven-year period, namely European money and resources that have gone to young farmers, to investments, has changed the productive model where we have had money in these years. I'm not talking about other policy areas that we didn't have. EUR nineteen billion in the agricultural sector, while in other areas we did not have one. What happened in the agricultural sector? Do farmers see a change? They don't see her, they didn't see her. That is why I say that we need initiatives to be taken and that there are brave interventions and breakthroughs from the healthy forces of the place at all levels. That is why democratic political forces need to be consulted on a progressive programme of reforms and changes that will definitively make our country out of the crisis and make it a normal European social rule of law. Here and now, we need a policy change, a new progressive reconstruction programme for the country, with a strong centre-left and a strong progressive component that will implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u490	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u491	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in today's process we come for the vote of confidence on one occasion. The main fact, however, is the need to serve democracy and transparency of a programming governance until the end of the period, for which we have been given the mandate since September 2015, a political programme that is being implemented and submitted in September 2015. The question is whether it will continue to run this program or whether it will stop. The 2015 programme, which we tabled - it is important to mention a few things - concerned first of all the effort we were talking about at the time about the country's successful exit from the memoranda with the whole society upright and without terms and conditions, which, as we all know, has been achieved. The next was the productive reconstruction of the country with fair growth, balanced growth, regional development, with the protection of public wealth, public space and adjustment of the productive model with a shift in the knowledge economy. After the reconstruction of the state, with the correction of the injustices for more function for the citizen and efficiency in the management of public affairs, the maintenance and expansion of labour and social rights, the support and consolidation of the social state, namely health, social welfare and education, and the geopolitical upgrading of the country, and through this upgrading of its development perspective. What we have achieved in these three years, the figures, the partners themselves and, of course, the examples, are speaking. An important number is unemployment, which in these three years has fallen by almost ten points. They found a job of about three hundred thousand young workers. GDP has increased considerably. It's nearly $10 billion. The main thing, however, is that the vicious cycle of downhillness and downhill GDP has stopped. Debt has been regulated, and that is important. In principle, for the next four years through the medium term, we already have a EUR 30 billion pillow, plus access to the markets plus the paper-based surpluses which allow us to behave accordingly in the coming years. In other words, it gives us possibilities, but also choices, and of course, beyond 2022, the ten-year debt arrangement, where we will not pay for the next decade, in short, until 2032. We have something, which I consider to be an important achievement for all of us in times of genuinely difficult budgetary adjustment. It is the possibility of two and a half million uninsured citizens participating in the public health system, without any, but no condition. We have supported the first housing with a rental subsidy, we have arranged red loans through the extra-judicial mechanism, we have achieved significant favourable changes in regulation through the banks in the red loans. Of course, red loans remain an area that needs more aggressive initiative. At the same time, at the same time, the modulation of the new governance programming framework is also required, after the memoranda, and this is precisely the period when the new possibilities of the new era must be inaugurated and strengthened, so the new political alliances, which must be in a progressive, democratic and fair direction. In the new era, characterised by the end of the memoranda and the end of the downhill cycle of the economy, we already have an expansion budget for the first time by at least 1 billion. Therefore, we have introduced the reduction of taxation for 2019, the reduction of insurance contributions to hundreds of thousands of insured persons and the reduction of HISPIA significantly. We have a new housing policy, which comes in place of the Katseli Act, and this will concern the grant of rent specifically for the first residence. We have the recruitment to the public 'one to one' and that is how we spend ten thousand permanent public workers in education, and a number of other areas will follow. The part that we are interested in and really opened up the development potential is the country's own political power and position. The development model of the last decade has been based on a client state, mainly on foreign choices, in combination with some of our own elites with outdated and unsustainable production models. It was based on a predominantly enclosed state, with certain few allies and assistants, and so we were always controlled. The dominant economic policy class, formed in our country, was therefore addicted and enlightened to this distorted, incomplete and mortal economic environment, and this procedure has led our country to disaster. In short, the development model has declined, along with dependence, but also with geostrategic enclavism. We and this model have changed it, by giving our geopolitical advantages, benefits and added value to the country, through political multi-dimensional ones, under international law as a pillar of peace and stability in an unstable region. Macedonia, then, and Thrace, Northern Greece, that is, remained until recently, just a region of a national centre. Based on this model, Macedonia and Thrace could be the leader of the wider Balkan inland, precisely the Balkans are inland, it could be the engine of a new development in the Balkans, it could be done and it would become a critical parameter for a viable economy at national level. The pipelines, TAP, EastMed, IGB, hydrocarbons, transport investments establish a new, different country, which, together with international relations, the upgraded in the south-eastern Mediterranean, the Balkan plus the major new powers, Russia, China of a country that is already in NATO and the European Union, are creating enormous growth prospects, based on this active and expansionist plan, which we have been working on and working on - in the last three and a half years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this context, therefore, a dispute settlement agreement is part of the UN at all times. And I'm talking about the Prespecies Agreement. One agreement, which does two main things, which I have not heard often say: firstly, it changes the constitutional name of FYROM. Secondly, it abolishes all those articles of the Constitution, which produce altruism, at the expense of our country in particular, but also thus establish peace. There are also issues that deal with the history of Greek Macedonia and the issue of their language, which is defined as the South-Slavic language. So this peaceful perspective of the Balkans, with democracy and the rule of law, that is to say, this European perspective particularly favours our country and, above all, favours Northern Greece, because huge prospects of economic development are being opened and is now establishing northern Greece in a wider Balkan focus, from where it was a limited region of our country. That's just patriotism. Love for our country, for its development and future, with respect for others' homeland. There are still three loose ends, which this governance wants to continue. These are the constitutional review, particularly the law on the responsibility of ministers, but also the establishment of simple proportionality at all levels of public life, the settlement of State-Church relations, important institutional intervention, and the fight against corruption. These things and this political plan are a solid political basis for the new political period, which is being opened before us. She's the one who's going to free the future. And in this new era the Left has and will have a leading role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u492	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Stavros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u493	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras once again raised a theatrical performance in the last few days entitled 'All for the Residence of Power'. The Prime Minister has long written, with professional diligence, in fact, the script and directed the performance. He's a protagonist himself. In a second role, Mr Kammenos and dispersed constituencies, with defined roles, which say and do things, thus blurring the political atmosphere, reducing the credibility of the political system, undermining the confidence of the citizens in institutions and democracy and burdening the economy and its prospects. Within this political salt, the stakeholders are attempting to find a balance, from which everyone will get, bigger or smaller, without regard to the fact that what they get cumulatively in this game, will lose it over the long term. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister, who gives everything to others, is asking for everything. Members have asked for a vote of confidence in his government today. Prime Minister, I am not giving you a vote of confidence. I do not give you a vote of confidence, because you do not offer a good job in the country's course, either at national level or at economic, social or political level. Prime Minister, I do not trust you because for four years you have not promoted the necessary national dialogue, at least on the big issues of the country's strategic importance. You did not forged national consensus on a well-processed national strategy. Moving arrogantly and arrogantly, guide how you will damage your political opponents and not how you will benefit the country. Prime Minister, I do not trust you, because for four years society has been pessimistic, extinct, unsafe to monitor a government triumph, without moral principles, without ideological coordinates, with a surplus of political amoralism, to remain strung at power, having failed in all areas of the public sphere. Prime Minister, I do not trust you because you willingly proceed to national harmful agreements which no other government has accepted in the past. Prime Minister, I do not trust you because, under the responsibility of your government, the problem state is backwards over time, the quality of democracy is downgrading, the rule of law is being undermined, the distinction of powers is being threatened. Mr Tsipras' government every day sinks into disrepute and opacity by confession and officials. In the field of civil protection there is general insecurity and fear. In education there is a dominance of short-sightedness and lawlessness in university spaces. In the management of the refugee - immigration problem, ideologies and inability are expressed. Prime Minister, I do not trust you because, while you receive the economy between the ground floor and the first floor, you have to take it down with illusions and ideas in the first two years in the basement, to try to bring it back to the surface at least and you are already dealing with it, and you have irresponsiblely, not only loaded the backs of Greek citizens with many billions of euros, but you are already seducing the future course of the economy. You have booked home for many years on the strict memorandum line, on high budgetary targets and on enhanced supervision, instead of what SYRIZA's colleague said, in terms and conditions, even on debt. You are dragging the economy into a state of paralytic stagnation by overtaxing households and businesses, without growth dynamics. Keep the country out of the market, without ensuring stable, continuous, secure access to them. The normality of the country has not returned. The citizens' available income is shrinking. The competitiveness of the economy disappears. Investments are falling apart. Business is migrating. Young scientists are waving up. The Public Investment Programme shall be subordinated. Flexible forms of work dominate. Long-term unemployment prevails. The liquidity of public bodies is deteriorating. The credit shrinking continues. Private debt, i.e. citizens' debts in tax and insurance funds, is growing. Public debts are not cleared. Capital restrictions still exist. The Stock Exchange has accumulated huge losses. In conclusion, Mr Tsipras' government only consumes self-sufficient national time, capital and resources, stumbling society in a provocative way and with absolute opportunism. Prime Minister, for these reasons and not only, I do not give you a vote of confidence. After all, as you yourself have supported, the vote of confidence gives it to the people and gives it openly and clearly, through the electoral process, through the popular verdict. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in every version, the government's curtain falls. The country needs another, serious, firm, responsible, stable and with a national and European draft government. We need a patriotic liberal and social government of New Democracy, which, as always, over time, will be called upon to meet the needs of the country and the challenges of times. And it will do so, once again, with a sense of responsibility for the progress of our country, with national dignity, credibility and self-confidence, towards the partners, with the preservation of security, freedom and democracy, with the promotion of social solidarity, justice and democracy. It is time to open the door to the future and do so with responsibility, credibility, moderation, modesty and efficiency. We all have to build our homeland on modern bases and ensure its strong course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u494	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We're closing today's meeting with Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u495	Why, Mr President, do we conclude with Mr Kammenos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u496	Because we have agreed that we will close the sitting at 12 o'clock at night.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u497	Mrs Manolakou, whom I am the one to replace, is preceded by Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u498	Mrs Manolaku is registered to speak after six colleagues. Next is Mr Balafas, Mr. Germenis, Mr. Philis, Mrs. Bakoyannis, and then Mrs. Manolakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u499	There's a replacement, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u500	We don't have any replacement papers, Mr. Comrade. We have agreed that we will close at 12 o'clock in the evening and we have informed the next speakers that they will be here tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u501	But, Mr President, Mr Kammenos is after Mrs Manolakou, which I replace.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u502	Mr Kammens asked us to take the floor today, because tomorrow morning he has a job. But it has nothing to do with Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u503	Mr President, I can give Mr Moraite my seat and then speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u504	All right, Mr. Moraite. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u505	Thank you, Mr President. What we have been living for these days is a pragmatism between the co-pilots until yesterday, in a government which, in good cooperation, in four years' time, broke the people, took back conquests, removed rights, loaded on the two Memorandums of PASOK and the New Democracy a third barbaric memorandum. And we have come today to have hundreds of implementing laws, to be here and to stay for many years, to create bloody surpluses from the uprooting of the people, to break the lives of the working people's folk families, to serve the profitability of capital and monopolistic groups. That is why we say that processes in the civil system have nothing to do with it, it is far from the real needs and anguish of the people. It must be clear to the workers, the public-popular strata of the cities and the countryside that any reintegration, which the government will have after the processes, will continue with unrelenting intensity the same anti-grassroots policy, committed to the needs of capital. With the Prespecies Agreement you are complicating the country, the people, more and more deeply in the US plans in the region, with the false narrative of the country's strategic upgrading strategy, the people. No, this upgrade will be for the Greek bourgeoisie, which will fall along with the other hyenas, the other urban ranks of the region, the Americans, the Europeans, to destroy the wealth, the sweat of the peoples of the region. You are asking for a vote of confidence to continue the barbaric anti-grassroots policy in the workplace, with the work relationships of the jungle, without health and safety measures, cheap labour on the altar of profitability of business groups. You ask for a vote of confidence to continue the same anti-grassroots policy on health, which is transformed daily into merchandise, medicine, welfare, social security, education. You consider all this to be a cost. You wide open the way to private initiative. You are asking for a vote of confidence to continue the complete attack on poor and medium-sized farms, implementing the common agricultural policy, serving the major capitalist farms in the field of agricultural and livestock production. With your policy over the years in the rural economy you have been politely implementing the directions of the European Union, taking the spoon from the previous ones and continuing this policy at a faster rate, launching production costs, with expensive means and supplies, machinery, expensive current, oil, tax, carpeting in ENPI, ELGA, insurance contributions. This policy leaves no room for survival to poor farmers and farmers. On the one hand, low prices are open and, on the other hand, redemption, so that poor producers are forced to compress prices on their products to stand against the products of capitalist farms. This leads them to be lost by hand, to be forcefully displaced, to be dismantled. In order to pass this policy, you are hiding the class opponents of the poor medium-sized farmer, who are the industrialists, the big ones, and you are putting poorer farmers in the same bag with the monopoly of processing, packaging and distribution of agricultural products. You sell the tales of capitalist states and make delusion that with interprofessional and conventional agriculture it will be assumed that it will ensure an immediate payment of the effort of the small and medium-sized producer. The results live in their minds, poor farmers and farmers selling the 'bier than' product, such as milk and cotton. Promote the even greater concentration of land and production in a few hands of large capitalist farms, which are, moreover, the front of the common agricultural policy. Of course, you are propagandaing, hiding the truth from the producers. You're telling them it's not the capitalist system in which it takes the profit, its norm is that the big fish eat the little one. You are expecting that through their participation in collaborative patterns, producer groups, they will end their sufferings and in the end we have their bankruptcy and debt nipple to drown them. The final example is the Cooperative of Thessalon "Thessalonians" that has been widely advertised in the previous period and now leads to bankruptcy in the hands of the banks - big businessmen. Your target is the little ones. And we say clearly and clearly that you are a government of capital, and you and the previous ones, who literally bleed the poor and medium-sized farmer and give land and water to the monopolies. For all this, the poor and medium-sized farms must not give you a vote of confidence. This does not mean that it is deadlocked. There is a solution and it is not in today's producer groups or in the large farmers' cooperatives. The JRC says there is a way out for all people of hard work, agricultural production. There is a solution, which is genuinely of benefit to many against poverty, unemployment and dismantling. There is a road with the people in power with socialised capitalist farms on the earth, the concentrated, mechanised means of production, the state infrastructure, trade, with their direct integration into the centralized, scientific design for the organisation of the economy, for the development of the people. The JRC, with all its powers, will be on the farm block, starting in a few days' time in their struggles. It will also be in here claiming, struggling, in every way, the government in any way, so that vital requests from farmers can be met immediately and, of course, that the road opens through the process of organised struggle, constant struggle, the road to resolve the problems, based on the proposal that we have just mentioned. In front of us is the way to the people's, social, political outlet and perspective. The struggle will, of course, be difficult, it will not be easy, but the social alliance with a strong KIC is a one-way to overturn, to change the negative correlation that exists today. In other words, between exploiters and exploiters, it is a prerequisite for the economy and society to have the criterion of satisfying people's needs. A confidence vote is taken daily by your partners, the European Union, NATO, the monopolistic groups. And you get excellent. You're doing the dirty work everywhere. It's a fresh vote of confidence by Mrs. Merkel for all of your achievements. Of course, you are also indulging in the tactics of fear with the false dilemma 'if there is no stability, the measures will not go through - crumbs, the benefits of a poor house'. Now the working poor farms, the young people who are squeezing from politics, the people's family that breaks up, who live in the nightmare of auctions, have nothing good to expect. He has no reason to give you a vote of confidence. To make use of experience of what it experiences every day from the policies of all governments over time, from trade, from the stir of the anti-grass deck, from the saviors that proved to be callippis, from the anti-immemorandums that became more fanatical than the Memorandum. The people should not fall into the trap, the false dilemma of the new duplicate, right-hand. You look like a drop of water. That's why we have transcriptions, moves. The distances between you have been zeroed. The people have to make a difference. Now take the big step. Don't show any tolerance. He's got no waiting. Don't look for callippi differences, because they don't really exist. The next day will be the same and worse than the previous day. He's getting to the forefront. To make a voting criterion his own life. To give a vote of confidence to the JRC. Strengthen everywhere in all the polls that will be set up in the next period. Give strength to that political power, which stood beside him, uncircumcisedly over the years, the JRC, the genuine popular opposition, which can make a difference to its people and needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u506	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kammenos is the last speaker. And please very much, for the time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u507	Thank you very much for understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important day. The government is asking for a vote of confidence. A vote of confidence will not give the current government, for reasons which I will analyse very briefly and within my time. A vote of confidence, unfortunately, gave this government and the issue that is at stake these days for the Prespecies, the Skopje, Mrs Merkel. There is no need for a vote of confidence from the Greek Parliament, obviously. Mr Moscovisi will be here tomorrow to pay tribute to the efforts of the government and to seal the Treaty of Ambassadors as a European Union. We will also be congratulated by NATO Secretary-General and the US Government. Everyone will congratulate and give a vote of confidence to the Greek Government, which is what it is doing at the moment, without asking the Greek people, without bringing the agreement to the Greek Parliament, as it should have been, destroys all democratic rights of Greek citizens for full information on a major national issue. He went through the agreement, signed it, without informing and without even taking the vote, to proceed with this signature. Many colleagues have spoken. I've heard the political leaders too. My point tonight is to show a way in which Parliament, as a State, as a favoured state, should be able to act in order to abolish the specific Ambassadors' agreement. The way that exists at the moment, in my humble opinion, is this: there has been a charge by Mr Panos Kammenos on the Ministerial Council that EUR 50 million has been moved by Mr Soros, through Mr Kotzias, to be given to the Skopje, through negotiation on a major national issue, if it has not been denied, has been confirmed by Mr Kotzias himself on the channel, Mrs Stai. I read: "What was said is and was said in an interview in the next few days, that Soros gave 50 million to buy people in Skopje to do our political jobs. It is clear that this argument is intended, firstly, to intimidate the fact that some may blackmail. But I don't know. I've never gotten anything from anyone. You know I come from a very rich family, and I disfellowshipped my fortune. And to scare FYROM. Three things have been said. Mr. Soros gave 50 million. Let them prove it that Soros gave 50 million. There's gotta be a flow somewhere. I don't know how." This interview is at 6-11-2009 in Mrs. Stay. On 23-10-2018 Mr Kotzias in his television appearance to Mr. Sahini explains that Mr. Soros - charges Mr. Kammenos - finances the Greek Government to buy out foreigners and raise these issues: "These are heavy issues. But it's not heavy for Nikos Kotzias alone. Is that the point? No one answered but me. None?’ Does the reporter ask? "Nobody except me. Wasn't a Minister found to say: are you hurting me too? No. No.' Journalist: “Not even the Prime Minister? Neither the Prime Minister.’ I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This conversation should go to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, the two ministers and those who participated in the Ministerial Council, because if Mr Kammenos's accusation is correct, then we are talking about national treason. We're talking life imprisonment. The Code is clear. When a person is money-laundered and negotiates in the interests of his country and does not do as it should, in order to defend his country's interests and transfer money for other purposes, it harms the country's interests and must be investigated as such. With a petition we can make insurance measures to stop and abolish this agreement, so that we do not go any further and take it from a zero base. Nowadays, we also live Mr. Kammenos's televit with Mr. Tsipras. I have referred to 16 June - in my speech - after my deletion for the same reasons that I did not send Mr Kotzias to sign the press. I'm deleted. No one is erased today. Mr Kammenos told the parliamentary group that he has agreed with Mr Tsipras, thirty days before the agreement came to the Greek Parliament will put the government in full consultation. This is a witness to the entire parliamentary group, representatives of the youth and the Political Secretariat of the Independent Greeks. I mean, Mr. Mitsotakis and the other Chiefs don't have to look a lot. It has been said by Mr. Kammenos. This whole triumph has been set up. At the same time, we see this: this agreement cannot be circumvented. We are listening to these days of intervention by the Russians, intervention by the Americans for a National Security Council. I read from the agreement, which in the last two articles says that the name North Macedonia, the nationality of Macedonians, the Macedonian language cannot change after ratification by Greece, ever for any reason and forever. It is provided for in Article 20(9) which states itself: ‘The provisions of this Agreement shall remain in force for an indefinite period and shall be irreversible. No amendment to this Agreement, contained in Articles 1(3) and 1(4), shall be permitted.’; In addition, there is no question of a Security Council. It says in Article 20(10) next: ‘This Agreement shall be registered with the United Nations Secretariat pursuant to Article 102 of the United Nations Charter as soon as it enters into force’. So there is no question of collecting veto to the National Security Council. Mr. Kotzias and Mr. Tsipras, with Mr. Kammenos's synergy, have tied us to hand. Article 20, paragraph 9. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Next issue, which we need to discuss right now, is the political assessment of civilian personnel. It is not possible to vote for a parliamentarian from a democratic process, such as elections, in a favoured country such as Greece and to vote for a major issue, where the history of three thousand years is assigned, the name "Macedonia" along with language and identity. We already have claims of a national Macedonian minority in Northern Greece, a Macedonian language that does not exist. I understand all that. It's their right. It is not provided for in the Convention. It is not possible, however, for Greek Members to have voted through conferences, democratically elected by the Greek citizen and to vote contrary to the reason why they have been elected. The task has been extinguished, any democratic sensitivity has disappeared. This country must not be governed by either retaliatory politicians or politicians' prerogatives and be a government - consortium. It is a pity for the Hellenic Republic to create in these ways. And I ask: are these six who probably tomorrow give - as the beans count - the vote of confidence if we watch them from tomorrow night to the elections, whenever the Prime Minister wants to do so, will they vote and will they continue to support the government? Is there any chance that one of the six will vote negatively in a bill? If one of the six votes negatively in a bill, from tomorrow to the election, then there's a fraud in tomorrow's vote. What is the vote of confidence for tomorrow in the government? She does, because there are exchanges. I hope I do not see any ministers, state secretaries or people in other positions, who will exchange power and chair with the vote on Macedonia. It's gonna be a big pity! I said that Mr. Kammenos has the full responsibility at the moment, tonight, and I call him tomorrow, in his speech, to bring the papers and to prove that Mr. Kotzias took 50 million from Mr. Soros to throw the government away. This must do, throw the government down, cancel the deal and start again from scratch, without "Macedonia" and save our history. I'm closing up with something I'm going to testify to in the Minutes. It's Mr. Sotiris Valdenn's speech. Mr Sotiris Valdeen - to inform the two colleagues who are here and the Minister for Foreign Affairs - is being foreclosed for a new Minister for Foreign Affairs. This new Foreign Minister says that "the objections to language and ethnicity are absolutely unfounded, as neither Macedonian nor Macedonian national have us, to claim it" - that the day before yesterday in Megaron - "and, of course, denying the right to self-determination in these matters would be tantamount to asking for self-determination of a state". I mean, we'll give them the right to define themselves as they want. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end as I promised you. And it continues: "On the contrary, the rename of Macedonian language and Macedonian nation is not part of the negotiation process. Greece does not claim a Macedonian language or a Macedonian nation. He expressly claims the monopoly of Macedonia in Greece.' I'm filing it in the Minutes. It is what the young man thinks, as I read, Minister for Foreign Affairs, who will take over after Mr Kotzias. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Dear Mr. Zourari, I received this: "Macedonia crippled", Zouraris Konstantinos, H' Vice President of the Parliament. I found it, but I won't let go, because I didn't read it. I'll take a photo and leave it in the Minutes tomorrow. You all have it. Mr Zurari, will you give a vote of confidence tomorrow and leave us today a brochure entitled "Macedonia crippled"? Shame on you! Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u508	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Prime Minister's proposal for a vote of Parliament's confidence in the government was completed on the first day. Tomorrow the first three colleagues to speak are Mr Balafas, Mr Germenis and Mr Philis. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-15-S1-commons.u509	With the consent of the House at 0.12' the sitting is closed for Wednesday, January 16, 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: a continuation of the debate and a vote on the Prime Minister's proposal for a vote of confidence in the government, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 141 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
