ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I wish you a good month. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday, 4 February 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 307/28-1-2019 by MP Trikala of New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Skrekas to the Minister of Finance on the subject: ‘Healthy hotel businesses are at risk of being charged with “built” VAT. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 299/28-1-2019 topical question by MP Serres of Democratic Incorporation, Mr Michael Jellée, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Increased infractions in Serres Law and the Serres Police Department has been subordinated." 3. The Question No 312/29-1-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, concerning the "impact on the operation of services and working conditions in services of the "Venezel Hospital" from the fire in the former buildings of the University of Crete on 23 September. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 313/29-1-2019 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, on "Very serious problems at the General Hospital of Samos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 314/29-1-2019 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, on "Problems in the functioning of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) Amphichia". 3. The 283/21-1-2019 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Republican Association Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the Supreme Court by demanding the lenders of fifty of the public buildings in the Municipality of Pyrgos". 4. The 281/21-1-2019 topical question by Independent MEP II Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Environmental cooperatives". 5. The Question No 262/9-1-2019 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Emergent need to increase the military service". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 3143/281/7-11-2018 question and application for documents from the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazidis to the Minister of Health concerning "the operation of the Ophthalmological Clinical Clinic of the General Hospital of Drama". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 3876/29-11-2018 question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Health about the "return of sums retained in connection with the availability of ninety-seven hospital workers in Thessaloniki". 3. The question by number 2932/31-10-2018 question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The release of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium "Vision 2nd High School" of Saint Varvaras from the Supreme Court."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin the debate on the three questions which will be answered today, I would like to inform you of the following: The third, with number 290/22-1-2019, a top-circuit question (B) by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the "Capetagnific" building in Heraklion Crete, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The second question under number 294/22-1-2019 of the First Cycle (A) of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Undocumentary blockade by the claiming of posts of laboratory directors and clinics", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, due to a workload. The first, with number 306/28-1-2019, a topical question from the Member of Parliament, Kastoria, New Democracy, Maria Antonios, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Examination of student transfer objections", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, due to a workload. The second, with number 285/21-1-2019, timely first cycle question (B) by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios State to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Transfer of membership from the Medical School of the Democrat University of Thrace to the newly established University of Western Attica", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, due to a workload. The second question under number 291/22-1-2019 by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the "transfer of students from the Music and Art Schools" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, due to a workload. The second question with number 2854/29-10-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about "the transfer of a membership from the Medical School of the Democrat University of Thrace to the newly established University of Western Attica", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, due to a workload. The third, with number 591/29-11-2018, reference to the cycle of petitions and questions (B) by MP Rhodope of the Democratic Comparison, Mr Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The programme of the Muslim priesthoods of Thrace", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, due to a workload. The second question, under number 300/28-1-2019, by MP Serres of Democratic Incorporation, Mr Michael Jelelis, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The state of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ) will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr.Asterios Pitsirla, because of a government mission internally. The first question under number 4556/21-12-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions (A) by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Compromise Mr.Kosos Kegeroglou to the Minister of State and Government, on the subject: "It continues to insist on the unacceptable exemption from Crete from Transport Equivalent", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of State and Government, Mr. Dimitrios Janakopoulos, due to the fact that he will be in Heraklion Crete. The sixth Question No 279/15-1-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration Mr.Kosos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the Transport Equivalent", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Nektarios Santoriniou, due to the fact that the same question as the Member himself has been discussed before. Now, of course, I first see such a reasoning. The first question under number 4253/12-12-2018 question of the cycle of petitions and questions (B) by MP Argolida of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Giolas to the Minister for Environment and Energy, on "the air pollution in the Nafplion by a firework on the coast of Nea Kyos in the mine of the Argolian Gulf", will not be discussed due to the fact that the MP was satisfied with the written answer. The third under No. 309/28-1-2019 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks Mr. Aristides Fokas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Social Structures of the Municipalities", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of the Interior Mr.Alexandros Haritsis, due to a workload. The third, with number 269/14-1-2019, topical question (B) by MP I Piraeus, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is proclaiming selective fragmentation of municipalities with micro-participatory criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of the Interior, Alexandros Haritsis, due to a workload. The fourth question under number 265/11-1-2019 of the MP Arcadias of Democratic Integration Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "At what stage is the project to attract visitors to Lake Ladona, amounting to EUR 1,89.618?", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of the Interior, Alexandros Haritsis, due to a workload. The fifth, under No. 270-14-1-2019, topical question by the Member of the Lesbos, Mr. Charalambos Athanasiou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Diffusion of the Municipality of Lesbos", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Alexander Haritsis, because of a workload. For all these reasons, there is also the letter from the Secretary of Government, Mr Crytta Kaidaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u3	Mr. President, may I? I want to say a few words about the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u4	What do you want, Mr. Kegeroglu? Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, it is a long-standing phenomenon that the ministers will not be able to answer Members' questions under parliamentary scrutiny. However, it has begun and taken dangerous proportions of parliament, and what you have read, namely the reasons for not coming, is that I am emphasising this nature of alleged obstacles. Mr Janakopoulos cannot be required to be here today to answer my question, to be at a party event in Heraklion and to declare a workload! Mr Santorinios, the Minister responsible for shipping, cannot say that a similar matter has been discussed before. All these are phenomena which are at the expense of parliamentary control and, more generally, Parliament's functioning. Apart from the fact that I would like to ask you again on your own initiative as Vice-President - because I have put it to the President many times in the next Conference of Presidents - I would like to say that the subject of both questions - concerning the exception without justification, the unconstitutional exception of Crete from 1-1-2019 from the Transport Equivalent - is a very serious issue to deal with this attitude on the part of the Government. I am also obliged to denounce it politically and parliamentaryly and with all the tons. Unfortunately, it is Parliament's depreciation and, of course, the direct negative attitude towards Crete and Cretans, which, from 1 January 2019, lose every month to 15 million, of the higher transport costs that are borne. Thank you for giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u6	First of all, Mr Kegeroglou, the official statement - because I have to say it - for Mr Janakopoulos is a 'government mission in Heraklion, Crete'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u7	It's a party event.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u8	Yeah, I'm just saying the official reasoning. I have to say it. For Mr Santorinio and I, for so many years I have been here, I do not agree. Because it may have been answered, but something new may have emerged on the same subject. That is not a reason why the question should not be answered. Of course, you are a member of the Conference of Presidents. You're right. And you've put it on, we've all put that on. The President - not to blame him - is trying to settle the situation. Today I have measured that three topical questions will be discussed and no twenty-six will be discussed for several reasons. Okay. Before we move to the debate on the first topical question today, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade and the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Repeal of the Act of Legislative Content of 31 December 2018 ‘Extension of the possibility of exempting primary residence from liquidation pursuant to Law 3869/2010 (A 130), extension of reduced VAT rates to the islands of Leros, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios and extension of the measure of “Transport Equivalent” by Law 4551/2018’’. We move on to the debate of the first under No 286/21-1-2019 topical question of second cycle (B) of Athens, Nea Ana - Michelle Asmakopoulou, to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the financial situation of Greek Posts. The Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information will answer Mr. Nikolaos Pappas. Here, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning and good month, Minister. Once again, we have discussed the ELTA issue, once on the recruitment of "ELTA COURIER" - by the way, and today I read some reports on new scandals, but we will not discuss this today - and once again on PPC and on the retention of the money that has to be paid from the accounts, but this is not the subject of today's question. After all, I find out that you are preparing a communal picture of the things you are used to, to celebrate the obvious, that is, that you will start paying PPC's bills with the money of the world, even trust the ELTAs again. In any case today, Minister, we are here because, on the basis of reports and press releases from the workers, during their recent strike, we hear that the ELTAs are in such a bad financial situation that they are barely in the process of being elected - whenever they do - can stand up and meet their obligations. So I will begin - with little tolerance from you, Mr President, and thank you for that - with ten very specific questions. I would like to prejudge you, Minister, that there are some answers from the institutional meetings that I have done with the post offices - where I have left a gap next to me - and I shall discuss with very specific figures, to speak with arguments rather than with communication krone on this issue, which is extremely important. Well, I'm on my way. Firstly, what are the cumulative losses of the ELTAs to date? The number, please. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue entered in Item 6 0 3 1 of the statement of revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with The number, please. Third, what are the EBITDA adjustments for 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021? Also, the number, please. Fourthly, what do you estimate the cash deficit from 2019 to 2021? Fifth, what is the debt of the ELTAs to EVCA from insurance contributions? Sixth, what is the debt of ELTAs to the Deposit and Loan Fund from the loan received by the Hellenic Post Office? Seventh, what is the debt to other entities on whose behalf money is collected? And I told you I'm not talking about PPC, we've discussed this. I am referring to the yield to banking institutions from the loans received from Eurobank - which, if I am not imprisoned, have been granted to Irish funds - and have been retained by their wages and have to be attributed to these banking institutions, namely the Irish funds for the reimbursement of loan instalments. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Eighth - which is particularly important, and I say this very consciously and sensitively - for the GIRO account. This is the account, as you know, through which the pensions of the insurance funds are paid, but also the allowances. Has there been any checks to check if there's a deficit there? And if so, what is that? And two questions which can be answered 'yes' or 'no' rather than so much'. One is on the subject of universal service. I do not summarise what has already been done, but we do not disagree with the evidence. The question is whether you intend to submit a request to the European Competition Committee, with regard to the EUR 82.9 million for the period 2013-2015 that has not been requested. Yes or no? And I come to the last question. Is there any viability plan for ELTAs? Who's working on it? Does this include closure of stores and redundancies of workers? Yes or no? Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u10	The Minister has the floor, with his tolerance. And because I burn down the missing ministers, I say good words, at least when I presiding. Mr. Pappas is present, as is Mr. Vits. Mr. Diaras is the first time I've had. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u11	And when I'm invited to answer, he's always Mr. Kaklamanis in the Chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u12	Yeah, well, when I'm here, I haven't seen you come. I don't know what you're doing to other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. The history of ELTAs is a story, as I have repeatedly said, of an orderly abandonment of a very critical public infrastructure. And that didn't happen by accident. I think it was at the core of the political choices of previous governments. The ELTAs were awarded EUR 400 million in 1998, supposedly to be reconstructed. Nothing happened to adapt them to new technological developments. Countless money was spent to buy machinery that facilitated the distribution of letters, which, of course, were fatally overcome by technological developments. The turnover on the postal market for letters has fallen by 60% in recent years. I'm coming to the universal service compensation. No universal service compensation from previous governments. A request was made in 2014 by the Ministry of Infrastructure, which was then also responsible for the purchase of postal and postal services. Of course, the request was rejected by the General Accounting Office of the State, because it is well explained by the General Accounting Office of the State that there is no legal framework in place to allow for the payment of universal service compensation to ELTAs. Has the legislative initiative been taken to treat this deficit? It wasn't taken. So nothing in the clay, toward the ELTAs from the state for the universal service. The ELTAs also lost a very important asset: their participation in the Post Bank by breaking the bank into good and bad. We are talking about an asset of EUR 200 million. What did we do? We have brought the relevant amendment, we have already paid the compensation for the years 2013 to 2016 and the following days it is also paid for the year 2017. So we're talking about 75 million euros. At the same time, the National Telecommunications and Post Committee is conducting a study on the modernisation of the Agency and its adaptation to the needs of the citizens. In April 2017, the Universal Service Convention was signed by our Ministry and the ELTA for a period of six years. And of course, we have also taken the necessary steps, we are just before the completion of a joint ministerial decision with the Ministry of Finance to determine the cost-sharing of the universal service, the so-called 'compensation fund', where all the participants in the postal sector and the postal market participate in the cost and divide the cost of covering the universal service. Finally, we have made efforts, which have so far been made because the ELTAs had demands from other public bodies, which amounted to some tens of millions. They have received EUR 45 million so far and I think the rest is around 25 million. Mrs Asmakopoulou in her first place put some questions which were not in the text of the timely question. If there were any in the text of the timely question, I could have referred it to the relevant authorities and, of course, also to the agencies and give me the appropriate answers. The ELTAs are now in the Participation Fund. The Treasury appointed command in August that passed us. The Ministry of Digital Policy is responsible for the regulatory and legislative issues of the postal market, not for the operation of the company anymore. That is what I think should be clear about the dialogue between us. Of course, if we have the questions in time, we can answer them within our competence. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u14	Here, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think after almost four years of governance we should have exhausted the debate on the past. Obviously, this has not happened. I do not intend to respond in detail to what you have said. There are only two of them. The liberalisation of the postal market, as you know, took place with Law 4053/2012. Since the provision of universal service is extremely important for ensuring social cohesion, that is to say, that they can get letters to the remote villages when this is not economically advantageous, I inform you - and I think you know that - that the New Democracy since October 2014 had guaranteed the approval of the European Commission for the compensation of EUR 15 million annually. And he had secured this for 2013 and for 2014, but also for the 2015 budget on the basis of cost studies. The authorisation was published in October 2014. That would have gone ahead, but what do we do? You dropped the government with the election of the President of the Republic. So that's about the story of the thing. All you have done, except for disbursing the money around Christmas, a few days before Christmas, is to bring another amendment, by which the procedure so far for verifying the amount first and then for paying it. And this to keep the ELTAs in the respirator. I fully understand what the institutional framework is in relation to ELTAs, Minister. But you have the supervision of the ELTAs. This means that you should also be interested in financial data. And because you abdicate me that I was not specific to the questions I asked, I read you the text of the timely question, which includes exactly what I have just asked you, and indeed includes some of the sums that you could or could have verified or been denied. Specifically - and I now read the text of my question, Mr Minister - 'According to reports by the Hellenic Post is in a bad economic position'. That's what I want you to verify. That's what I came here to ask you today. ‘In particular, it is due to the Deposit and Loan Fund of EUR 115 million from a loan. They have a debt to the ECA, that is, they owe insurance contributions, 20 million euros. They have a debt to PPC of EUR 20 million. They have a debt to other entities on whose behalf they collect EUR 15 million, such as the reimbursement of the money retained by workers, to pay their loans." I read the question, Minister: 'According to the same reports on the current GIRO account' - I have told you, I am very sensitive, because he includes pensions and pensions for pensioners - 'through whom they are paid, this sum is EUR 80 million', which they say you have used at the moment. Haven't you done any control over this? Shouldn't anyone with ELTA's supervision be wondering if the money the world pays for PPC, if the money that the world has trusted there for its pensions and benefits is being used by ELTA for other reasons, so that he can stay alive while you are in power? You don't give me any specific answers on any matter. But you have your dentistry if you want to make up for it. That's why we came here today to talk with evidence. And if you want to answer with evidence, answer that too. You can't find any money for the ELTAs so you can work it out the way you should. But it seems, Minister, that you will find money - because that is how I hear - to make a special edition of a stamp to celebrate the Prespecies Agreement, for this agreement which, as the Prime Minister said recently abroad, is the vast majority of Greeks who can disagree with your viewpoint and not like this stamp. And it seems to me that you have money for that, because I have a decision you have published very recently, a decision on a mandate - to be specific, and I am closing down, Mr President, and thank you - of the Secretary-General and the Secretary-General for Information and Communication, where you gave the newspapers half a million to advertise the Ambassadors' agreement. There's money for all this! Postal money is there and you're dealing with this thing, which is in your portfolio? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u17	I think that Parliamentary Control should be used to avoid having a deaf dialogue and, when we answer something, not pretending that we did not hear it. I have explained how much money has been given to ELTAs and to the universal service, for which you have done absolutely nothing. Do not come here and say that you had made a decision by 15 million and you would ask the European Union. By 15 million there is no need for a question. From the 15 million or more you have to ask whether it falls within the limits of State aid. I also told you that we received debts from other public bodies. There, too, you had done nothing. But here let me tell you that there is a fundamental difference, ideological and political. You think this critical network - that is what your practice and your policy have shown - does not need to be supported. And because you said more and referred to the Prespecies Agreement, did we not have to do that? Should the Ambassadors' Agreement not be registered in the Sunday press? Here you were talking about the greatest betrayal that has been done and you said three-dimensional lies to the Greek people about what was happening. The Prespecies' Agreement therefore also established the permanent position of Greek foreign policy, which the New Democracy may have moved and no longer loves, with the complex name by geographical definition, with constitutional changes,...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u18	Minister, we do not now have a debate on the Prespecies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, allow me a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u20	I allow you, but don't open a matter now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u21	I accept your intervention. I close my intervention, saying it was the first time that the Prespecies Agreement made the neighbors admit that they had nothing to do with ancient Greek history, with Aristotle and Alexander the Great. This was not understood by the New Democracy or rather did not communicate with the people who listen to it. For these reasons, I will be tabling the relevant response, which was addressed to us by the ELTAs. The answer says that the account held by the ELTAs in the Deposit Fund is normally and without a problem. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, Minister Nikolaos Papapas presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In relation to the debts to PPC, you did well and you do not ask. We had discussed, and I told you it was over. If I remember correctly, it was June or July last year and we had discussed it. Yesterday we also had a statement from the President of PPC, who says that the problem of understanding between the two companies has been solved. With regard to the GIRO account, I tell you what the Ministry of Finance has told us. The institutional framework is being respected and, finally, the ECA and so on, it says, are in discussions to settle the debts between them. Our government has inherited, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, contradictions and distorting attitudes in relation to the postal market. The previous government knew that there was a process of market liberalisation. The ELTAs have not been prepared, the legislative framework has not been prepared and, of course, we now also have the assessment of the universal service, for which I also submit in the minutes a document from the National Committee on Telecommunications and Posts, with estimates exceeding EUR 15 000 000. [[At this point, the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr Nikolaos Pappas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So you will also have the opportunity to look at them and any other details, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, in relation to the financial situation of the company and to learn about them. I would like to end by saying this: the Government has the principle of supporting public infrastructure, critical infrastructure such as ELTA. I would like to assure you, Mr Asimakopoulou, that the speeches and the government will not allow, on the grounds of reconstruction, plans which may have been put into practice by governments in their minds, involving the closure of tens or hundreds of ELTA stores, or too many redundancies of workers or a cutting-up plan for this very critical infrastructure. In this sense, in conclusion, I would like to welcome your question, which I think has helped both the government and the opposition to understand where each of us stands and what our intentions are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u22	We move on to the debate on the first under number 305/28-1-2019 in the first cycle (A) by the Member of the Republic of Attica, Mr Athanasios Bourras, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Preservation of Municipal Units of Megalo and Oinoi". In this timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Diaras. Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I come before entering the Hall from the Megarras where today they have a very large local festival of the Holy Four Witnesses. Leaving, the Great knew I was coming here in order to express their anxiety, but also their plea for a major issue that keeps them in agony. And I explain: I am referring both to the area of Oinoe, the tortured and afflicted Mandras, but above all to the area of the Megaras, which I must tell you is, if not the largest, but one of the largest municipalities in the country, which offers through the primary sector significant to the national economy. These people in their vast majority are dealing with this primary sector and fueling not only Attica but also the Hellene with their exceptional vegetable products, the derivatives of poultry farming - you know that - of livestock farming, fisheries. These people were in fact found beforehand - and I am explaining - when the Greek register was decided, which I tabled in the Minutes on 5 December - and you understand what it meant to mean by December 5 - it called on them since 10 December - I do not know if it is time for this decision to go to that time - to apply for a three-month, that is, until 10 March, and we are now on 1 February - and I must say a good month. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have also been informed immediately by the local press and the local sites, which have sincerely expressed their anxiety and made it clear that it is impossible to carry out this realisation, as the holiday season did. In fact, for the Minutes and last year, a new publication of the approved newspaper in the area "PRODUCTION OF AUTHORITY". [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I asked the question the first, in writing, to which I did not receive an answer, dated 12-12-2018. It is the protocol number 4264 and I am tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents the question referred for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Living daily and visiting the area almost every day all people asked me. And since over 50 days have elapsed, as early as 12 December, I had to come back and the only instrument that I had was the timely question, and that is why I am asking you this timely question, which I warmly ask you - I have not come to speak against, to God, I have come to ask for a very big problem - to solve it. I believe in your practical thinking, in your understanding, I know you, you are also an engineer, and I must tell you that it is impossible for these people to make any progress and that so far few applications have been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Bourra, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u25	It's a big deal, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u26	And that's why I gave you twice as much time. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u27	I'll come back to my dentistry. I would just like to point out that I would ask you, Minister, for an extension until September, but it was given until December. You have received a letter from the municipality, and my proposal is that you should at least give it until next December, because, as I will tell you in my dentistry, it is impossible to make this realisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you have the floor with relative tolerance too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u29	Mr Bourras, I would like to thank you, first of all, for asking this timely question, because we have been given an opportunity today to talk about the Greek register, which concerns not only the area of Megaron and Oinois, but the whole of Greece. You know, the national register is one of the most important reform projects in modern Greek history. Today, "KITIMA 16" is taking place almost throughout Greece, that is, until 2015, we had about 19.4% in the percentage of rights, that is, 6.4% of the country. Why? Because they only proceeded with the realisation of the large urban centers, since there were no forest maps. Nowadays, as the forest maps proceeded, the Land register is progressing throughout the country and with "KITIMA 16" and if you've seen the map, these blue areas are in real estate, and it's not just the Megaron area. I understand the concern that people have and your concern to serve the citizens of your region and your voters. I tell you that we have the same concern. I too, in fact, because I know this place, I tell you that, in accordance with the provisions of Law 2308/1995, the deadline for submission of declarations is three months for residents of the interior and six months for residents of the Greek state and has the possibility of extending up to three months by decision of the Greek Stock Exchange. Therefore, there is the possibility of the law for three months. The acquisition of each area shall be carried out under a public contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u30	More than three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u31	For three more months. This Convention shall be subject to a specific timetable and budget. The unreasonable extension of implementation by the contractor of the works contract is liable to the economic object of the contract and is obviously contrary to the budgetary policy rules, since the contract is financed by national resources. In the Municipality of Megarion and the Community of Oinoi the collection of statements began on 10-12-2018 and expired on 12-3-2019, as you said, for residents of the interior and in three more months for residents abroad. The Greek Register is closely monitored on a daily basis by developments in the process of submitting declarations. Therefore, don't think that we don't care about the region, because something similar happens in all of Greece. However, the attendance of the rightholders in the office has been constantly increasing lately, especially on the 12-hour weekends, from eight in the morning to eight in the evening. Any extension of a period of time at this time, while the two-month period has not yet elapsed, in principle, of three months, is not substantiated by the available data and, at the same time, there is a risk that the increasing attendance will be suspended. However, I would like to tell you that the Greek register will exhaust all possibilities of extending the deadlines for submission of declarations, as laid down by the law, but since there is a real need and evidence of this need. Thank you again, Mr Bourrai, for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory for forty students and students and three educational attendants from the General School of Kalambaki Drama. Our dear children, I would like to inform you, because you see this room empty, that today is a day of parliamentary scrutiny. What does that mean? It means that the MPs of the Opposition, as well as of co-population, are asking questions about issues of interest to the relevant ministers. So in the Chamber is the Member who asks and the minister who answers. That is why you only see the Chamber with the honourable Members and the Foreign Ministers. With this clarification we welcome you from your beautiful city, Drama, in the Greek Parliament and wish you a good weekend in Athens. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u33	Minister, I will try to answer your arguments. I have to say to you - I do not know if you understood - that for the people who work in the primary sector and because of the holidays a period has passed completely dead. I must tell you, moreover, that there is a large number of supporting documents, which must be gathered and you know them. I say, for example, in order to issue today's application from the Court of First Instance - today - a certificate of non-separate inheritance will take more than two months. I don't know if you understand. I'm going to give another example. The same applies, except for the Court of First Instance, to the Court of Justice of the Grands. If you come or send someone to see what happens on the steps of the Municipality of Megarion, you will find that the world is in line in order to get this multitude of supporting documents, which have been well or badly established. And here I am opening a parable to say that you have the possibility of a law, if you see that it's not working properly, because you told me that the quarter is planned to correct it. But the quarter passes before the world is informed. And I've given you typical dates. They go to the city to get a certificate of closest relatives. Do you know how much he wants? It takes a month and a half to two months, because it's a lot of people. Everyone's gone now, 'cause the holidays are going through. So I want you to see it differently. There is also the possibility of amending the law you say for the quarter - you have both the knife and the melon - and there are also the costs which are unbearable, Mr Minister - and you know it - at a time of crisis and at a very difficult time, because we are also in winter. Requests? Ask, from zero to minimum they have been submitted, except for some who did. Over 90% are no longer able to file supporting documents. Extension and extension are required by law, Minister. And you're practical, you're an engineer. This is an important fact. And let me tell you another thing: by this law, you can also improve bureaucracy, because I will tell you one, two examples. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What is needed by non-renunciation when one has declared his E9 fortune and is also paying HISBIA? So what does he need to get a certificate of dismissal that I told you before that he wants at least two months to get it out of the courtroom? Will someone go to claim while he's renounced property? It's just things. You mentioned - and I don't remember - the original law, which is many years ago. All things go ahead and modernize. I too think that these are also the findings that you are aware of and are aware of the matter you must change your legislative initiative how to submit applications and how to do so, but also how to keep up with the bureaucracy that is being maintained. However, Minister, I must convey your anxiety and your request. Nothing's going on, nothing's going to happen in a month. I think you should, if you want to take these quarters - they do not solve the problem - that you go ahead with legislative intervention, as is also formally requested by the municipal authority of the city of the village, so that people, who are unable to afford themselves, are able, because you know - once again, I call on you as an engineer - what the costs are needed to obtain certificates, to make plans, so that engineers can get paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u34	Finish it, Mr. Bourra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u35	And for the last time I put the request - following the fact that I did not get an answer to the written question - at least on time to be specific and that people understand that they may be given the extension needed to complete their obligation. They are not asking for money, they are asking for a procedural issue to be resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u36	Please finish, Mr. Bourra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u37	All right, Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u38	So I understand - and the Minister will tell me if I understand correctly - that the Minister has committed himself to having the possibility, if the first quarter does not arrive, to giving an extension of three more months. Is that so, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u39	That is the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u40	All right, so it can be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u41	Since, in fact, there is a need. And these extensions, of course, are not a reason for the Greeks to keep going and go last minute, because we know that this is a Greek phenomenon. However, we must also say that the many extensions do not help us once to finish the 'Business register' case and we also have a Memorandum of Understanding to end the register in 2021. I understand very much the issues you have raised and understand and take account of the proposals. After all, as you said, I know these issues very well. So many years of mechanics I've been transcriptions in a mortgage. I know that now, with the consolidation of mortgages and registers, the 'Business register' will simplify the procedures, because the citizen will only have one authority to go to. It is therefore of great value for the citizens to go ahead as well. But with many and large extensions, we come out of schedules. However, as you said, at the end of the day, if such great needs are identified, we can also amend the law on these issues. However, you should know that the same concern you and I have it personally, because I knew the matter very well, but the government has it. Therefore, these issues will not allow them to go that way. We're watching them. In the other regions there are even more difficulties than in the Megaron regions. I wanted to inform the Greek citizens today that, in many areas now in the country, realisation is taking place. And that's what we need to take care of. There's gonna be a campaign. There was going to be an update. A competition that was, unfortunately, a bourgeoisie. We will find other solutions and quickly inform the citizens. However, people should know that if within the deadlines they do not submit the declarations on their rights, then the procedures are very difficult. They have seven years to follow, but by court procedures that are also expensive, but in addition, there is a little risk. The Greek citizens must therefore learn today and from me and from this intervention that they must in any case within the deadlines, whether in the first quarter or when there are extensions for a further quarter, to submit the declarations of rights, because otherwise the procedures can be difficult, even after seven years, if they do not say so by means of difficult procedures - that is to say, after the time-limits that we are discussing - to the Greek public and there is no way to return. I would like to point out this, so that the Greek citizens can hear it. We're watching. There are difficulties. There are no titles in too many areas, especially in rural areas. For each of these cases we have, there are issues that are resolved, i.e. if they have been stated in the E9, what other securities items are available, etc. We'll all watch them, but the register needs to end in 2021. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u42	Good. Well, you should know, Minister, that Mr. Buras is persistent. At the end of February he'll be coming with another timely one, because he'll be watching.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u43	Sure, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers of Administrative Reconstruction, Digital Communications and Information Policy, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, submitted on 31-1-2019 a draft law: ‘Integration into Greek legislation: (a) Directive (EU) 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on accessibility of websites and applications for portable devices from public sector bodies and (b) Article 1 of Council Directive (EU) 2017/2455 of 5 December 2017’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We come to the end with the debate of the first under No 293/22-1-2019 topical question from Samos, MP Samos, Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis, Minister for Migration Policy, on "Direct and Urgent Actions for the Decongestion of the Samos Reception and Identification Centre and Management of the Protracted Crisis". Here, Mr Sevastakis, you have the floor, with the same tolerance as you and the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much. I do not know whether parliamentary formality includes or may include emotional tension. I ask this question under a very great emotional pressure, because I recognize the collective sense of my country, Samos. For an eight-month period about, there is a very large number of refugees and immigrants in the reception centre. The reception centre has about eight hundred people as a limit. The numbers are up or about four and a half thousand, corresponding to a city of seven thousand inhabitants. That means I have a new town, an informal city. I have made several parliamentary interventions on the same subject. Unfortunately, it has variations. There are periods of tension and crisis, such as in 2015, periods of recession, as in 2017, and this year about April 2018 to this day I have a huge number. The removals, removals and evidence of susceptibility are not sufficient, the inflows are equivalent to removals. Therefore, I have the experience of the citizen compressing, which compresses his daily life, which compresses the functionality of the city. So this is what the crusher does neither help the guests nor the local, the native, the resident, the citizen. That's the problem in his initial description. In my denture, I'm going to develop the next features. I would like to stress that the analysis of the problem has been made by both Greek MEPs and the President of the Republic and at all levels of government. We need to focus clearly on the following question: What are the immediate actions that are being taken and in what timetable and how will Samos become decongested without further delays?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u46	The Member, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis, Deputy of the New Democracy Serres, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u47	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Let me also use the time of my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u49	You'll have tolerance to protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u50	First of all, Mr President, I would like to condemn the recent attack by Fotis Mantzoros, a teacher and a representative of the Samos Association of Teachers and Preschoolers, from a few - who do not express the minds and feelings of the Samian people - and to make this clear: Everywhere there are a few people who say nothing very much. However, when we talk to children, we are only talking about rights and our obligations towards children. So, as the Minister of Interior Alexandros Haritsis said yesterday, there is no way we can do behind the training of refugees throughout Greece and, of course, in Samos. That is why more money has been made available for their transport. That is to be clear on a number of issues. As far as Mr Sevastakis' question is concerned, Mr Sevastakis, you are right. The situation in Samos doesn't fit in what I usually say is marginal. He's crossed that line. At the moment in Samos, at the reception and identification centre, there are three thousand six hundred and sixty-six third-country citizens in a small six-six hundred-five in essence, to tell the whole truth. We could have a whole debate about how this situation came about. I would like to point out, of course, that there is a great difficulty on the part of the services of the Ministry and other ministries. You mention a few things. Of course, there were two other facts: One fact is time-consuming, that is, that the Antiregion's non-cooperation mainly in shaping another space - because the CYT actually hangs above Vathy - which would be simpler and more comfortable and where everything could work better. The second thing I'm saying is for the services. In fact, it's the very increased flow. That is, in 2017 in Samos, we had five thousand six hundred eighty-three arrivals. In 2018 we had eight thousand five hundred sixty-two. And the big problem is that the about five thousand of these arrivals are the four-month September - December 2018, which created a completely new situation. I will not, however, stick to the figures, although I will mention that three thousand five hundred sixty-four third-country citizens were removed from Samos in 2017. In 2018 five thousand six hundred eleven were removed. In other words, while it has increased, we have reached the situation you described before: some are leaving, even more are coming. This means, of course, that we need to take - and we are taking - very concrete measures. One measure is to insist on the essence of the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey. So what does the joint statement say? What this world must remain in Turkey and returns should be a corrective mechanism. This isn't happening in Samo. Our program succeeds in Lesvos, Lero, Chios, Kos. In Lesvos, we have nine thousand, who were on 1 September, four thousand five hundred right now, and it goes better. In Samos, we don't have the same results. So our insistence is, in consultation with Turkey, in relation to the flows. But that's not good enough. Our agreement with the Ministry of Health is to add two doctors in mid-February, so that the vulnerability procedures can proceed more quickly. While someone applying for asylum, when he is not vulnerable, the process as a whole is completed in about three to four months, when he states vulnerability, these months are multiplied. I'm talking about all the procedures. And it's a problem that in Samos we have a part-time doctor who does what he can do, but the result is poor. The third is that the first part of the procedures has already been completed. There has been a space which does not affect Vathy either - I will say it by their names, because we know that all this is going through - nor the Mytilians, so that there will be a new reception and identification centre. I hope that, by the end of April, this will be a complete facility for Vathy to close this centre and that the area will be attributed to the municipality. This is very important to us. At the same time, we have sent two teams - we have sent one and sent one in the next few days and two - those who would say rapid intervention teams to proceed with asylum procedures. We have some results that are quite good. At the same time, we want to take the unaccompanied minors, who are about two hundred and fifty in the reception centre of Samos, as soon as possible, in consultation with the Ministry of Labour, within one week of Samos in structures in the interior. These are parts of a system which, because I now have the previous experience that we did not achieve in Samos that we achieved in Lesvos, I do not want to specify precisely in time, but I believe that the multiplier effects within February will appear so that we can have a definitive solution by the end of March so that the situation can be normalised. Otherwise, I cannot agree with the communication from the Samos Labour Centre in so far as it is not, in my opinion, fully honest. Because the announcement says: 'Take them out of Samos'. And then he puts around - around various faitures: “Get them in the hinterland. And from the inland let's go where they want.' However, I say that seventy-five thousand refugees and immigrants currently present in Greece, as a result of what has happened since 2015, are in Greece. I do not know the islands from Greece. And that's how we all have to deal with it together. So the strengthening of services, the transfer of those who have the right - first and foremost of the unaccompanied - to strengthen medical services and asylum services and first-time reception is our priority. And you should know that Samos is our priority over the rest of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u51	Minister, before I give the floor to Mr Sevastakis - if he wishes, he can comment on it - from what I understand you said that one of the reasons for the increased flows is that the EU-Turkey Agreement is not being complied with or is not being respected as a whole. There's arrhythmia. I hope that at the forthcoming meeting of the Prime Minister and Mr Erdogan this issue will be raised. And I hope even more - I do not know, you will tell us in your dentistry - that you will be with him to speak with your counterpart and put it as a matter of fact, because it is essential. Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I would stress that I have asked the Prime Minister to put it in the debate with Mr Erdogan, especially the Samos issue. And I would ask you, too, to make a commitment that it will be put to the talks. It's obvious there's a circuit, which is inconceivable. You know, opposite Samos, it is a purely or almost purely military region, unlike the area opposite Chios, which is tourist. How is it possible in a purely military area that this leak, the break-up of the system, can exist? I'm sure we're in breach of the deal. However, there is another question: whether the profile, given that the intrusions are mainly, or largely, from Central Africa, falls within the categories of the European Union-Turkey Agreement. At least in her recent visit, Mrs Merkel had said that it is essentially only Syrians who are responsible for the provisions of this agreement. So there is a question about the legal dimension of the matter. I would like to say that we actually have a liquid, destructive and non-regulatory situation: whether the agreement is violated or not the profile of the people in the agreement. So we have a legal problem in this case. I accept that there is a problem of delay from CEDEFOP and perhaps from the administration of the local centre. CEDEFOP shall withdraw the documentation. I have the promise of the Minister of Health that it will be strengthened with two extra doctors. However, this is the small scale, as well as the problems you have mentioned. I would stress that the collective organisations of teachers, teachers and the intellectuals of education are indeed promoted in one direction. However, these problems are secondary. Primary is functional. Social structures don't work, because we've put on a bus a hundred seats of two hundred and fifty people. That's not ideological. It produces, has ideological effects, but primarily it's functional. We must therefore insist on that. I know what you're doing. However, I would point out that all these years have shown that very much of the administrative structures have a problem. They have a problem of assembly, they have a problem of cooperation, they have a problem of production. I mean that this dimension of non-functionality is not random. She's wicked, it looks like there's a organized circuit and I'd like greater diligence in tracking it down. In conclusion, I would like to say that the islands have reduced social tolerance because they are closed social biosystems. The islands do not have the alternative to the mainland. That's the difference. It's not a species or quality difference. It is the difference in the fact that the islands are enclosed with social biosystems. Therefore, they have small hospital structures, which are borne and no alternative. They have small population tolerances. These are small, limited and closed numbers. In the islands, therefore, the intensity of the problem has a much more dramatic impact on social cohesion, and I would like this dimension to be placed on the ground, because it is also returning to the humanitarian management of the hospital and persecuted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u53	The Minister has the floor and we'll finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u54	Yes, Mr Colleague, I understand very well and I fully agree with the last thing you said, which concerns the islands. We simply have to agree that it should be about the whole of the islands. But here, we have an excellent situation in Samos. That's what we have to accept. What happens in Samos, the fact that they have their own structure, etc. the islands should also be in other islands, but to which it is not at present the case. So we're looking behind this and a piece of you said it and you, I've denounced it publicly: we need to step up our efforts. It is clear that on both sides, in other words on the side of Samos and on the side of Turkey, some violent circuits are being operated. And it is very strange - I can also have daily reports - that refugees and immigrants arrived in Samos with eight boats of sea. We're very lucky we didn't grieve. Nobody would say wrecks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u55	My Minister, these FRONTEX hotels, they're staying in five-foot hotels, and they're getting a fuckin' money, what do they do, can you tell me? Not that it was Greece's fault, but I say, what are they doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u56	Look, and the mandate of FRONTEX, if you would like my opinion, needs to be changed, because in a sense they operate many times as a host committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u57	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u58	I'm telling you, because if you're not on the side where the boat starts, nobody would say, then what? That is the main issue. We have also discussed with Mr Avramopoulos how this can be changed. That is the point I wanted to make. The second issue. It is not so easy for me to say that the agreement or the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey especially in Samos is not working. I would like to assure you, however, that at my meetings with Mr Soilou and with the committee Samos have been in a first place all this time. So first we're talking about Samos and then about Evros or the other islands, about the fact that a new runner has opened up in Evros, etc. What we can do is take extra measures, get more people to ask for asylum, more people to declare vulnerability, more people to do the procedures and better cooperation with the police and the port of returns, to improve the situation in many. I want to tell you a matter. Of course, I know that I will be under pressure in one hour from other islands. At the moment I have a thousand empty spaces in the interior, i.e. in the mainland, waiting for results from Samos. I mean, to take these people along with the two hundred and fifty vacant posts for unaccompanied minors, who I care about, one more. Not that I don't care about everyone else, but I say I care about one more unaccompanied minor. We therefore need to create other measures to strengthen the people of Samos, which have often demonstrated the size of their souls, the size of their patience and the size of their democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u59	As long as we don't make them run out of it. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-01-S1-commons.u60	With the agreement of the House at 11.26p. the sitting is closed for Monday, February 4, 2019, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
