ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, we shall begin the sitting. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 3-10-2019, the minutes of the JRC meeting held on Thursday 3 October 2019, with regard to the vote on all of the following drafts:]] 1. ‘Creation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ for the granting of the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the marine region 10, Ionian Sea, Greece’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Repsol Exploration S.A.’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ for the granting of the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the Ionian Sea Area, Western Greece’. 3. ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total E&P Greece B.V.’, ‘ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V.’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’, to grant the right of investigation and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the maritime region ‘South-west Crete’, Greece’. 4. ‘Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total E&P Greece B.V.’, ‘ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V.’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’, to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons to the marine region ‘Western Crete’, Greece’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today we are inaugurating the Prime Minister's time for the First Revision Session of the IH Parliamentary Period, with the debate on the first protocol number 51/3/1-10-2019 of the current question by the President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group to the Prime Minister on the subject: "The abolition of a Moria and Internal Borders camp". Speaking times, pursuant to Rule 132(1) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, are for the President of Parliament's Group Mera25 ten minutes, in order to develop his timely question and five minutes for his denology, and for the Prime Minister twenty minutes for his prototype and ten minutes for his denology. The President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, therefore, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, you are honoured, Prime Minister, for reintroducing the Prime Minister's time. Our Parliament must come to life, although I would prefer the model of the House of Commons: the questions should not be written and indeed drawn, so that it is more full of Parliament, that everyone knows that they have a hope through the legacy to ask questions to the Prime Minister. Let's think about it. The question I have put to you has as a fundamental stone the phrase'show to me how you treat the intimidated, to tell you who you are' as a person, as a country. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I am sure you agree that we must be ashamed as a country of what is happening in Moria, of what has happened in general, of how we handle immigration. I am sure, Prime Minister, that you agree that fires like the one that cost our fellow people's lives in Moria are inevitable when you stack thousands of people under terrible conditions. Camps such as the one in Moria of Lesbos are inconsistent with the principles of a civilized, liberal state. No rule of law can stand with our hands crucified, when thousands of our fellow humans are preparing to face the impeccable 'Winter Strategy' for the fifth consecutive year, unarmed and defenseless in the face of cold and rain. The Greek residents of Lesvos continue to endure the proximity and the identification of their place, their island, in the eyes of international public opinion, with camps - concentration camps, which are incompatible or are being destroyed - I would say - basic human rights. Prime Minister, because I believe you are in agreement with this, I am glad to ask you: What is the difference between your own policy and that of the previous government, which was fully integrated into the logic of Merkel - Erdogan, whose quintusia, philosophy, was the normalisation of the hardships of immigrants, as a means of preventing other immigrants from coming, that is, what they say in Brussels, “prevention through prevention”? How are we going to deal with winter the days they come? Do you intend to close Moria? When will the state finally take the self-evident step towards creating many small structures across the territory, so that immigrant families can join local communities, with the benefit of both local communities and their own? Or will Moria finally be the basis of the model, which will be cloned in the rest of Greece, perhaps with walls and fences, turning them into closed camps? Will you abolish the special internal border in the country, which does not allow immigrants to leave the islands, or will you build new walls around new Morians? Mr President, I will be using very little of my time now and I would like to add to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u3	Good. Prime Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased to be inaugurating today, in reply to Mr Varoufakis' question, the circle of the Prime Minister's time, which I intend to make. And in consultation with the Bureau of Parliament and with the other parliamentary parties, I would consider, Mr Varoufakis, changes to the Rules of Procedure, so that we can actually make this process more vivid, more interactive, with fewer lasting speeches and, Mr President, allow more Members and not just Chiefs of Parties to ask questions to the Prime Minister. I will make a slight circumvention of this rule, seeking to give brief answers, Mr Varoufakis, because the issue that you raised me is extremely important. And I take this opportunity to take advantage of the opportunity afforded by the Rules of Procedure to answer your question, to make a more comprehensive position on the issue of the immigration - refugee problem. So let me start by responding to you by starting with two main assumptions, without which I believe there can be no possibility of having a joint dialogue to address this crucial issue raised by your question. I noticed you talked about immigrants. You spoke of refugees too. So let us agree that refugees and other economic migrants are more involved. Another refugee issue and another immigration issue. And let us recognise that, on the basis of the facts available to the government today, the problem we are facing today is, above all, a problem of immigration and a less problem with refugees. What do I mean by that? In 2015 Syrians, who left desperately, fleeing their homes to escape the war, represented about 75% of the people entering our country. Apparently, they were almost all refugees. They had a refugee profile. But today, Syrians are only two out of ten. 50% are Afghans and Pakistanis. They are organised by traffickers, as well as immigrants from Sub-Saharan Africa, Somalia, Congo and other neighbouring countries. In other words, let us agree that the majority of those who enter Greece today have a profile of economic migrants rather than refugees. I believe that this is a very important distinction, which is necessary to explain the philosophy of our policy. Secondly, the issue you have raised is a problem that is much easier to deal with at the beginning than when it has now been jammed. I therefore find it difficult to criticise retrospectively. You're not in this charge. You have not dealt with this issue. I criticise you on other issues, not the refugee issue. But it is at least paradoxical to criticise those who triggered the problem, either by incompetence or by ideology. And three numbers are enough. For four years they have returned to Turkey, on the basis of the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey, only a thousand eight hundred six people. And most of these returns were voluntary returns. The new government received sixty-nine thousand three hundred and seventy-seven pending asylum applications, based on the August figures, and for a whole four years only 22% of European funds were used to bring this up to 35% immediately after the new government took office, with the aim of reaching 50% by the end of 2020. Let us not talk about the dismantling of European money. OLAF has established itself permanently in Greece and investigates this dark aspect of the refugee - immigration issue. With these two data, then, you will also agree, Mr Varoufakis, that everything you describe in your question has not been done independently of the unsuccessful and ideological policy pursued by the previous government. It was a policy of zero protection of our borders. It was also a policy of mocking every agony about the situation in Evros and the islands of the eastern Aegean. It was a political inertia in Greece and in Europe, it was a hypocrisy policy towards human suffering for party benefits. It was also a policy of unprecedented insufficiency, which led to scenes such as the one of Idomeni, Moria, which exposed us internationally. So those who broke into every concept of government responsibility and human dignity, let them stop pretending to be honorers. It's time for a little, even, self-criticism. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the enormous problems we have inherited and for which I will not speak any more, all this is beginning to change. It changes legislation, changes policy orientation, changes the day-to-day management of the problem. Border controls are intensified, the asylum procedure is speeding up our islands too - to answer the substance of your question - they are discharged in an organised manner and, of course, always under the responsibility of the state. All of this is included in a coherent programme of four simultaneous and parallel actions. A first and most important move, at the initiative of the Ministry, the Minister, the Deputy Minister responsible, will soon come to the national Parliament to adopt a new, compact, strict and fair asylum system for those who deserve it, with full respect for the rights of the applicants, but also without margins of abuse and, above all, with faster procedures. The big part of the draft law is that, for the first time, the country acquires one - I stress it - a law governing issues relating to international protection as a whole. A single text includes directives setting up the common European asylum system, governing the reception, examination process, the recognition of applicants, but, obviously, national initiatives specific to this directive are also included in the law, in the context of the possibilities that we have as national legislators. And this decision on codification, beyond its obvious necessity, also has a special symbolism: for the first time the legislator has been dealing with this particular sector of law with the necessary seriousness. And it is also an answer to those who have lost rights, but who have not made sure to create a coherent framework for guaranteeing them. So we put a definitive end to anarchy and infraction at the reception stage. We see for the first time that in case foreigners do not comply with decisions to transfer them to other structures, it is assumed that they do not want protection and are referred to return procedures. And our target is clear. And I want to be clear here. Our aim is not to get into the system at all, even before registration, those who do not comply with the rules we have set ourselves. We are in fact speeding up the process of administrative and judicial crisis in asylum applications. We are not making any discounts on fundamental individual rights. We are, however, abolishing one of the four degrees of crisis and strengthening the Boards of Appeal as a strong second-degree filter. I would, of course, like to point out that the Appeals Committees are generally about 95% - if I am not mistaken - in agreement with the decisions of the Committees to a first degree. After registration, as long as applicants finally remain in the system, but do not comply with the transfer decisions, their application shall be examined with a rapid examination within a few days. This is because it follows that they have submitted the application, knowing that they are not refugees themselves, just to delay their removal. In any case, they violate the duty to cooperate. And that, from now on, will have consequences. Mr Varoufakis, only those who refer to the directive will be vulnerable. The post-traumatic stress is eliminated as a reason for vulnerability. The definition of finality and, in particular, what constitutes a subsequent request shall also be corrected. He has so far created a number of problems and paradoxical demands. And we propose a list of safe countries of origin and safe third countries. This is a brave political decision, imposed by reality, but also in line with the practice of all European states for years. We also provide for the individual representation of the applicants at each stage of the procedure from the Asylum Service to the courts. In other words, the system remains - and must remain - only those who really want protection are in the country and show due diligence. Movement two: All structures of administration, justice, Armed Forces, Police, local administration now cooperate with the health and welfare system, as well as education. All the kids have to go to school. This was provided for in previous legislation. It's one of the few positives we've received from the previous government. However, parents who refuse this will have administrative sanctions. Within 2020, we include forty thousand asylum seekers in apartments and hotels and sixteen thousand in employment programmes. This is the first time that Greece has submitted a strategic plan on this subject to the European institutions. Of course, we are changing the framework for cooperation with non-governmental organisations so that we can finally distinguish the day from the wheat. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Certification, auditing, accountability is established. These organizations, moreover, enjoy considerable funding. And if around them a bad reputation has spread, which is unfair to serious, important non-governmental organisations, which do an excellent job in supporting the state, because all non-governmental organisations have been left to their fate without any control, without any certification and without any distinction between serious non-governmental organisations and those serving other objectives and other purposes. Action 3: The country is shielded. At land borders, we are setting up more observatories, we are intensifying the surveillance of Evros, while at sea borders, what some have never existed, we are strengthening the forces of the port by means of additional floating means. We're increasing the potential. Already this last week in the eastern Aegean, there are twenty more patrols per day. We hire four hundred employees with work contracts at the Asylum Service. So we will be able to triple the ability to handle cases. With transitional provisions, we regulate old cases by way of summary procedures in order to reduce the number of outstanding cases by 60%. At the same time, we are creating closed pre-regulatory centres for those who are not entitled to asylum. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Our aim is overall the returns and the re-launches, which should be made to Turkey by a large majority of them, of reaching ten thousand in 2020. We are, however, giving a special weight to the relief of the islands of the eastern Aegean. We owe it to our islanders, who have been tested for years. More than twenty thousand asylum seekers will be moved to ten inland regions. The Ministry of Interior, along with the Ministry of Civil Protection, is already drawing up the relevant plan. And we will ensure that they are installed in serious infrastructures and certainly in decent conditions. But at this point let me, Mr Varoufakis, remind you of something central to the current difficult situation. The previous government disagreed with Turkey's designation of "first asylum" and this not only prevented the immediate return of those who had to return there, enclaving in our islands of thousands of immigrants, but was a position that was even contrary to the joint declaration of Turkey and the European Union. The bill changes this grey regime. Greece will finally draw up a list of safe third countries and a safe country of origin, as is the case in each European country. The fourth move of our Government on migration is its emergence in an issue with an international dimension. I have already done so, devoting enough time to my speech to the United Nations General Assembly. I will repeat this at the forthcoming summit of the European Union, where we managed to include this issue on the agenda for the debates. Immigration is a European issue and it will not just be limited to our own borders. It is well known that a large number of refugees and immigrants enter here to finally escape from other Central European countries. It therefore requires an overall European approach based on the acquis of the Union, and that is exactly what I will repeat before my counterparts on 17 and 18 October. The other part of the international dimension concerns Turkey, while respecting the renewed European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration. The Deputy Minister was in Turkey the last few days, talking to Turkey's competent Minister for Immigration. We are under pressure to update this agreement, to alleviate malfunctions affecting the situation of the islands, to recognise returns from the mainland as well. But I want here to be absolutely clear. Turkey, as stated in the joint declaration, must also assume its responsibilities. He has the ability to control the flow in the Aegean Sea. It is not allowed to give the impression that it is taking advantage of this issue for its own geopolitical objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by repeating the main aspects of our policy on the subject: better protection of borders, stricter, fairer and faster asylum and re-process systems, relief of our islands with better, better management, diffusion and incorporation of the immigration burden into the territory and, finally, an increase in this issue as an international issue. I want to be clear. This issue didn't come to leave. Europe is and will be a magnet for moving from Asia and Africa. The phenomenon will continue, probably intensified. That is why we also need unity, maturity and plan within the national Parliament, so that we can address ourselves fertilely, with a sense of national security, but also respect for human dignity and democratic standards. Greece, Mr Varoufakis, has always been affected by the great European events, with significant geopolitical consequences, such as wars, population movements. It worked because he knew how to manage them and be on the winner side. That's how he'll make it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Before giving the floor to Mr Varoufakis, I would like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "Electronic German School of Panagiotou Vossos" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-seven students and students and three attendants of teachers from the Erasmios Greek-German School of Panagiotou Vossos (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Varoufakis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u6	There is no doubt, Prime Minister, that the immigration crisis is not a Greek crisis, but it is a crisis in Europe, as you quite rightly said. And unfortunately the problems faced by our country are the result of the fact that there is no European Union really. The way in which they closed the border, the fact that if you cared for a car in Rome to travel to Munich, you will now be crossing a closed border between Italy and Austria, Austria and Germany, the way in which they handled Greece, Italy, proves that I wish we had a European Union, at least in immigration, but of course in budgetary matters. You have inherited a situation which is unacceptable. There is no doubt about that. But you will allow me to tell you that by avoiding answering to the specific question I raised, you have given birth to many fears - or, indeed, you have strengthened them - by generalizing your general policy, that what we are facing is the continuation of the previous government's policy, strengthened in the wrong direction. I asked you if you're gonna close Moria. How will you deal with the winter that comes with our fellow human beings defenseless? That's what I didn't get an answer to. Of course, that's the expert. More generally, let me tell you that we have three main arguments. Our aim is not to disagree. Our aim is - what you said - unity to tackle the problem. But in order for unity to exist and be on a solid basis, we must be honest about our disagreements. First disagreement: you asked me to agree to the enormous diversification between refugees and immigrants. There's no chance we could agree on that, Mr. Mitsotakis. For us, a bewildered family, who has almost drowned, has been caught on the coast of Samos, Lesvos, on any of our islands, has spent all of this at the risk of her life, does not do so because she chooses it. He's doing it because he's scared. She does because her child was either shot or starved. If you want to separate those who pass, who put themselves in this process, terrified by spheres or starvation, it is a division that we will not follow you. And it's not just that separation. Take the war conflicts. I ask a question: is Pakistan a safe country? Syria you said it wasn't. The Syrians are the 'elected' refugees. A family leader, however, who is in the battlefield between the Taliban and the government army in northern Pakistan or Afghanistan, is he not a ‘clarified’ refugee? You are well aware of the crimes committed in the SYRIZA government. There are specific complaints we have made about Pakistani people who have not even given them the right to seek asylum because they are considered to be from a safe environment. In other words, I would like to ask: Who are they refugees? Only those considered to be victims of bombings by regimes that the West has designated as hostile? The rest of them, aren't they? Let me tell you that by listening to you, I see that we are going to strengthen the former regime of SYRIZA. We see your first moves to deprive AMKA of the refugees. Very recently Mr Metarakis signed a decree that even minor children born in the country would not have AMCAs. We see cages, we hear about closed hot spots. I also hear you talk about strengthening the agreement with Mr Erdogan. Was there a chance that Mr. Erdogan wouldn't use this confiscated agreement just to play his geopolitical games? How are you going to impose on him a game he designed for? Mr Mitsotakis, Prime Minister, you will fail, because strengthening the model, modelling the use of normalisation of hardships, incarceration, rigour and repression are absolutely specific. The ineffectiveness of this system is absolutely given. They won't stop coming in. Remember the fence in Evros of Mr. Samaras. What did it work? Let the boats come to our islands. And what else did it work? And as a liberal economist you have to agree with me. All it has achieved is to increase the profits of the travellers. Suppression, the only thing it does, as in the case of drugs, is to help traders. It doesn't stop the problem, it strengthens it. Prime Minister, every time we build walls or fences, it is either around a Moria, or it is at the border of Mexico - the United States, what we do in the name of the security of our citizens, it is poisoning our own societies, creating in the shadow of the walls and the fences of new kinds of uncertainties. Another word about the separation of economic migrants from refugees. We're talking about the vote on the payroll. What are our emigrants in their large majority? Economic migrants. And don't tell me our people were legal, while the others are illegal. If they were legal, they were legal because countries - perhaps earlier - opened the borders to them and did not use the demonisation of immigrants as a means of preventing them. Mr. Mitsotakis, you know what? You know that, I guess. Today in Australia - I say this because I know this country very well - there are tens of thousands of children of the crisis, children who have left here, children who are illegal immigrants, economic immigrants. Thousands have gone with tourist visas and have stayed there and lost in the system to survive. Do you want Australia to treat these Greeks, the children of crisis, the'memorandum' to say it charmingly and tragically, in the way you suggest, with closed Morias and hot spots? Prime Minister, humanity is on the move. Finally, not only as Greeks but also as Europeans, we must understand that the closed borders, the walls, the shooting, the use of hardships as a deterrent cannot be consistent with the rule of law and a state liberal. Take, for example, what is happening right now outside the House, in Koukaki and Plaka. We have thousands of foreigners who have rented Airbnb, who are more and more owned by foreigners who have come here, giving them two hundred and fifty grand to get a Schengen visa to stay in Paris and Berlin. Our hypocrisy is unbelievable. To the stranger who has 250,000 euros to desertify our neighbourhoods, without helping the local society, we give a Schengen visa to stay in Berlin. To whose child is starving, we have him closed hot spots. For a thousand years Europe has been emigrating, sending economic immigrants to America, Africa, Asia. We have to understand as Europeans that what has happened is something very simple. Demographic dynamics have changed. We started ageing as a continent and it's normal to have the flows here. And I close by saying this. Our great philosophical, ideological difference, Mr Mitsotakis, is this: You see immigrants as a threat. Transfer immigration policy issues to the Ministry of Civil Protection. You have advocated the creation of a portfolio in Brussels to protect the European way of life by immigrants. We see immigrants as an opportunity. And before you convict us as ethers, leftists, Marxists who use immigration to promote an antiquated aristocratic perception, I would like to remind you of what he writes in the Statue of Freedom: "Give me your tired, your poor, your loathsome masses that long to breathe freely, the miserable waste found on your shores. Send me the homeless, the seafoodmen. I raise my torch by the golden gate." Our view is different from yours. We believe that if the children and grandchildren of migrants who have come to Greece today, we embrace them and do not close them in Moria and we do not build new fences and new walls around these Moria, they will become the best Greeks, the best ambassadors of the Greeks in the next decade. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary of Mera25 is ringing.]] And you don't have to believe me. You force me - and I feel a little bad about this - to read a paragraph - and I close, Mr President - which, with its well-known euphoria, was Ronald Reagan in 1980, next to the Statue of Freedom: 'Inside this golden gate, millions of men and women have passed. They didn't ask what we could do for them. They asked what they can do to turn the country that gave them asylum at the brightest home of freedom in history. They brought with them courage and values of the family, of work and of freedom. Immigrants made America great." You want to shut them down in reinforced Morians! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u7	Please, Mr. Prime Minister, for his denial.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Varoufakis, you surprise me in your dentistry and I will not rush to render you characterizations with an ideological mark. I will simply tell you that the fundamental rules of international law are completely ignored. The United Nations itself makes a distinction between refugees and immigrants. The asylum procedure is an individual act which determines the specific characteristics of each asylum seeker on a case-by-case basis. On your own point - if I understood it correctly - there should be no border control, no asylum procedures, because if refugees and immigrants are one, they are all welcome. We are invoking someone's economic tolerance so that we can welcome him to our country, without any rule and without any procedure. That's what I realized you're suggesting. With this government there is no chance that this policy will be implemented! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] No fences, Mr. Varoufakis, no walls. We want rules. And some of the rules are the way in which a sovereign state guards its borders, because there are borders both on land and on the sea. When someone illegally enters the country, they have to have a reason to do so. If that reason is that we really have to enjoy international protection, then we are setting up such a framework of rules that we can be sure that the truly grounded people of this world will find a hospitable home in Greece. You asked me whether we were afraid of refugees as a force that would confuse the Greek society. I say to you, 'No, I'm not afraid of them'. I am not afraid of them, as long as they are the ones who comply with the rules to enjoy international protection. And if Europe or Greece wants to make a specific immigration policy to enhance its demographic problem, it has the opportunity to do so, but it will do so organized and in accordance with rules. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You referred to the Statue of Freedom. When the economic migrants of the previous generations reflected the Statue of Freedom through the fog that is often present in the region, they knew that they would also go to Ellis Island, where they will be recorded, identified and know who the American authorities will enter the country and who will not enter! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And please do not compare, Mr Varoufakis, a country which was built by immigrants, a country with vast areas that needed immigrants, a multicultural and multinational country, with Greece or other European countries. You mentioned - this was interesting - in the Australian example. Australia, Mr. Varoufakis, is a liberal country. You know her well, after all. It is also a country that respects human rights and is at the top of the evaluation indicators for the quality of its democracy and respect for human rights. There is no way illegal ship can reach the coast of Australia! It's over! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They say it clearly! They say, "You won't get there"! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you know why they call it? They don't say it because they're inhuman or because they don't see the human pain behind these stories too. They say it because they want to break - and they want and they can - the traffickers' circuits. The only way to break the traffickers' circuits is to know those who are currently paying large sums and are not refugees, that they will return back to the country from which they came, i.e. in the first phase in Turkey or Pakistan or in regions of Afghanistan. You are right about what you say about Afghanistan. It's not all about Afghanistan. However, there are regions in Afghanistan which do not justify the interpretation that those from these regions should automatically enjoy protection status. The only way, therefore, to break this abscess, this inhumane system, where people pay a great deal with the expectation of coming to a Europe that - let us be objective - at the moment does not have the opportunity to welcome everyone, is for them to know that they are throwing their money back into the rain and that if they do not enjoy protection status! And that is the policy that this government is implementing! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You mentioned the issue of European solidarity, and there I would agree with you that, in fact, Europe has not yet shown sufficient evidence of European solidarity in dealing with this problem, because too many are hiding behind the problem facing countries that are the external borders of Europe and are saying 'let the problem be managed by Greece or Italy or Spain, it is not for us'. I am referring specifically to some of the Visegrad countries, which have been systematically left out of any attempt at fair distribution of refugees within the European Union. So to them, the Heads of State and Government, I say clearly that, as Prime Minister of Greece, there must be specific sanctions for European countries that do not participate in a fair distribution of refugees at European level. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's hypocritical what's going on. You cannot at the same time enjoy the benefits of participating in the Schengen area and not accept that in the context of a European management of the problem you cannot get a thousand, two thousand, five thousand refugees and just throw the ball of responsibility into the states that are Europe's external borders. I wish that we could find you people in this effort, because the issue will be raised not only by me, but I believe by other Heads of State and Government at a next summit. As long as we try and fight for a common European policy, which will reform Dublin so necessary, it is necessary to think that the concept of European solidarity is not just exhausted in giving the countries that are the external borders, but also in absorbing at European level a serious, large number of refugees who - yes, you are right, Mr Varoufakis - can blur and must botch an economy that is ageing and which needs human resources. But this can only be done by rules and procedures. So, of course, we can discuss how many refugees our country can absorb, where they have to go, how they need to be integrated into local societies. As you have seen, I have spoken about these issues and, of course, the refugee children, who will finally choose to make our country a second home, must feel and feel Greek. That's right and they'll go to Greek school and, if they're excellent students, pick up the Greek flag. That's the right thing to do. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Far from us any xenophobia or any racism. I am proud, when I go to parades and see a society that slowly turns into multiculturalism. Our national integrity is not questioned in this way. So we are seeing all this, Mr Varoufakis, but in the context of a coherent policy, which is taking place - step by step - quickly, because we do not have time to lose - from the co-legislative ministries. You wondered why the responsibility went to the Civilian Ministry. So I say to you that there is also a matter of national security. There is a matter of national security - I do not want to go any further, I think you understand it - when uncontrollablely enough twenty-five-year-olds, alone, young people, from difficult areas, who don't seem to be too downtrodden, with enough money available to them. Yes, we are concerned about this at national security level and you should be concerned about it. So this issue also has this dimension, which we also want to address. You asked me about Moria. Moria can withstand three and a half thousand, it can be four thousand refugees - immigrants in its different structures and it has much more today. The number will be reduced to the level that Moria can manage. That's the problem with Moria. The problem with Moria is that it has far more today than we can manage. If Moria closes, we'll have to build another center in Mytilini. There is Moria, there have been serious resources, Moria should be at such a level that she manages the people she can support. Finally, with regard to the issue with the statement you have deceived, the statement is the only tool we have today in relation to Turkey. And if there was a problem with the statement - I am sorry to say that - it was not only about Turkey, it was also about our country. And seek responsibility from your previous partners, because they did not make returns to Turkey and why they left people throughout a process of asylum that they never perfected just to make some supposedly rightmakers their part, because SYRIZA and this political space of all his ideas, not just his inability to manage this issue. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So the agreement exists, it has problems, it has to be updated and we will be fighting in this direction. However, when we do what is appropriate to us, we are looking at applications quickly, the applications and those who do not enjoy protection are returned to Turkey. We will also put Turkey before its responsibilities. And Turkey today, which has a total provocative attitude throughout the Eastern Mediterranean, must realise that, in the context of its relations with the European Union, it cannot blackmail on this issue, and indeed by "evaluating" the tragedy of people to pressure the European Union. The European Union is here to consult Turkey on this matter. And it can be contacted with Turkey and a solution can be found, which will be mutually beneficial. However, Mr Varoufakis, your imaginary world, where Greece - and I close with it - is the friendly receptor of every intimidated, every sore man, a paradise in which all the people of this world can find refuge, you will allow me to leave him to remain in your imaginary world. Our government has a completely different policy on this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, with Mr Mitsotakis' denunciation, we have completed the debate on the current question to the Prime Minister, so we shall proceed immediately to the next time-consuming questions on the issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the debate on the topical and urgent question report. The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing: ‘We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent questions under Parliamentary Control on Friday, October 4, 2019, that the presence of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis, is impossible - to whom the fifth number is directed. Question No 60/1-10-2019 topical and urgent question second - because of blockade - participation in meetings with representatives of European institutions internally, pursuant to Rule 131(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure." The topical and urgent questions to be discussed are as follows: The numbers. 53/1-10-2019 and 54/1-10-2019 topical questions to be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection Mr Eleftherios Economou. The numbers. Questions Nos 43/24-9-2019, 59/1-10-2019 and 45/25-9-2019 Question No 409/28-8-2019 - pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure - will be answered by the Secretary of State for Health Mr Vassiliou Kontozamanis. The numbers. 58/1-10-2019 and 63/1-10-2019 topical questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Apostolos Vessiropoulos. No. No. 49/30-9-2019 topical question will be answered by the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis. We now move on to the second debate under No 49/30-9-2019 on the second time question by Mr Kegeroglou on the second question by Mr Kegeroglou on the subject: "A need for measures to integrate public self-propelled skates into Greek cities". Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I will say that we have already followed a debate in which two things emerged. The first is the fact that both SYRIZA and the government accept it, that SYRIZA created a situation with Moria and, more generally, with migration and as a way of dealing with and managing Greece, and that goes on. It is three months now, and the second we have seen is that the 'global' New Democracy is not yet ready for the plan. I think it's a waste of valuable time. But let us come to more pedestrian things, which are easier to deal with. The question I raise concerns both the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Civil Protection. You know very well that automotive electric skates are a mild means of transport mainly to cities, environmentally friendly, easy to use, free of charge. These features are its advantages and at the same time the disadvantages that cause problems. What for? First of all, because there is no institutional framework. There's no definition of where they're circulating. On the pedestrian road? On the sidewalks? On the highway? On the bike, where does he exist? At the same time, they have not been defined and the characteristics that have to do with the very identity of the medium, that is, they are essentially objects not flying an unknown identity, but on the ground an unknown identity, which we see is being used. I think that what we need to do is deal with the problems and open up positive roads to exploit the advantages. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this sense, therefore, I ask the Minister whether he intends to introduce an institutional framework, both for the rules on the movement of these vehicles, the conditions and, of course, for their inclusion in the travel system. In this spirit, I state at the same time the positivity with which the world is facing this instrument, but also the reluctance of the accidents that have taken place so far, as well as the local controversy in many municipalities and local communities that have been in existence, because the appropriate solutions have not been given. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, I agree with you that these instruments, which are, in fact, the result of the latest technological development, are instruments which are indeed environmentally friendly. We as Government have repeatedly said that the question of electromobility is our main priority, the issue of sustainable urban mobility, and of course it is one of the issues that we want to address. A few weeks ago a question had been raised by colleagues from the Greek Solution, which had even been answered. I think it is useful to repeat some of these issues, because it is good to hear and understand the world where we are right now. First of all, I would like to say that our Ministry - and as far as I know the Ministry of Civil Protection - has so far not issued any document which could result in the free movement of these vehicles in places or in routes used for the public circulation of vehicles, pedestrians and animals. Nevertheless, we are talking about a phenomenon which no European country has encountered because they have all caught up with it because of the huge and fastest technological development. Of course, there is also a gap between the European Union and the Member States. However, as a ministry, we have already taken some initiatives. And I think that will satisfy you and answer your question. In particular, the services of the Ministry are already working with co-responsible services and with the assistance of the working parties of the European Union in a rational and scientific manner in order to establish a framework of rules on the movement of these vehicles. Of course, the possibility of coexistence of all these small vehicles is also being considered, since not only are they electric skateboards, but also a number of other vehicles, such as wheelsets, rollers, or wheelboards, skateboards and, more generally, self-sufficient vehicles. So there must be a framework that also faces the challenges of the future. We need to think on this point, if you wish earlier, in order to face challenges that we will find in the future. One initiative that has been taken, among other things, and I think it also answers your question, is that on the basis of the letter from the Association of Greek Transporters, it has already been set up by our ministry to investigate the problems of safe movement of vehicles. I note at this point that these do not fall within the scope of Regulation 168/2013 and Directives 2007/46 and 2009/48, as is the case with other vehicles and for which type approval is required. In my dentistry, Mr Kegeroglu, I will answer and say to you, and in particular to which members this committee, which, within a binding four-month period, with the right to extend further two months, will have full and specific traditional conclusions that will fully define the issue of the regulatory framework by means of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Kegeroglu, before I give you the floor, I would like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS", 50 students and students and two trainers from the Erasmeion of the Greek-German School of Panagiotis Vossos (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, it seems positive and I would point out that the Ministry does not start with the logic set by some, that of the total ban on some equipment, which is the result of technological development, but that is not the fourth industrial revolution. It's a self-propelled electric vehicle. There have been decades of such vehicles. It is now simply a mass use by specific bodies, mainly private, because the position in which the control is being carried out has been checked so that there are no losses. Otherwise on his own, it's just an electric vehicle. Technology has existed for many years. But the state once again is back. I would say that there is no need for us to always look at European wise men on a subject. In order to remember our history, Greece has also been a photographer of Europe. Why should science be more ahead, or experience or problems in Europe? Of course, where they have moved forward and there is experience and good practice, we should use it. There isn't one here. Are we going to tell them again 'why do you have?', as they did not have at another time critical for Greece? So the initiative, which you said to create a working group and to move forward in the institutional framework, is in the right direction. I would say, however, that the consultation should be extended, so that everyone can express their views so that we can have the best result through the organisation of this dialogue. It is, of course, a wider issue, which is the organisation of the public space, the organization and how we are moving in the city. There are other issues here, which are the responsibility of other ministries. Through the framework that exists or we want there to be for the organisation of the public space, the traffic on the motorways, on the pedestrian roads, on the bicycles, we will also deal with the issue of these self-propelled electric vehicles, which, as you quite rightly said, are not only the classic pedestrian, but also self-propelled vehicles, but also the vehicles that serve disabled people. This is a very important point which I also want you to take into account. The state has taken care of their movement, but it is not always ensured that such a vehicle can move freely in a disabled person. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So it is a very important issue and we agree on that. But I would ask you to start with either a debate in the committee responsible for road safety or in the Committee on Production and Trade, so that the views of all the parties and the Ministry, on the initiative they have taken, can be heard and consulted by all operators and scientists. The Association of Transporters is, I think, very important - and not only - as well as the sections of the polytechnics and universities that can help in this direction. Then come as a legislative framework. These can be organised in a short time and there is currently interest. If you are able, you will have to tell us a timeline, because it is urgent to deal with barren controversy on municipal councils. I have already followed and there is such a debate in many municipalities, which is barren. Since there is no institutional framework, since there are no issues, I think it is the worst thing to decide and make a resolution on each municipal council, whether it is for or against, without conditions and without rules. A message needs to be made that we are going to create an institutional framework, so we want the creative proposals of the municipalities and all actors in this direction and not their confrontation with a 'yes' or a 'no', which is no use anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u16	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u17	Mr Colleague, as I told you in my prology, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has already taken specific initiatives on this issue. You will allow me to tell you that our country on this issue is not one but two steps forward, because I have the opportunity to speak with my counterparts and with the other European countries and I tell you that at least on this issue we have moved forward. I will tell you in particular how this committee was formed, who it consists of and with a specific timetable when it will have the deliverables. I think that all those bodies you have said about the consultation - and you are absolutely right - are already involved in this committee. I tell you attributes that beyond the Ministry's service, he participates a representative of the Institute for Sustainable Mobility and Transport Networks, a representative of the Greek Transporters, participates an expert on microcirculation from the University of Patras. These are the regular members. In the extraordinary members there are representatives of the Ministry of Citizen Protection, there is a representative of the CEDEFOP, a representative of the Hellenic Institute of Research and Education on Road Safety and the Prevention and Reduction of Carriage Accidents "Pan Mylonas". So you realise, Mr Colleague, that all these bodies you have rightly pointed out will be involved in the work of the committee. As far as the timetable is concerned, we are also waiting for last additions to start work, it is binding. And when the timetable is four months - with the right to extend another two months in case it has not completed its work - the evaluation and suggestion of any immediate interim measures will be made until a definitive institutional framework is established. So we're dealing with temporary cases as well. In addition, within two months of the start of work, there will be an investigation and evaluation of the existing situation both within Greece and the other Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area. There will also be registration of the vehicles concerned and their categorisation, because as I have said in the protology and you will agree, we are not talking about a type of vehicle but about enough, and we will also have to predict future types of vehicles because technology is running. A second deliverable within two months will be to collect and evaluate proposals from stakeholders and services. Within four months there will be the preparation and introduction of a regulatory framework - i.e. a proposal for a law or, anyway, a legislative intervention - which refers to the technical characteristics of these vehicles, to the possibility of verifying them, the premises and routes of their use, any additional requirements for their use, such as if a helmet is needed or if a diploma is needed to drive them. In addition, there will be a drafting and suggestion of a regulatory framework concerning the supervision of the market in these vehicles and parts, because we are not only talking about the issue of movement, but we also need to see the standards of the market and the components, as well as the development of any procedures relating to the safety of these products. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] You are therefore aware, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a specific timetable in terms of government which is binding. Within four months, perhaps for another two months, we will be fully prepared to make a regulatory framework for both the purchase and the safety of these micro-vehicles and, of course, the rules to be laid down for their circulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Secretary, I would like to tell you that I think you have forgotten that within these agencies it would be very important for RESEMA to exist as well. I think you should evaluate and see it, because they are people with disabilities, who can help and talk to you about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, we are out of order, but I should like to reply to you. We're open to suggestions. It is also a committee setting out its proposals for this framework. It is true, and I am saying this, that we are also at the disposal of the committee, which Mr Kegeroglu said, to come to some point to think of some initial thoughts and discussions on the subject. From there on it will be an institutional framework that will be open to all, to all political parties, so that we can reach and agree on a common framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We continue with the debate of the first under number 53/1-10-2019 on the first cycle of the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgiou Psychoyou to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Treaty of asylum seekers to the Corinth camp". The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before going through my question, Minister, I would like to make two brief comments on the Prime Minister's position earlier. The first is that blaming SYRIZA for incompetence, when the refugee - immigration is out of control throughout the country, is at least hypocritical and should concern the government. The second thing I would like to say is that I never expected a Greek Prime Minister to refer to Ellis Island as an example of the conditions that must exist so that people can join their territory. This is a very serious misfortune, it is a great disaster and it concerns us because if they dream of Lesvos and the rest of the islands being another Ellis Island, where our counterparts in the early century have been humiliated until they enter the country, that is very dangerous. I'm going through my question. Recently, Minister, and without prior planning, or rather there was planning to grant the Corinth camp to local society and services, an informally open hosting structure was launched in the former Corinth camp. Refugees have already been transported there from the evacuations of occupations and from asylum seekers from the Aegean islands. What we have seen is that the operation of the structure does not meet the requirements for a decent hospitality for refugees. The housing takes place in scenes divided into small rooms with plywood, instead of tolls, as originally announced, and which are clearly inappropriate to house the approximately six hundred people there. There is a shortage of qualified staff, i.e. doctors, psychologists, social workers, and there are also major shortcomings in infrastructure for the hygiene of the guests. So far there has been no official briefing, just how many people will be hosted in the structure and how long. Finally, most families with young children reside in the structure and there has been no care for their access to health and education, in particular after the last circular of the Ministry of Labour for AMKA that excludes asylum seekers. Over the last few days, in fact, the situation has deteriorated both in feeding and in care and medicine, and there are many vulnerable groups such as children and infants. We would therefore like to ask you, what you will do to ensure decent living conditions for their hospitality, the timetable for their accommodation in the structure and transport of them in decent conditions in apartments but also in hospitality structures, and how you will address the urgent needs for the existence of mental support doctors in education and housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u22	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, firstly by making a general position on what you referred to before, I would say that you are not very proud of what you left out of hand with regard to immigrants and refugees. I would ask that we do not enter such a search. You know very well that we are facing a national crisis and need sobering, approaching the problem responsibly and confronting such sensitivities and human rights are not helping. Allow at least and recognise to us that we are as sensitive as you are. I shall refer to what has to do with the structure in Corinth. The structure referred to in Corinth does not belong to the Regional Services of the Reception and Identification Agency, as defined in paragraph 6 of Article 25 of the d.122/2017. In order to monitor and coordinate actions to effectively address the issues arising from the refugee and migration flows exclusively in respect of transport, accommodation, feeding and healthcare of refugees and migrants, the local coordination centres for the management of the refugee crisis have been established, and as such the existing structure operates in the regional unit of Corinth, pursuant to Articles 96 of Law No.4368/2016 and Article 18 of Law 4587/2018, in conjunction with the number 000/8-2258/C.37 from 7-316 Joint Ministerial Decision as subsequently amended by No. 3696 from 14-6-17 similarly. The structure in Corinth is used and will be used as a transitional, according to the overall planning of the Ministry for the temporary establishment of citizens of third countries until they are transferred to other open hosting structures. There are now six hundred thirty - thirty - one families among them, with two hundred and eighty - four children. The International Organisation for Migration shall grant newly emerging species of primary need, such as sheets, towels, sanitary items and others, and shall provide the structure of technical staff and protection team. Temporary residences shall be transferred on the basis of programming and shall be formed in cooperation with the International Organisation for Migration and on the basis of availability to existing structures in the mainland. The form of accommodation provided is that which has been used for years in similar structures around the world. The rubb hall scenes are used on coral for the temporary stay in many of the respective facilities in Greece and the world by international organizations and have the advantage of fast installation. The Reception and Identification Service has already taken action to increase electricity supply, in cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence in this area, and to grant the relevant municipality of metal bins for the proper management and collection of the waste structure. At the same time, this service has been requested by the Ministry of National Defence to provide medical services and to provide feedingstuffs from October 2, in accordance with the provisions of L.4368/2016. Already feeding has begun. With regard to the issue of suspension of AMKA performance to third-country citizens, the number 80320/42862/DI18.2718/1-10-2019 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs document providing clarifications, in accordance with the legislative framework applicable to determining the categories of citizens, domestics and foreigners who are not entitled to AMKA, as well as the category of citizens who, for their better and more effective service, should be addressed to the competent services of the ECA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start by saying, Minister, that the rubb hall you say, on the islands are used for one or two days' stay and then people are transferred to hospitality structures. Saying that it will be a temporary stay there is not a specific timeframe and I think it is also dangerous for people to stay there for a long time. The second concerns the AMKA circular that excludes asylum seekers, which is why I said so. Therefore, the vast majority of the guests there do not have access to health, education and possibly work. So let me say that SYRIZA - because it is indeed a complex issue and, more importantly, a European issue - has in recent years moved on to a specific housing policy. He made twenty thousand hosting places in open structures, made eight thousand places in hotels through two programs and also made over twenty - five thousand places in apartments. It has also moved on to include refugees and asylum seekers in local communities, which has led to solidarity with voices of hatred, which unfortunately are heard by some of your own officials. So what I would like to say is that our main priority is the decongestion of the islands. After the decongestion of the islands and when they come to the mainland, there must be a specific project that you have been too late to implement and which was provided by the previous government. You have now raised an issue which is, unfortunately, out of control in most of the country. Because I cannot imagine that the conditions in Corinth or New Kavala are what they represent us either as a country or as a central political scene. And, of course, you are promoting type solutions for detention centres, which we have seen in recent years not only have solved the problem, but, in fact, what they have done is to keep the flows as they were, the returns are not increased, we have a costly structure which in fact also burdens the state budget, and, of course, it also violates the European Union's detention instructions, which say it must be the last instrument, once all the other administrative and legal resources have been exhausted by an asylum seeker. When we talk about detention centres, we still have the privilege in Corinth to have a PROKEA, which currently has over a thousand prisoners, when SYRIZA left two hundred fifty. The conditions prevailing are also afflicting workers and prisoners, but have also led to the country's convictions from the European Court of Justice and international organisations. And, of course, it has a health service that currently has a doctor, two nurses and a few managers. I think, therefore, that you should proceed immediately to transfer these people to truly decent hospitality structures, to continue the plan that SYRIZA has given you. You have delayed at least two months to transfer people to the mainland. Of course, we must ensure that as long as they stay there, the conditions will be decent and as best as possible. Because at the moment they do not meet the basic requirements, and that is why entities and movements of the city have come forward so that they can help and make the situation sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u26	I have listened carefully to what you are saying. I should like not to go back to what you have done, what we have received, and so on. It is a barren debate and I would not like to go on with it. You know that we are keeping them well, but in any case we are implementing a plan to address a critical national issue with a planning strategy, with cooperation with international actors and with full respect for the rights of refugees, but also by implementing what is provided for by internal and international law, for those who do not qualify for international protection as refugees. In any case, the problem is particularly acute. We face it responsibly, wisely, with strategic planning and in this direction we invite you to follow us carefully, contributing creatively through a review. You know that also in Corinth - what we said before - is a temporary stay. It is used as a first transport area, in order to then go to the rest of the hospitality structures. At the same time, the programme for accommodation in residential areas and in hotels with the cooperation of the IOM is already under way. There has also been an open invitation from the Ministry of Civil Protection to express interest and we are moving towards the implementation of these plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. We continue with the debate of the first under number 54/1-10-2019 on a topical question by MP Phytiotidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Saraciotis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Following vacant organic positions of ELOS". Mr. Economou will answer. Mr Sarakiotis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a day ago he met the lower Board of Transfers of the Hellenic Police Headquarters to fill the empty organic posts in the House. It is worth reminding that this body is composed of three officials and two employees' representatives, PDO and PDOXIA and meets at the direction of the political leader. It was decided to call a hundred seats, all of which are located in the two large urban centers, in Thessaloniki a hundred seats and one in Athens. It is of particular importance to mention that workers' representatives rejected this proposal, as the result of the vote was three to two accompanied by a written complaint, as they considered that it was a product of unprecedented manipulation. Minister, the rest of Greece do not face crime problems? Aren't the agencies having subscribing problems? What information do you receive from the various addresses of the country? Reasonable questions are raised, as the incidents of ELAS executives are repeated and relate to existing gaps throughout the territory. To this is worth adding the fact that the Directorate-General for Attica will be strengthened in a variety of ways with two thousand new executives. Regional administrations, on the other hand, are not excluded from the necessary secondments for the management of the refugee flows in the eastern Aegean, the Dodecanese and the Evros. Hundreds of ELAS executives. have been transferred to the country's eastern border to deal with the problem and obviously these people are missing from other agencies. It is right, of course, to make the specific moves, but while they are balanced by all the services in the territory, a corresponding balance must also be made at the level of remission, so that no gaps are created in the effort to fulfil the tasks of the Greek Police and the rest of the region. So I ask you: why the one-dimensional staffing of the empty organic positions of the Hellenic Republic was chosen. Thessaloniki and Attica, showing total indifference for the rest of Greece? What action do you intend to take to cover the gaps in both Fhoti and other police addresses in the country immediately? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u30	It is known that the majority of the Territorial Police Directorates are subordinated and indebted to human resources, due to the fact that the power of the Greek Police as a whole is in deficit, due to the reduced recruitment of personnel in previous years, in the framework of the commitments made in the debt-sharing agreements and the compulsory dispersion of a large number of police throughout the territory to deal with migration flows in conjunction with the staff leaving this House due to retirement. Accordingly, an effort is made by the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police to equal and balanced distribution of staff in all its services, central and regional, so that they operate at a satisfactory level for the provision of quality services to citizens by adapting to the emerging, each time, increased or ruthless service needs. In particular, the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police, having as the dominant objective the effective response of crime and the consolidation of the sense of security of citizens, carried out during the additional moves of this year in the non-declaration of positions in the Police Directorates of the country, with the exception of the Directorate-General for Police of Thessaloniki. Local jurisdiction areas of the General Police Directorates of Attica and Thessaloniki as the largest urban centers in the country, together with the lack of sufficient human resources, face increased crime problems with the other Police Directorates. This decision was deemed necessary in order to achieve the best possible use of police personnel, in line with the actual needs of this House's headquarters in order to serve the service and the public interest. The Headquarters, in assessing the service needs and in view of the best possible police over all the territory, proclaimed during the regular transfers of 2019, to fill in a few gaps, the following positions for the FPD: three posts of lieutenants, one post for lieutenants - sergeants and two posts for sergeants and officers. The above six posts were all covered. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I would also like to say, because you referred to the figure of one hundred, that there is, in fact, no interest in coming from the region. That is why we have put forward a position on Attica, because in fact there was only one person concerned. Everyone's asking to leave Athens for the district. The situation, in terms of staffing in Attica and, above all, very critical services, I would say that it is very difficult and critical. That is why the Headquarters of the new policemen who leave and are now in place in October, places them exclusively in Athens and the new special guards, which we hope to have them in December, believe that in their overwhelming majority, as a whole, they will also be placed in Athens. In particular, however, for the Fhotidis Police Directorate you mentioned, I would like to give some figures.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u31	Minister, do you want to do it in your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u32	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u33	Mr Sarakiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u34	Minister, while at first you referred to a balanced and balanced administration of services, you then referred to and stressed only the needs of Thessaloniki and Athens. In fact, in your closure you stressed that Athens has the greatest needs and those who are hired, whether special guards or in any other way, will be placed in Athens. So I cannot understand where the balanced and balanced distribution emerges from you. You obviously think that the rest of the country is not in need. The Greek Police must only strengthen Athens and Thessaloniki. As far as Fthiotida is concerned, I imagine you understand that you are aware - because the same is happening in the other police directorates - that every month twenty-five policemen are being transported, they are serving because of distractions, whether in Evros or in the islands. So beyond the organic positions there's a shortage of twenty-five people each month. From there on, these people who serve on the islands, but also on Evros you know very well that they receive additional money. Why, in order to save this money, do you not proceed with the transfer process, so that the Greek State can also win, but also the Greek police officers can return to their homes? I also wanted to mention and stress two of the questions which the PLO is asking for, as for what reasons the majority decided to cancel the only improper way of transferring the police personnel and why, while the administration decided to establish new services and when it seconded for their needs, it did not transfer the same number from the board of molecules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u35	Mr Colleague, I have only interrupted the Minister when he started talking about Fontida, and I hope he will now say so, to be fair. Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u36	As far as the issue of transfers is concerned, you know very well that it is based on strict moleculosis and there is no other margin for any other intervention and interference. And I think that, for reasons of impression, we do not need to refer to elements which do not actually correspond to a sensitive issue that is generally relevant to the staff of the Security Councils, especially the Greek Police. It is a conquest of many years and the issue of the introduction to officers' schools and the issue of police officers' placements and so on. You know very well that the placement of young people who will leave the service even in Attica is done on the basis of moleculosis and their order of exit from the school. Therefore, talking about issues which do not correspond to reality, just to create some impressions, I think it is not helpful to discuss them. But let me give two figures on Phthytida. It is - I would say - one of the most favoured addresses at regional level. In officers, her organic power is forty-three and there are forty-seven. Its organic power to lieutenants, sergeants is ninety-one - ninety-one provided for, and eighty-nine are the existing force. To lieutenants, police officers and others, the organic force is three hundred eighty and the existing force is three hundred ninety-three. And the special guards are scheduled to be eighteen, and they're eleven. In total, at organic level, there are five hundred and thirty-two positions and the existing force is five hundred forty. It appears, in other words, that it is one of the best-managed police addresses in the country, in relation to all these problems I mentioned before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Minister. Before we move on, I would like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of seventy-four students and students and five fellow teachers from the Erashmeionian Hellenic-German School of Panagiotou Vossos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We should simply inform the children that there is parliamentary scrutiny here today, where parliamentarians are asking the government and the ministers are answering. We are now continuing with our second question under number 43/24-9-2019 of the First Cycle of the Member of the Larissa Movement of Change, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "It is not possible to supply necessary medicines for oncological and haematological patients at the University General Hospital of Larissa". Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I tabled a timely question, Minister, on 24 September. This question concerned the University Hospital in Larissa, but it is also about San Savva and also about the Rhodes Hospital, and so far this question has been raised by the University Hospital in Larissa. So what has emerged this year, like every year - it is endemic now - is the problem of the inability to supply the necessary medicines to oncological and haematological patients. And these drugs aren't in shortage. The inability to supply drugs is due to the fact that tight budgets in the years of the crisis do not allow supply. So what happens in September? These problems are emerging sharply. Unfortunately, the budgets are sub-chapters up to 1/10 of the budgets for other years, so that the budgets are not sufficient to meet needs by the end of the year. The usual practice followed in the 5th Minister for Thessaly - Central, the shortcomings appeared at least three years - was to extend the matter. How? By signing a first extension for a month, as he did, to his honor. One day after the Director took over, he signed for 2 million euros, but they only arrive for one month. Now we are in the heart of October. And what's going on? Once again, the problem. That is, in October, exactly what we faced in September. Let me remind you before you could answer for the budget that the last half of the treatments took place last night. I mean, people were persecuted from chemo. Avastin by the company 'ROCHE' was lacking, so that today it is being searched for its dose, in view of the reply you will give us. Unfortunately, then, we have a very big problem to deal with. The services at the University Hospital emit sos. We heard the Minister say a few days ago that 52 or 54 million euros will be given - two interpretations exist - to tackle the problem seriously. And we say that, unfortunately, there is still distrust in services, doctors, but mostly in patients. Minister, I am convinced that the competent departments of your Ministry and you personally, the Minister, the State Secretary, the entire political leadership, are well-intentioned and do not just make any kind of financial announcements. But that's not good enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u40	I shall conclude, Mr President. Cancer, who have the experience at least, by contacting him or their close family environment, is a hard war that does not allow for second thoughts, stress and panic. Unfortunately, we are in stress and panic right now. A rapid response from the political leadership is therefore needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u41	Madam Colleague, your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u42	We ask what you will do in this context directly and in view of the fact that chemo is not being done today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. The issues concerning the tumor patients, not only in Larissa, but throughout the country, are at the forefront of the priorities of the current government. After all, we have stressed that as far as the country's governance is concerned. And it seems immediately and with concrete tangible results to the citizens. Let me say that it is no coincidence that within two months we have given a solution to a large issue of cancer patients, facilitating this sensitive category of population. So while until first regarding medications they had to go to the EPOY pharmacies and sit in the tails to take them and go to private clinics to do their treatment, they now go directly to the clinic and find their treatment without adolescence in the tails of shame. In fact, we extend this measure so that medicines for this particular group, but also for other groups - because it is not just cancer patients - can be distributed from both neighborhood pharmacies and home. In our programme speech, we have campaigned to point out that we attach great importance and priority to the management of cancer patients. Because it's not just tumor patients' drugs. There are other things we need to solve. We are preparing concrete actions and solutions, such as anticipation of tumor therapy. As far as Larissa is concerned: both in Larissa and in other hospitals in the country there was really a problem with the credits to medicines. And this problem has been called upon to deal with it because, as you are surely aware, there was no such problem in the first days of September. He appeared after - October, November - in the hospitals of the country. So you realize that we had to act immediately and quickly to restore the proper supply of medicine to hospitals. And that's what we did. And we increased the credit to both Larissa and other regions of the country, and we follow the implementation of the budgets and the flow of drugs weekly. Because we have seen an outbreak of drug expenditure, which is causing us questions, over the last year in particular. Thus, on a regular basis, the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the relevant health regions, will monitor the implementation of the budgets and the distribution of medicines to the recipients. At the same time, we have mapped out all the procedures, because I have to tell you that the problem is also accounting. Because it is not enough for the Ministry of Health to give a medicine, there are then accounting procedures which may delay the delivery of these medicines to hospitals because there is a need for changes in the budgets of the hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u45	Minister, you can use your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u46	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we have approached the whole problem and it is neither this year, until the end of the year, nor the next year, which will have made the system even more rational, nor will there be a lack of access to these treatments for patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Minister. My colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u48	Minister, I don't hear an answer from you. You're giving us no answer. Unfortunately, today you are telling us that you are increasing the budget, that you will follow closely, that you will see computerisation, that it concerns you that the medicine and expenditure are increasing, but that, Mr Minister, we have no answer. Avastin is currently missing from the University Hospital of Larissa and a man today 4.30' at dawn left the hospital and did not receive chemotherapy. This man is cancerous. Do you really think that a cancer patient, one who is in a real vulture that requires strength, support, because it is a battle on trenches, can we also burden him with this stress? What have you done all September, anyway, after the announcements? You say that the government has taken on a great burden - I will agree with you that this is - from the tails of shame. Because others have received from us at least from the PASOK governments - which we have created the ESS, which has streamlined the medicine and so on, which we have reduced expenditure - the SYRIZA government. But I see no speed in what you do. The political leadership has an obligation, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to rationalise the budgets, even in an exceptional manner. You have this possibility to do it within two months. It's not possible for people to leave hospitals. Minister, this is very important. You know I don't do opposition right now, but to give the clothes to a cancer patient and leave at dawn at the hospital, without asking to know what has become of this man and what his fate after it is very important. So let me tell you that if luck is to go to Larissa General Hospital, Avastin doesn't exist there either. I'm telling you before you look into this at the services, because I know you've been talking to the university hospital's lieutenant. So I'll say that, since you didn't tell us. It is with great respect that we see the government at its beginning, but there are some major issues where fast and fast paces are needed. The Minister was in Zappeion last Sunday, and even was exposed - politically, I mean - before thirty-eight thousand people and said he will do everything. It was the race "Race for the cure". He said, in fact, that he fully understands the problem and will make it a priority and with every opportunity he will impose and, in practice, do all that was requested by the cancer patients throughout the country in the next week. Unfortunately, we didn't see that thing. And to speak in your language too, because you are a Ministry of Health but also sporting at the same time: the fourth period is completed - that is what I would say to Mr Kikilia if he were here today - and I think now you are playing in delays, i.e. the rebound can only be with a three-point. If you do not do this, day after day, hour after hour more and more people are added. I spoke to San Savva, Minister, and I tell you very well, and I try to help resolve the problem. Things aren't right at all. What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I think that all this time in the Ministry of Health we have acted quickly and in specific cases and with concrete examples. I mentioned the subject of the tails. Last week we gave a financial injection to the hospitals in the country with 52 million in order to obtain medicines. I told you there were accounting procedures to distribute this money. Indeed, these procedures must be speeded up so that the money can be readily available in hospital budgets. You are referring to a specific case, which unfortunately I do not know and I think no Minister, no political leadership, no government would want any of our fellow citizens to stay without treatment, and that is our objective. And let me answer the issue of speed by telling you that we have acted quickly in this part. I think that's not just a matter of ministries. It's also a matter of administration, it's a matter of people. I think, to the best of my knowledge, that there is no shortage in this country. Therefore, a solution can be found and the individual patient and all other patients can receive the treatment they need. I can assure you, however, that credits are currently available in hospitals. Orders will be made, and all needs for oncological medicinal products will be met by the end of the year. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Minister. Next, the third, with number 59/1-10-2019, is a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Dues and problems at the General Hospital of Xanthi". The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Kontozamanis. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister of Health, our reason and question concerns the General Hospital of Xanthi, which is facing very serious problems, as is all the hospitals in the country. The cause is known. They are the savage cuts in state funding all these years from all the governments and from PASOK formerly and from the New Democracy and SYRIZA, and now again after the government change, from the New Democracy. The cutbacks in state funding are over half of what was given a decade ago. There's probably more. I now come to the question of our question concerning the medical shortages of Xanthi Hospital, a hospital without doctors, I don't know if anyone can call it a hospital. According to the data we have, the current medical staff who holds organic positions has covered 60% of the predicted organic positions, after the scoring in 2012. Not with the organic positions it really needs to work with. By the end of the year four doctors leave because of retirement. A new recruit does not appear on your horizon by your Government unless you tell us today something younger about it. Although we don't have too much hope for that. The orthopedic clinic stays with two auxiliary doctors. You know what it means to work a clinic with two auxiliary doctors, who of course have an end date at their contracts. The average age of doctors at the Hospital of Xanthi is fifty-three years. Thirteen subsidiary doctors cover an important part of the gaps. They do what people can. But in seven of them the term ends, while the sixty-four posts of the skilled were covered are thirty-six. Finally, with these gaps and these shortcomings, the General Hospital of Xanthi gives doctors, grants doctors to fill gaps in the region around eastern Macedonia and Thrace. In the meantime, patients with urologic problems, with ophthalmologics, are not served for OPL topics. Regular medical appointments of certain clinics have very serious problems while operating lists are too delayed. In any case, this hospital operates on the basis of the friendly and heroic efforts of the staff involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u53	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u54	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. The question, Minister, is this: What will you do with the gaps in medical staff in this hospital? It is urgently necessary to increase medical staff - but take care - with permanent and stable work. And of course we'd like you to tell us if you'll finally give more money to both the Xanthi Hospital and all the other hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u55	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Pinheiro, allow me first to make it clear: we are fully aware and aware of the needs of the health system and the situation that we have received. We are well aware that recruitment of permanent staff is an urgent necessity and is the only solution for the sustainability and functionality of both primary care structures and hospitals, namely the whole health system. For the implementation of these we have a concrete plan. Because the shortcomings are not only presented to medical staff, as you mentioned in your question, but there are shortcomings in other staff, both to nurses and to injured and other health professionals. We know that. That is why we are planning a comprehensive policy on human resources in the health system. Because you have rightly pointed out - and we agree on this too - that temporary solutions do not give way to the problem that we are facing, such as doctors. We really want to capture the needs of hospitals through those hospital agencies, which have unfortunately not been updated for some time. Hospital organisations certainly need to redesign, update them, update them, put new skills that medical science and health technology currently offer, so that we can offer better health services, but also improve the quality of these services to the citizen, so that the level of provision is the same at every corner of the territory. As far as the hospital is concerned, because you have also referred to the orthopedic clinic, I would like to say that in the announcements of posts, which have been scheduled for some time - we are planning three more orthopedics for the orthopedic clinic and a total of 14 posts for permanent medical staff. Let me say at this point, however, that the problem is not just to proclaim the positions. These positions must be paid. There must therefore also be a demand for these positions, but the procedures must be made quickly. So, as far as the demand for these posts is concerned, we need to bring the wave of Brain Drain to the outside, because unfortunately the Greek state is training doctors and these doctors are leaving abroad. They must return to the country and meet the needs of the National Health System. We must also give incentives so that doctors can go to remote and barren areas in the country. Of course, these crises must take place in a very short time. And this is the next step for the Ministry of Health. Because you are well aware that a crisis can take up to two years. You will soon see that we will be able to complete these crises in a very short time. We also proceed to procedures for the proclamation of positions of nursing staff and staff in intensive care units, where there is a bleeding and, of course, we move on to additional allocation of posts from the recruitment we have announced to nurses and other staff. As far as funding is concerned, I think I was clear in my answer and in the previous question. We're not leaving the hospital without money. Of course, in this context, you realise that the moves we are making are not unilateral, but are part of an overall plan to upgrade the health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u57	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u58	The conclusion that comes from your reply to the Xanthi Hospital is that his condition will remain, at best, as it is at the moment, if it does not get worse, after the expected retirements and departures not only of the medical staff, but also of the hospital’s nursing and technical staff. Because it is not enough, you know, a Minister to come here to the House and say he is fully aware of health problems or the Xanthi Hospital. So what? What are you going to do about it? You're hiring? You said you would make a call for medical staff who would be inside and two or three doctors of orthopaedics and that you would make a notice for medical staff. Do you know how many times we've heard it here from ministerial and prime minister's lips in this Chamber to such questions? It's the last answer. The question, Minister, is: When will these notices be made? Tell us specifically when they'll be hired. Is it going to be December? Is he going to be the Genarus? Will it be February? But tell us in particular, not generally and vaguely: 'We will be hiring'. Now, we have asked you about the permanent and stable work which you, as you said, are supporting and supporting. All right, we have made you and the previous government a very simple proposal, Minister. Permanentize the auxiliary doctors, all the subsidiary staff he serves today. In short - and I am now addressing the government as a whole - all contract staff in the public sector. It is an elementary, a first measure to improve the situation a little. You will, of course, tell me that you are blocked by the Constitution. You know, Minister, a constitutional review is now being made of your party, the New Democracy, like SYRIZA, like KINAL, like all other parties, in this proposal from the JRC. You rejected it because you agree to the status of permanent and flexible work. The rest are wishful and the well-known friendly hits on the back. Indeed, Minister, because I am sure you are following the announcements from doctors' associations, the picture we have is that in the next few months there will be thousands of subsidiary and subsidiary contracts. What's gonna happen? How will hospitals function after these doctors leave without these contracts being renewed? What about the evolving pensions - logical is - doctors and managers from all the hospitals in the country? How will these hospitals work? You say: 'We will not leave them without funding'. Good, in particular, what are you going to do? Because what we know is that the hospitals - and I will say it a little below - are completely self-financed agencies. In any case, health units, Minister, are well known to everyone that they are at the very limit of their operation at the moment. And I said the example of the Xanthi Hospital orthopaedic clinic. With two doctors, an orthopedic clinic in a big city, doing 15 days a month on duty? And that's what you say it's health care for the people? The question arises as follows, Minister: Who benefited from this decline, deterioration, the residual function of public health establishments, hospitals in particular? What will a man do with a urology problem with an ORL problem or an ophthalmology that lives in Xanthi and the surrounding area? Is he going to Kavala? Is he going to Komotini? Alexandroupolis? They're in trouble, too. Is he going to a private person? And if he doesn't have any money, where's he going? So here's who's benefiting. Here, this field that leaves the so-called public health system free who makes use of it. Let us not talk, of course, about the issue of prevention where I think that over time all governments have done nothing at all. The prevention should start a serious health system. In any case, we should not talk about ceilings in hospitals, such as the Hippocrates. Yesterday the ceiling fell, Minister, in a hospital room and thankfully the workers were gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Comrade, please. You've reached five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u60	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I say only a few examples of where subfunding can lead to hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, I have spoken about recruitment and I have been clear that recruitment must be carried out, but the gaps must be covered, but it is not just enough to proclaim these posts, it must also be paid and they must be paid soon. You asked me for a specific timetable. I believe that, in the procedures that we are now going to implement, we will be able to have in very short a time the notices of vacancies so that they can be covered. We recognize the problem with the auxiliary doctors you mentioned. In fact, at the end of November, some four hundred subsidiary contracts expire and we also have other categories of health professionals serving in the system and ending the contracts in the next few years. We are doing concerted actions and efforts to keep people in the health system and to see how we can manage the issue with the end of the contracts of subsidiary doctors. You have raised other issues in your dentext which do not concern the question. You said about the ceilings that fall, etc. I told you at the outset that we are fully aware of the situation we have received. We have captured the situation, which the previous administrations of the previous government have described in the hospitals of the country. I think that in a very short time we have taken the necessary steps - particularly at financial level - so that the health system does not collapse. We are now in the process of stabilising it so that, by applying modern management tools and financial tools, we can strengthen it financially and design better and more health services in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the fourth under No 45/25-9-2019 topical question of the Second Cycle of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kaminis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Publication of sites for supervised use". Mr. Contozamanis will answer. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I would honestly expect Mr. Kikilias to be here, the Minister. The Prime Minister himself has honoured us today with his presence, saying that he will now be tactical in his appearances for the Prime Minister's time and we have the Minister of Health to be absent on a very crucial issue, particularly an issue concerning the capital, Athens, particularly its centre, which is also the region in which he is elected. It would also be a matter of consistency with its electors. What do I mean? In recent years, the phenomenon of public use and trafficking in drugs has been unbearable. It's the last stage of a user making public use, making his injection public. This does not only create nuisance, but is dangerous to him and his health and to public health. There are other complementary ways of dealing with drugs: the dry programme of the CECHA, the substitutes to the OKANA. Modern trend is the supervised use sites for people who have reached the last stage of use. The previous government legislated it by a majority of the New Democracy. Two hundred and twenty-nine Members voted for Law 4600 and Article 91 containing the authorizing provision for the creation of the premises. A joint ministerial decision on the creation of the sites was adopted one month before the elections. Is the Secretary-General prepared to set up surveillance facilities? Is there a certain timeframe? Have they been contacted by the CECH, OKANA, psychiatric treatments, as provided by the law, which will assume the responsibility of operating these premises? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u65	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kamine, first of all, I would like to say that the Minister is not here today because of an unreserved service obligation. You know that he is currently meeting with the board of directors of the KETHA. But there are other obligations. I think you're downgrading the State Secretary's role in the operation of the government. The political leadership of each ministry is united. The Minister and the State Secretary express both the Ministry and the functioning of the Government. Therefore, either the Minister or the State Secretary, the answers they give are specific, uniform, themselves and express the attitude and opinion of the Ministry of Health. As far as your question is concerned, I answer the following question. Our service has already drawn up a draft ministerial decision on the subject: 'Authorisation of a supervised use site'. This concerns the Anti-Drugs Agency, pursuant to a ministerial decision concerning the terms and conditions for the establishment and operation of supervised and staffing, housing and creation of, keeping and operating the register of receiving health services and other details. It is therefore a matter of days in order to complete this administrative procedure and adopt the relevant Ministerial Decision. I therefore reply to your question that the draft ministerial decision is also in a process of extradition and we are consistent with the ministerial decision providing for the terms and conditions of the surveillance sites. After all, the OKANA who has requested an application for an authorisation for a supervised use site has successfully operated an appropriate space in the past. You remember the project "Ulysses" in October 2013 until June 2014. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. I have not heard a specific timetable for the creation of spaces. Let me say it's an extremely urgent phenomenon. There is, in fact, no modern big city in Europe that has not built these spaces, for it is precisely because the operation of these spaces is aimed at that group of users for whom the last shelter is available. Let me say that these spaces are not just spaces of use. This use is done under the supervision of a doctor, there is psychosocial support, there are structures for reintegrating users, there is an entire environment that welcomes the user and helps him to disable. But here this method is working complementaryly, as I have said, in both dry and substitute methods. The dry method is mainly used as a vehicle for the ERCF. And unfortunately, in the last few days, we have seen the CTE actually transform. By Act of Legislative Enforcement which the Government intends to bring here in order to sanction the CSTD is being state-owned. The CIRR is a legal person governed by private law, rarely a successful private-law legal person who successfully operates in public. He runs himself. It is surrounded with confidence by the associations of users' parents. Let me give you a few figures. It operates in twenty-nine cities and nineteen penitentiaries. They shall offer their services in a non-profit-making manner to the Chairman and members of the Board of Directors. Seven out of ten users going to the CECH after five years come clean. It is a unique case of an entity that has good management of its finances. And what do we see now? First of all, we see the government coming, a liberal government, being supposed to be stacking a private body completely successful, and secondly, by an unacceptable process through an act of legislation. Let me remind you that legislative acts are adopted in exceptional cases, says the Constitution, for exceptional and unforeseen circumstances. The House has been downgraded to an unbearable level in recent years by these methods. What is the unforeseen and exceptional need for the adoption of an act of legislative content, which makes the JET? Why are you actually going to put in the funnel of the state a fully successful private organisation with such a project? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u69	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kamine, with regard to the topical question and to what is going on with supervised sites, the state is not here to pass a cheque. Any person applying to be granted a permit for a supervised area, the State shall examine it and issue the corresponding permit. That is what is happening in this case. I told you that the licence requested by the OECD is at the stage of completion, so we are basically at the end of a formal administrative procedure. Allow me now just to say a word about the ERCF, because it is not about the timely question. For the reflection you have developed, the state-funded JET...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u71	Part of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u72	...and ought the state to have a role and know where the money goes, because it's the Greek taxpayer's money. Let me tell you, as far as the Board of Directors and the self-government of the CECE is concerned, that we are strengthening the self-government of the CECE by this act that we have voted on. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u73	Thank you. We continue with the first with number 409/28-8-2019 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Argolidis of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Great concern and reflection about the spread of the virus of the Western Nile". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are well aware that the Western Nile virus is mainly transmitted by stingings of infected mosquitoes. The main tank of the virus in nature is mainly wild birds, from which mosquitoes are contaminated. People who are most infected remain asymptomatic. Only one 20% have viral support symptoms, while 1% have severe manifestations from the central nervous system, such as meningitis, encephalitis or relaxed paralysis. These events usually occur in elderly people or persons who are immunocompromised and generally those who have chronic underlying illnesses. In our country, too many cases have been recorded since 2010. I would like to mention to you that, in the three years 2017-2019, we had a number of cases. In 2018, in particular, the cases were three hundred sixteen, of which fifty ended, while in 2019 we have two hundred thirteen cases of which twenty-eight ended. Minister, as you can see, this is a serious matter of public health and I think that both his and his epidemiological surveillance is important. I would also like to point out that it is a serious matter of individual protection measures to be taken by every citizen in this country. So the state must fight prevention, because we should rather prevent it from healing. I believe that there must be increased vigilance by all the stakeholders, the Ministry through EGE, regions and municipalities. Mosquito programmes are being prepared in all regions and municipalities, but I note that the problem remains a fact which means that something is wrong. So I ask you what is the short-term and what your long-term planning is about dealing with this phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, I am not going to go into scientific matters, because you have developed them very well in the Western Nile virus. Now I think we all know why? Because it is a fact that the Western Nile virus is now established in Europe and enduring in our country, and we should learn to live with it. Indeed, there are actions and actions on the part of the Ministry of Health, but also by the joint ministries, such as the Ministry of Interior or the regions of the country. There are both concrete actions and circular versions. But I keep saying that it is not enough to issue a circular or a ministerial decision. In fact, the Western Nile virus and other similar situations programs should be monitored, so that we know they are executed in full. Of course, there is also the very important issue concerning epidemiological surveillance, in order to be consistent in recording cases and incidents. I think that in our country over the last few years, because the Western Nile virus has now entered into our daily life a certain period of time every year, it has now given us the necessary weapons to better deal with the problem and we now have the experience so that we can move further. In reply to what you said, therefore, the measures we are taking are concrete and not just through the Ministry of Health but also with the cooperation of the relevant ministries. In fact, you are well aware that at a meeting convened by the Minister of Health these issues were raised and at an interministerial level it was decided that there should be coordination in terms of dealing with them. Of course, because you refer to an integrated plan for the prevention of the Western Nile virus, I will inform you - perhaps you know - that there is the national plan 'MEROPH' to the Ministry of Health, which concerns other situations and crises of communicable diseases and can also be applied in the case of the Western Nile virus. Be sure that in emergencies these programmes are developed as they should be, but even in times of crisis, because, as I have said, we will live with the Neil virus in the coming years. We will therefore be able to deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I listened carefully. I would just like to point out two, three more things. What are these? First of all, it is the resources. The resources, as far as I know, come out of the Interior Ministry. The issue is how much money we should use for the programmes, and whether there should be studies, recording, epidemiological observation of this whole phenomenon, so that the relevant amounts can also come out and not see phenomena where regions do not get enough money to fight mosquitoes. One is that. The second big issue, in my view, is how we make the competitions for the fight against mosquitoes. I think it should be done in three years' time. I say this because, firstly, we are getting away with bureaucracy in the multiple competitions that are taking place every year and, secondly, there must be an ongoing programme, because in winter there are outbreaks of mosquitoes which are not treated if you have a programme, because, as you know, the programme ends at the end of November and there are three - four months left uncovered. So there we should focus, namely, on having a competition for three years, so that there can also be spraying during periods which are not the phenomenon of exacerbation in order to deal with residues, because these are the ones that give the first month that mosquitoes will appear in the new generation and there, if we do not, the problem will be greater. Another point I would like to make to you - and it is serious because I have dealt with it at some point in the Peloponnese Region - is an increase in migration flows. Many of the immigrants from countries where malaria occurs - I leave the Western Nile virus - are carriers. The programme for the fight against mosquitos should also provide a greater basis for dealing with this problem. Let us see where immigrants are going to stay, that is to say, where there are outbreaks, to fight properly. And a third. There should be cooperation with regard to regions and municipalities. The city can't make a program for its urban environment. Regions and municipalities should operate coordinatedly under the supervision of the EGE and give an account. I know there are procedures, but these procedures should be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u79	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, you have pointed out before, and now - and you are right to point it out - the issue of epidemiological surveillance and I think that in this case the authorities of the country are operating very well and it is very important to have information on epidemiological surveillance and at times other than the outbreak of the Western Nile virus. You should also be aware that there are committees of experts throughout the year, such as the Committee on the Prevention and Management of Tropical Diseases of the Ministry of Health, a working group on the definition of affected areas and so on, which systematically meet and, where appropriate, decide as soon as possible on the actions and actions to be taken in order to address the issue. And, of course, we must also say that we are in constant cooperation with the respective foreign centres and bodies such as the European Centre for the Prevention of Infections. The Ministry of Health, as I have told you, by mandate of the Minister for Health, has recommended the interministerial group so that all the co-legislative ministries sit down and with the experience that has accumulated over the years to be able to deal with this issue. Because you have quite rightly said about the regions as well - we need to know the mosquito programmes and any other programmes and we need to coordinate the regions of the competent services. It is a very important matter, which you refer to in terms of supplies. And I think there is the accumulated knowledge right now, so that we can draw up an integrated Nile virus management programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u81	We'll thank the Minister. The cycle of current questions to the Ministry of Health has been completed. We will continue with the third with number 58-1-10-2019 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "The decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on tsipouro - tsikoudia". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Besiropoulos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you are aware of the judgment of 11 July of the Court of Justice of the European Union threatening to impose sanctions on Greece if it does not comply with Directives 92/83 and 92/84 on the taxation of tick and tick. Where will it lead to such compliance with the instructions? It will either lead to the unification of taxation paid by small producers of ticks and ticks or to their eighteen-folding. Today you are well aware that the small cotton growers and two-day distillers, the vineyard growers, who are over thirty thousand and who are licensed for distillation and are mostly small vineyard growers, pay a tax of 0.59 cents a kilo. If the interim decision is in force, they will have to pay a tax of EUR 5.1 per kilo or a different EUR 10.2 per kilo. You understand very well that this will lead them to mass disengagement. Why is that so? It is precisely because the European Court of Justice and the European Commission, with the directives, once again prove that it is interested in satisfying and protecting the interests of multinationals, the interests of monopolistic groups. From this point of view, it is clear that in this way it violently dismisses the small producers of winegrowers and distillers. It is an issue that really has the social and cultural dimension and its economic dimension, because you understand very well what tick means for the province and whether it will reach the same price of taxation as scotch, which, in our opinion, is unacceptable. That is why we are saying that the Government will allow the same regime this year to continue with last year with the wine growers and small distillers, with the same tax as the 0.59 cent, and this year to put their case before them - and this period is already beginning - and not to apply the court' s decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u83	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, in your question you raise a real problem, which concerns not only us as a government, but also the systematic and small distilleries of ticks and ticks. As you know, in Greece in the tsipouro and in the tsikoudia produced by the distillation undertakings, the so-called ‘systemic distillers’, a rate of excise duty has been established, reduced by 50% compared to the normal national rate, while alcoholic beverages imported from other Member States are subject to the standard rate of excise duty. It was and remains reasonable why this reduced rate should be introduced. However, the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 11 July 2019, as you mentioned earlier, in which the reduced tax rates in tick and tick, in particular Council Directive 92/83/EEC of 19 October 1992, are found to be contrary to Union law. The Court of Justice of the European Union held that Greek legislation, namely Law 2960/2001, which provides for the application of a reduced rate of excise duty on ticks and ticks produced by distillation undertakings and a significantly reduced rate of excise duty on ticks and ticks produced by small distillers, is contrary to Union law. I must stress that this decision does not impose any financial sanctions against Greece, but only a compliance obligation if there is no compliance with financial penalties. For us, however, the major one was that, with this decision, all producers of these two traditional products are being hit and brought to a full dead end. If this decision is implemented immediately, the systematic and also the two-day distillers will be called upon to pay an increase of tax as compared to the existing ones, resulting in a dead end to a number of small producers operating in the Greek province. And that's where the burden falls on us and we're not going to stand awkward. The Minister of Finance has already sent to the European Commission a letter requesting the granting of a deadline for the compliance of Greek legislation by the end of the next distillate period, that is until 31 August 2021, because, as you may know, the apostate period begins on 1 August and ends on 31 July of the following year. But our argument with the institutions of the European Union is solid. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, give me two minutes, because this is very important. We stressed the impossibility of direct compliance both during the current distillation period and during the next period, for the simple reason that the relevant contracts for raw materials - sheaths - purchased by systematic distillers and then distilled to produce ticks or ticks have already been concluded. These contracts have been concluded given the reduced rate of excise duty in force by 50% against the normal rate to be paid in the event of direct compliance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, thereby facing serious financial difficulties, even risking the closure of their business definitively, with the result that growth and employment in economically vulnerable areas already affected by the economic crisis will be achieved. The same applies, however, to small distillers. The logic says that a different rate of tax cannot be applied to the distillation product in the middle of the current period, since the excise duty is paid at the time of issue of a distillation licence and in any event before the product is placed on the final consumption. So our arguments are based and we expect the institutions of the European Union to respond. Of course, our aim is not only to suspend the implementation of the decision, but to revise this European directive, to give a permanent, sustainable and acceptable solution to the problem. On this issue, Mr President, I shall refer to my denunciation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u85	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you spoke of the letter sent by the Minister of Economy to the European Commission for two years. Of course, that's not all. And we say that because, what if we refuse? Therefore, a more comprehensive political decision is needed by the Greek Government to protect these small producers, distillers and vine growers from these directives which lead them to mass, violent extinction and extinction. What's that gonna do? Change of land use, concentration of land on less and less hands and will work for the benefit of large businesses, domestics and foreigners involved in products that have alcohol means. Secondly, this issue must not be seen simply from its budgetary perspective, namely resources and revenue to the state and budgetary balance. The third element is that this cannot be a criterion of fair or unfair treatment, because, of course, in different social groups, these small distillers and in different companies, domestic and foreign, with whiskey and other alcoholic drinks, are addressed. It is therefore a challenge for the European Union and the European Court of Justice to speak of a fair treatment when we talk about people who put a pot in order to be able to meet their own needs and needs of a small region, village or neighborhood. In this respect, therefore, the government needs to go against the current because it will have tragic consequences, economic, social and cultural, in the countryside of Greece, where tsipouro and tsikoudia are produced.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u87	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u88	Mr Colleague, I know your party's standing positions on the European Union. I respect them, but I do not agree with them, as does the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. The question, as I said before, is not only to get a time-limit for the application of this decision, which will be disastrous for systemics, but also for small distillers of tsipuro and tsipudia. Our aim is to revise this Directive 92/83/EEC, on which the contested decision was based. What I tell you is not a report of ideas or our desires. It is true, after the review process started on May 25, 2018 and Greece participates actively and actively. What are we seeking and striving to ensure? It is quite simply that a reduced rate of excise duty should be introduced, in the context of the revision of the directive, for both ticks and ticks of the systemic and the distillation product of the small distilleries of the so-called 'dimers'. We have legal arguments. One of these is the sixth recital in the preamble to Directive 92/83, which states that ‘Member States may apply reduced rates of excise duty or exemptions for certain products of a regional or traditional character’. Our aim is therefore to have an absolute and explicit wording for this through the revision of this directive. The process of revising the directive has already begun. There have been extensive consultations between the Member States throughout this period and despite the fact that a large percentage of agreement has already been reached on the majority of the provisions under review in the directive, the revision process has not been completed and is expected to continue by the current Finnish and next Croatian Presidency. I'd say the effort we're doing is on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the sixth question under number 63/1-10-2019 of the second question of the Member of the Ilias Movement of Change by Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The realignment of the objective values leads to a great increase in the tax burden for the majority of the owners of the Prefecture of Ilias and the Greek region". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the latest information says that the date with the institutions has not gone so well, and a budget gap has been identified, which is identified by some as 1 billion - others are bringing it up to 1.5 billion - questioning, in essence, many of the Prime Minister's announced tax evasion in Thessaloniki. Of course you appear reassuring, because you expect revenues of EUR 500 million - perhaps more - from the integration of seven and a half thousand regions into the objective system for determining real estate values. Already the two thousand have joined and another five and a half thousand are expected to join by the first quarter of 2020. Of course, the increase in objective values relates mainly to regions in the region, such as Elias, Imathia, from where you come from, people's areas and areas where a low-charge system is generally applied for owners. In fact, with valid notarial and broker offices, the increase in total taxation can also reach 80%, and in some cases the burden for some owners can also be doubled. Characteristics, the increase in real estate related to and incorporated into the objective system or agricultural parcels or out-of-plan property will be truly unthinkable. And, of course, there can also be an additional tax on HISPIA. There are therefore two consequences: The first is that in practice the reduction of HPAI that was voted on two months ago with cross-party consent by Parliament and the second impact is that the increase in objective values will create and lure an increase in other taxes relating to real estate, such as - for example - the taxes on real estate transfer, distribution, usage, exchange - land combination, property transfer fees, property registration fees, property registration fees, substantiated housing income, legacy taxes and many other taxes I would like to mention to them. So since I am not going to ask you whether you intend to fill the financial gap with the increase in the objective values, because it is clear that this will be done, I would like to ask you whether you intend to change the system of determining the objective values and the value of the property, taking into account the objections of the sworn-out valuers who have already been formulated for over a year and a half, and, of course, whether this is not the case, how you will prevent the excessive taxation that will now be borne by the vast majority of owners of property, particularly in the regions of the region and in the populace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u91	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, your question raises an issue that we, at least, are not concerned with now, but it has dealt with us before we take responsibility for the governance of the country. The introduction of the objectively defined system of determination of the value of immovable property under Article 41 of Law 1249/1982 was the starting point for the determination of the taxable value of immovable property with any cause for tax justice and transparency. I imagine that you too agree with this principle, but also with the need to harmonise the objective values with commercial values in a uniform way by region or category of property, in order to respect the principle of tax justice and without disturbing the functioning of the market. In this direction, for all the off-site city or settlement boundaries, a starting value has been set for the purposes of calculating the taxable value of immovable property, while for the in-project city or settlement boundaries the inclusion of new areas into the system since 1985, which has been the first time in force, is done in part. The last expansion of the system took place on 3-1-2011, when four thousand four hundred eighty-nine areas outside the town plan or settlement boundaries, located in twenty-five counties of the country, were integrated, and the twenty-five out of the fifty-one counties of the country were fully covered. Of course, the aim is to have an objective, reliable and fair definition of the value of real estate throughout the country. In fact, there is a Memorandum of Understanding to Re-adjust the objective values that the SYRIZA government has inherited to us. I would remind you that this obligation was within the prerequisites of the third assessment, but it was never fulfilled. We were all aware of this before we took over the country's governance. We had two choices. The first was to await the formation of the new objective values and then to carry out the reduction of the ENPI. The second option was to proceed directly to the reduction of HPAI, so that Greek citizens could get cleansing with reduced taxes for the first time, and that is what we did. Why? Because it had to be done. Why did it have to be done? Because there is overtaxation of real estate in Greece. Our country is fourth in Europe after Britain, France and Luxembourg as regards the level of taxes on immovable property. And we are talking about countries with far higher GDP than Greece. The reduction therefore had to be made. We could not expect intervention after adjusting the objective values. But I would like you to know - and this is a clear message - that if our government finds a higher burden after the realignment of the objective values, it will proceed to further intervention to reduce the HPAI. From there on, I have to tell you that objective values are not the static size. On the other hand, they are changed, modified and adapted to the conditions prevailing in the real estate market each time. By adjusting the objective values, it is an opportunity to review and improve prices where necessary. We must all know that the adjustment does not mean in any case an increase in prices, which also means a reduction where it is imposed. The adjustment of the objective values, even if it was not a Memorandum of Understanding, had to be done for reasons of social and tax justice. Our aim is to do this in rational terms and to extend the system of determining objective values to the whole territory. The other issues you raise, I'll answer my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u93	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I know that you are one of the most expert on taxation, and that is why I think it is a good thing that you are here today and answer that question. As you quite rightly said, indexing of objective values is already a commitment from the third rescue programme, which, through time-strengthening, the previous government has transferred it to you and today is a prerequisite for the fourth memorandum of assessment. I have asked you a number of often questions, but to which I think you have not answered them sufficiently. What I mean by that: You did not answer me if you intend to change the way in which it has been decided today to identify the system of objective values, because - I repeat - there were certain differences and objections from the sworn valuers. For example, a criterion that has been taken into account in the system of determination is the areas in the Airbnb area, where they consider, because it is precisely because there is increased demand because of tourism now, that this will be in its biennial time without taking into account that at some point it can be changed while remaining high objective values. Secondly, you did not tell me what the government will do with the other taxes - more than ten, I mentioned to you by name some, I could say others - who are sympathetic to changing the objective values. It is not only the ENPIA, which will also be changed. It is also a series of taxes, which, with the increase of the objective, are increasing proportionately and which are excessively burdened by the owners. I repeat that, for the parcels and non-projects, I do not know whether there is a credit institution that can today possibly be directed to borrow, Mr Minister, so that they can fulfil the obligations that will be caused by what you have in such neutrality today that it will be a process that must be completed. I do not know whether it can be satisfied or whether we will go to new regulations of a hundred and twenty instalments and new debtors precisely to increase this tax. I think it will have to be very soon, as this will be completed in the first quarter of 2020 - and this is your commitment, it is your government's commitment to the institutions - so in less than a semester now, the rampant will come with the new tax on Greek property owners, tell the Greek people what you will do to limit the charge that will come legally to the owners. And, of course, with regard to all this - as you are present - which we see is being done in relation to the country's financial data estimates, you can tell us whether you are sure that you will implement everything that Mr Mitsotakis has announced at the IGC and that concerns seventeen measures of tax evasion. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, the process is over with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u96	Mr Katrin, I would like from the Step of the House to state in the most unequivocal way that the services of the Ministry of Finance will be ready to adapt to the spirit and the need to reduce the tax burden. It is not going to be ratified in practical terms and the reduction that took place in September. I would like to point out that the reductions in HPAI concern the supplementary tax. From there on, I would like to refer to taxes linked to property and to say that there will be a similar planning to reduce them, depending on the data that will result from the adjustment of the objective values. However, much more, we have already announced and will implement important interventions linked to the reduction of the tax burden on real estate, such as: Firstly, the suspension of VAT on building activities for three years. Secondly, the suspension of the profit tax on real estate sales, also for three years, and the zero review in the fourth year. In all of this you should add the tax rebate, equal to 40% of expenditure, for energy, operational or aesthetic upgrading of buildings. Mr Katrin, we also have the same concern with you about the reliability, accuracy and effectiveness of the system and how the objective values of the property are determined. I would remind you that the new system was imposed by an amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Government last December and has vulnerabilities. In fact, there is no definition of an independent and imprecise system. There are certified assessors, but at the same time there is also the possibility of intervention by the Ministry of Finance, which means that the proposals of the certified assessors do not bind the Minister concerned and can change them properly. We want there to be a truly incomprehensible system for determining objective values, without political intervention. In this direction we are planning to reform the system, through spatial expansion, technological modernisation and strengthening objectivity, so as to make taxation on real estate more effective and socially fair. This can be done by using an electronic database, which will record trends and prices on the commercial real estate market, in order that on this basis there is an accurate and, above all, a fair matching of objective values. Citizens must be sure that the government's will and determination to reduce property taxes has not changed, but is not going to change! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Minister. We'll continue with some announcements. The Ministers for Culture and Sport, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection and Justice tabled a draft law on 3-10-2019: "Following the exchange of financial communications of an agreement to extend the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on the imposition of import restrictions on categories of archaeological and Byzantine ecclesiastical material up to the 15th century C.E. of the Hellenic Republic. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group and the MPs of his party tabled on 3-10-2019 a proposal for a law: "Decree of impunity - Facilitating the exercise of the electoral right of Greek and Greek voters". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directives 2016/797, 2016/798 and 2016/2370 of the European Parliament and of the Council and other provisions’. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question report to the House on Monday, 7 October 2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Georgios Katrougalou to the Foreign Minister on 'Do not be lost, because of inertia and bilingualism, the promotion of the national interests of the Prespecies Agreement'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 46/25-9-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: "Direct actions for the Music Gymnasium in Cavoussi Lassithi, which was closed before he even opened". 3. The Question No 57/1-10-2019 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The new engineering school of the University of Peloponnese based in Patras". 4. The Question No 50/1-10-2019 by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Association and reintroduction into key positions of two executives at the Ministry of Culture and Sport". B. PERSONS Second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 55/1-10-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on "Actions of the Greek side following the private announcement on German compensation". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question, under number 56/1-10-2019, by MP I Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christoforou Vernardakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “Intellectual rights — authorisation of a new collective management organisation “COMMUNICATION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICES”. That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-04-S1-commons.u98	With the agreement of the House at 13.06. the sitting on Monday, 7 October 2019, at 18.00, is closed on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
