ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the House is convened and the first formal sitting of the First Chamber of Parliament is opened. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Mr Evangelos Liakos and Mr Konstantinos Kyanakis and Mr SYRIZA Mr Marios Katsis and Mr Konstantinos Konstantinos are invited to the Bureau for his assistance in accordance with Rule 1 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I would ask that they understand their positions in the Bureau of the President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the Presidential Decree number 56/2019, which will be tabled in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-17-S1-commons.u2	I also have the honour to announce to the House the letters from the Prime Minister and the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups on the choice of the Parliamentary Chamber, which will be tabled in the Minutes and which are as follows: The Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, by letter to the President of the Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsi, announced that he chose to elect his election in the district of the B2 West Athens instead of the elections of the Prefecture of Achaia and 2 Piraeus. The Head of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, by letter to the President of Parliament, Nikolaos Voutsi, informs that he chooses his election in the district of Achaia instead of the constituencies of the First East Attica and Larisa. The President of the Change Movement Parliament's Group, Mr Fotini Gennimata, by letter to the President of the Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsi, informs that she chooses to elect her election in the district of North Athens rather than in the constituency of Heraklion. The Secretary-General and President of the Group of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece Dimitrios Koutsoubas by letter to the President of the Parliament Mr Nikolaos Voutsi informs us that he chooses his election in the district of the B2 West Sector of Athens instead of the 1st Electoral Region of Thessaloniki. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, by letter to the President of the Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsi, informs us that he chooses his election in the constituency of Larissa instead of the 1st Thessaloniki Electoral Region. The Secretary and Chairman of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, Mr.Giannis Varoufakis, by letter to the President of the Parliament, Mr. Nikolaos Voutsi, informs that he chooses his election in the 1st Thessaloniki constituency instead of the 2nd Piraeus Electoral Region and the Heraklion Prefecture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-17-S1-commons.u3	I inform you that after Sanctuation the oath laid down in Article 59 will follow, then the Koran oath and finally the political oath. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, following the completion of the oath procedure, will be directed to room 51 of the ground floor for the signature of the Observation Protocol and the receipt of an information file. Without signature, the oath procedure is not completed. Please begged that Evangelos Liakos be accompanied by the Makarios Archbishop of Athens and Passis Greece Mr. Hirinos and the accompaniments of that Sacred Sacred Session in the Chamber, in order to celebrate the Sanctuation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-17-S1-commons.u4	I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to raise their right hand, joining the thumb, the marker and the finger, to give the oath laid down in Article 59 of the Constitution. Please repeat the oath. [[The interim President, George Bored standing in the Chair, recitees the following oath, repeated by all Members, other than those belonging to the Moslem Religion and those wishing to give the political oath.]] "I swear in the name of the Holy and Omousiasias and Indivisible Trinity to be loyal to the Fatherland and the democratic city, to obey the Constitution and the laws and to fulfill conscientiously my duties." They're worthy! [[The sworn MPs are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Insert the page. 15a]] Please begged that the provisional Secretary Evangelos Liakos proceeds with the Makarios Archbishop of Athens and Pasis Greece, Mr. Hieronynos, and the accompaniments to him of the Continental Holy Synod. [[This is where the Makariot Archbishop of Athens and all Greece, Mr. Jeronyos, and the accompaniments of this Continental Holy Synod leave the Chamber.]] Please beg the honourable Members who belong to the Mohammedan religion to come and give the oath laid down in the Constitution on the Koran. Please, ladies and gentlemen, repeat the oath. "I swear in the name of Almighty God and his only Prophet, who is Muhammad, to be loyal to the Fatherland and the democratic city, to obey the Constitution and the laws and to be conscientious to my duties." They're worthy! With your consent, I would ask the ladies and gentlemen who wish to give the political oath to rise. Please, ladies and gentlemen, repeat the oath. [[The interim President, George Bored standing in the Chair, recitees the following oath, which is repeated by those Members who wish to take the political oath.]] "I assure my honor and conscience that I will be faithful in my homeland and democratic city, I will obey the Constitution and the laws, and I will be conscientiously fulfilling my duties." They're worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-17-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-17-S1-commons.u6	The House granted the authorisation requested. As I said before, please beg the ladies and gentlemen, after the end of the sitting, to go to room 51 on the ground floor for the signature of the vowing protocol and the receipt of the information file. Without signature, the oath procedure is not completed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
