ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 174-2019 authorisation, the minutes of its PRB meeting of Wednesday 17 April 2019 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Greek Development Bank and the attraction of strategic investment and other provisions", as well as to the decision of the Greek Parliament on the proposal of the President of the Parliament "to claim German debts", in accordance with Rule 51(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The following topical and urgent questions will not be discussed in today's topical and urgent debate. The first question under number 487/15-4-2019, first question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Building a specific plan and timetable to address the problems of the Eastern Attica affected by the fire of 23 and 24 July", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The competent ministries are those of the domestic, environment and energy and finance. The first, with number 490/16-4-2019, topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Problems of workers at the Centre for the Welfare of Central Macedonia" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Deputy Minister, Theanos Fotou, due to a workload. The fourth under number 280/17-1-2019 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: “The administration of the Aegean is promoting the government”, will not be discussed. The fifth under number 330/4-2-2019 topical question by the Independent MEP, Evia Nikolaos Michou, on the subject: “Continuance of persecution of Greek minority members in Albania”, will not be discussed. For all the above, there is also a letter from the Secretariat of the Government. So we begin with the third debate under number 489/16-4-2019 on the first cycle of the F Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Damage due to quartzing in the Municipality of Tyrnavos". The Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Vassiliou. Mr President, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The question concerns damage caused by quarries in the wider area of the Municipality of Tirnavos. The intense weather phenomena that prevailed last Saturday 13-4-2019, such as heavy quartzing and rainfall at the same time, in the region, have affected thousands of acres of trees and other crops, thus being destroyed. Two days ago, there was a new wave of rain and quartz that might have destroyed what had been left of the first stage of bad weather. Of course, this concerns a wider area of the Municipality of Tirnavos, villages such as Damasi, Trendra, Platanoulia, Vineyard, etc. So the question to the Minister, Mr President, is: First, the ELGA directly goes on to record the disaster and, of course, to compensate farmers for 100% of the disaster. Until this process is completed - because experience shows that there are huge delays until we get to the point of being compensated, what is being compensated, and I say it in general, I do not say it specifically for this - state funding must therefore be provided to the affected farmers in the villages of the Tyrnavos affected, because they are having to deal with survival. Without harvest, without income, how will they meet their obligations? On the one hand, how will they respond to the issues of their everyday life and survival, and on the other - the third question - how will they respond to insurance contributions, loan instalments and the ravages paid by the affected, farmers in general, but, more and more, by the farmers affected? Because there will also be growing costs requirements. As soon as they have no revenue, of course, does the matter arise whether they will grow again and how will they grow? Finally, the fourth is that here it emerges - and with the experience existing in the overall framework of operation and indemnification of the ELGA - the need to change the ELGA regulation to cover, compensate for all damages, disasters, from all causes of destruction, plant production, animal production and fixed capital, without delays. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, in fact, in the wider area of the Municipality of Tirnavos on 13 and 14 April, we had serious and intense quartz phenomena. The damage is definitely great. For the type and height of the damage the ELGA, which has been mobilised immediately. Where does that come from? First, after 15 days, i.e. about the next week, the personalisation of the damage will begin. We have tried and achieved it, Mr Papoutsis. The time from the assessment of the findings to the payment of the compensation was six to eight months. That's what last year's figures say. From twenty months ago, it occurred in six to eight months, that is, in November, it will have been compensated. As far as the damage is concerned, this includes not only the quantitative loss, but also the objective income that the producer would receive. Be sure that ELGA is moving at a very fast pace, because it really was very serious. Let us say that by sub-measure 5.1 the anti-hailing net is subsidised, which we were very interested in. The subsidy on the anti-hailing net is 80%. Also, the antibroke membrane is subsidized. In the first invitation we were of great interest on the part of producers and dossiers were submitted amounting to about 8 million euros, and a second call for producers to join measure 5.9 is expected. I'm sure there's a matter and a living for some. We have already personally addressed, and in writing, to Piraeus Bank for the suspension of the loan obligations of the farmers concerned, to the President of PPC with the request "as was favourable to any debts" of these growers and also to the Minister of Finance for the suspension of payment of tax obligations. More in my denture. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Colleague, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. For the time being, in terms of the ELGA compensation, which may be reduced, what you say, and by November at least, as you said in your prototype, Minister, may be compensated. The question is as in that period - you understand it too - with the lack of income because of this disaster suffered by farmers what will happen to them. You say you're making some moves. The question is that these should immediately be launched, immediately, not only by the relevant bodies, but also by their implementation, in order to decommission farmers. And it's not just tax, but it's contributions to insurance agencies, it's the debts they have in banks, it's electricity payments, it's fixed payments. From there on are the fixed costs of a rural family, which must itself be maintained. That is why we are also saying in the question that there should be an extraordinary grant, state funding, State aid to the farmers affected, in order to ensure that they can afford their daily expenses. That's the one. Secondly, with regard to ELGA - I should like to stay a little on this. The ELGA has been operating under the following regime since 2012, but also earlier, that is, the regulation has changed. First of all, the state owes ELGA each year from 2012 until today EUR 35 million. They pay the farmers, they increase the insurance contributions, and of course, since part of them goes to the operation of the ELGA, workers' payments and, in general, all the activities carried out by the ELGA, some of them have been left for peanuts many times for farmers, and farmers, if they get compensation and when they get compensation. The second issue, which concerns the prevention or, if not, the treatment of such phenomena, is a constant request for years and, of course, the problem in this region of Tyrnavos - and not just - is not this year's. Every year or, if you want, every two years, you face over - down, to a smaller or larger extent - unfortunately this year is quite great, hugely the area that has been affected - the same problem. You said of this subsidy, of measures which farmers themselves should launch in order to protect their fields, i.e. an anti-hail net, which is subsidised, or an anti-brain membrane, etc. It's not a question of subsidizing. The question is whether farmers themselves can do so. For I beg your pardon, but there are farmers - there is a stratification in this sense - who can respond to it and put themselves in their pockets the rest of the investment to take this protection measure and, on the other hand, there is a large part of farmers - and especially in this area - small farmers who will not have that possibility. We say here that we should, if it is supposed to be the measure and not, for example, as the ELGA has been saying for how long now, that through the aerial treatment of such phenomena, particularly quarantine, farmers were to be assured. Life itself, of course, proved to be the opposite, or I do not know whether this measure, the means did not work the way they had to work. If you wish, the state in general would have to find the way in which, on the one hand, it takes measures and on the other hand does not charge a single euro for farmers. The responsibility of the State should be this, not through a subsidy etc., i.e. subsidies for anti-hail nets or anti-brain membrane, as you said. From there on, of course, they are the other issues, as I have said, on taxation, which farmers pay unpleasantly. Look at the cost of production. The day before yesterday we tabled two amendments concerning oil for farmers, the Petroleum Special Tax, and the State aid by 50% to the electricity bill, in order to reduce even the farmers' costs, but above all to reduce production costs for themselves. Of course, the government rejected both of them, which let me say that it was the least of the very mild measures, if you wish, but which, after all, would reduce the financial burden on farmers. Neither these basics nor these basics, nor do you accept these little.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u9	I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. We therefore say that immediately, Minister, as a government - because the government is working uniformly - you must act. Of course, it is the responsibility, as you said, of the Ministry of Finance to give the state funding that we are asking you and we are putting for farmers and the regions affected. It is a matter of coordination and agreement between the government and pressure in this direction and, of course, the farmers themselves with their struggle, and their claims to fight to claim these measures. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u10	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, no one wants the damage to farmers. Nobody. However, we have proved that we are close to farmers on the one hand to the direct mobilisation of the ELGA - but that, as you know, requires a reasonable period of time for the assessment to be made and for them to be fair, correct and rapid - and, on the other hand, directly and personally I myself am at your disposal. I present the documents to the bank, PPC and the Ministry of Finance - especially to the Ministry of Finance - requesting the use of Article 5 of Law 2275/1994, which suspends the recovery of late payments to the State for up to six months in the event of extensive disasters. As you know, certain specific procedures must be carried out with the assistance of local authorities. Conclusion immediately within two days. Apart from mobilising the ELGA, the co-legislative ministries or other agencies, we have made detailed requests to ensure a decent standard of living for our farmers. Secondly, the anti-purpose net and the anti-broiler membrane are subsidised at 80% and dossiers amounting to EUR 8.5 million have already been filed. As far as ELGA is concerned, the regulation does indeed have to be amended six years and its last amendment concerned increasing contributions. The constant demand for farmers to include other insurance risks has never been touched by anyone. That study has been entrusted with the relevant study as from 16 December 2018. Next year we will be talking about a new regulation in ELGA, including other insurance risks, in line with what farmers, cooperatives and institutions have proposed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u12	Thank you to the Minister and to the economy in time. We continue with two topical questions that will be answered by the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Efi Ahtsoglou. We begin with our second question with No 492/16-4-2019 on the first cycle of the Member of the Republican Association Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Supporting the Institution of Collective Agreements". Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, as you know, collective bargaining and collective bargaining are a conquest for the Greek society and it was one of the important issues - because I do not know that there have been others - where the political forces have been able to reach agreement and to vote for the relevant institutional framework in 1990. Due to the crisis and the memoranda, as you know, it had been suspended since 2011 and after part of the institutional framework, so that this has not been the case for some years. With the end, of course, of the programme and as planned, it could have started the entire institutional framework again as from 2015. Because of the third memorandum, we arrived in 2018 to return part of the institutional framework. Today, according to the government's assurances of 20 August, there is no obligation on the troika or the institutions, and it is therefore my question, but also on all the workers, because there is no difference in treatment in cases where we have collective bargaining. We have signed collective agreements or have arbitral decisions and will have to through a circular that you have adopted in July 2018, the employer will actually consent to them in order to extend and apply to all businesses. It is the responsibility of employers to extend this, in our view, without being entitled to this by any law. With the abusive practice commonly followed by their institution - not always - we have no application of collective agreements and therefore work rights relating, of course, to pay, but also to working conditions. I would like to know whether you intend to amend this circular and to apply a different way in which the use of collective agreements will not stand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u14	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u15	Mr Kegeroglu, it is really a question of how the party representative, who was in the coup d'état - when that Papademos coup d'état abolished collective agreements and collective bargaining - is now coming to relinquish the current government that brought them back on behalf of the workers. It is truly worthy of wonder how a party representative, who introduced the 2012 Ministerial Council Act, which abolished fundamental workers' rights and dismantled the protection framework, comes to call on the current government that restores it. Collective labour agreements and collective bargaining have been reintroduced since 21 August, because 11 sectoral collective agreements covering more than two thousand workers have been extended and generally declared compulsory. Therefore, this is an objective reality that cannot be questioned or brought into a case. However, it is really a question to me worthy of wonder, when a party representative, who signs the 2012 cabinet act, who in one night reduced the minimum wage by 22%, introduced the shameful undersubstantial wage for young people, reducing the wage by 32%, abolished the collective labour contracts and led to the depletion of unemployment to 28% and 60% for young people, to come down to the current government, which has increased the wage and restored collective labour contracts. This proves to be the case. I don't have to say any legal arguments. In this matter it turns out, I repeat. Eleven sectoral collective agreements have been extended and the others - those that are active - have already reduced unemployment to 18%. To me, it's really worth wondering if it's not on the edge of a mockery. As far as the issue of expansion is concerned, you are very well aware that the requirement to cover 51%, namely to extend a collective agreement signed by enterprises employing more than 51% of the workers in the sector, has always existed. There was by Law 1876/1990. There was always until you suspended her until you abolished the collective bargaining. We did nothing but restore the law as it was, Law No. 1876/1990. What are we doing? The process, with which 51% is measured, has been updated, because we have more tools available to us and this can be done in a very concrete and transparent way. This procedure has been described in the circular that you have described, and which had not even been a minimum obstacle to extending the sectoral collective agreements covering 51%. That is why, as I said, we have already extended the eleven sectoral collective agreements, and we will be expanding another three from week to week in the decision of the Higher Labour Council. As was the case with Law No 1876/1990, today. In other words, workers' and employers' representatives go to the collective agreement at the Labour Council, which is being proposed. We updated the process, because, as you know, since 2013, we have had a tool in our hands, the information system 'ERGANI', which allows us to make real control over how many employees work in specific businesses. In other words, we can now see 51% in a transparent way and that has only intervened. No new condition has been introduced on our part. It has not been added.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u17	It is indeed worth asking you that, instead of answering, Minister, what you are talking about, you come and give us a micro-party policy. But you are also out of reality because, in fact, because of the conclusion of the programme and the Memorandum in 2012, 2013 and 2014 suspension of part of the institutional framework for collective agreements which expired on 31-12-2014, you have extended it for another three years. That's why you didn't say a word. Because you want this conversation, you can explain it to us. Also, explain why since 2016, which could have been the law to raise minimum wages, it has not increased, because you did not do what you announced before September 2015 for a EUR 751 direct decision and you come to justify a circular unacceptable, which grants the right to the employer with an attack on what has happened and is a reality, the whole Greek people know it. Not only did you not correct them, not only did you not withdraw the negative decisions, which were in fact at that time when we were in the heart of the crisis, but you extended them and made them worse. And you come to tell us now that employers have an interest in giving the evidence, expanding contracts and stuff like that. This is what the New Democracy says about self-regulation of the market and the New Democracy assigns this work to employers. If this circular is yours, you say it's a repeat of what happened, then you didn't have to be issued. It could therefore bring in the previous ones. It's something fresh yours, fresh, left neoliberal. How else can we say it? If, in fact, your circular is not an obstacle, you can tell me whether these contracts, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, are in your mind and why they have not been extended yet. I will submit five contracts, of which the two are the result of collective negotiations signed, a collective agreement for workers in all kinds of non-predominant tourist accommodation throughout the country, a contract for workers in confectionery workshops and arbitration decisions also for relevant categories of workers. Why haven't they extended? To conclude, I would like to say that there is indeed the ERGANN tool, on which basis you could, without the need for the employer to help, find out all the workers who are in a sector. You said this was at our disposal since 2013. I think it would be a good thing now that it has developed, that it has been organised better, since it has been implemented for so many years. So why don't you do it? We really want the debate to focus and see how we find solutions to this, instead of the 'attack', to which you were served by taking the floor without answering the question. I am returning to this question, therefore, and I am thinking of the fact that it is possible in a different way to establish the requirement of the law without being abusive to employers' practices. I just want to say one more word. The social partners, to whom the employers belong, as I have noted you in the question, have taken too many millions to implement programmes and actions for operators. In other words, the ESS must have taken over a hundred million, and the Central Association of Chambers and BSE and the GFCM have taken many millions for action programmes and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Comrade, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u19	I shall conclude, Mr President. So why in their good will to lay down an obligation they actually have and why should we not oblige them in some way? These solutions are being sought in order to have fewer problems with regard to workers' rights. The distributors had a great deal of mobilization the other day. They did very well, they came and raised their issues to the Ministry. Many of these issues are included in the collective agreements which have already been signed. Why don't we move on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u21	Mr Kegeroglu, it is not a fact that he does not know that at the moment the present government and the specific Ministry of Labour have generally declared eleven sectoral collective labour agreements covering two hundred thousand employees in the banking sector, the hotel crew, the shipping companies, the tourism offices, mining companies and radio technicians. That is the reality, which, however much you want to question, is not questioned. You have used an argument - and I have heard it another time - that it had been discussed with the Members of your party in Parliament at the time, when we voted to reinstate collective bargaining - that this suspension of collective bargaining - which you have imposed and it is good to admit, before you come to us - would end on 31-12-2014 and we have extended it. This is a completely unfounded argument. If you see the law, which you signed, regarding the suspension of collective bargaining, it said that this suspension was linked to the medium-term budgetary strategy programmes, not to a memorandum, with the medium-term financial strategy framework. The medium-term framework of a fiscal strategy is an obligation for our country by the European Union and it has a specific duration and is constantly renewed. Every year we vote on the budget, we also update the new medium-term financial strategy framework. Therefore, this suspension would never end automatically, if the present government did not come to negotiate, to raise it as a central issue of the European pillar at the Rome Summit, to negotiate for many months on this matter and finally to vote on it to come back. But, as I told you, even if you do not agree with the parliamentary or legal procedure - which you are wrong about, and I have once again pointed it out to the Members of your party - the reality is disgusting to you because eleven sectoral collective labour agreements have already been extended. As far as some of the things you mentioned - I will see what you mentioned - are, however, covering 51% of those that have already been extended. On Monday, three more will be extended. For example, the non-main tourist accommodation you mentioned will be extended on Monday. You also mentioned something to increase the minimum wage. You have fully adopted Mr Brutsi's argument. Mr. Brutsis had made a law that said that the discussion process would be able to start to raise the minimum wage not earlier than the end of the then memorandum, the 2014 memorandum, the second memorandum, that is, not earlier than the 1st -1-2017. It was the New Democracy, which, while in the second Memorandum, set a time horizon for its completion much after the real deadline for the completion of the second Memorandum. Therefore, these issues do not bring them here as serious arguments. Besides, I say again that reality proves...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u22	We have tabled a proposal for a law. Admit it to be discussed! They tell us you're denying! We have tabled a proposal for a law!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Kegeroglu, you don't sound!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u24	Yes, and we increased the wages, too, and we abolished the subordinate. All right, everyone can do whatever they want to talk indefinitely and intentionally. We raised the wages, Mr Kegeroglu, and restored the collective agreements. We can talk vaguely about these issues, but when the cabinet act became to reduce the wages and abolish collective bargaining was your own party in the coup d'état, it wasn't mine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u25	Madam Minister, we have tabled a proposal for a law...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Kegeroglu, you don't sound and you won't let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u27	I am returning to the issue of expansion, and I would like to mention two more issues. The 51% of workers, as I said, were covered by Law 1876/1990. We have updated the 51% assistance procedure, precisely because we have other tools available to us. You say that we have the information system 'ERGAN'. First of all, let me say one thing important first. There has been no problem so far in declaring a collective agreement covering 51% generally compulsory. In other words, so far, we have no cases where the employers do not give us. So far, we don't have a situation like this. That's the first. Therefore, employers' organisations themselves, which have consented to this process - from the outset - have consented, in principle - to implement their commitment and give their registers. Secondly, it is reasonable - I think - that it is in the interest of any undertaking which has signed a sectoral collective agreement to want it to become compulsory for others as well, because it will be able to have no negative competition from the other undertakings in the sector. It is in its interest to give its members, so it gives them up and that is why the collective agreements are expanding. Thirdly, the Ministry of Labour, as I told you, has the "ERGANI" since 2013 and then to do control. You say 'why only with 'ERGAN' you can't find?' The "ERGAN" shows how many employees each company employs, does not indicate which members have a collective contract signed by an association of employers. We need to see which members the signatory employer union has, so that we can get in and check on the number of workers. In any case, we have the possibility - and this is allowed by law and we will do so, if necessary, but it has not been present so far - if there is abusive behaviour on the part of an employer organisation, to say 'I do not give my members' on the basis of common knowledge, namely on the basis of the available data on the Internet, to find the businesses and members of an employer organisation and to proceed in this way. And there will be no problem confirming expansion, nor will it be able to be called into question in the courts, because we will have a manifestly abusive behaviour on the part of employers. However, these are technical details, which are trying to hide a substance, that collective labour agreements have returned and expansion is a fact. This is a fact that cannot be called into question, however much you do not like.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Minister. We continue with our second question with No 491/16-4-2019 on the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Dangerous working conditions of the working distributors". The question will be answered by the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Ahtsoglou. Here, Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, on the occasion of the death of the nineteen-year-old distributor in Thessaloniki, we tabled the question we are discussing today after six postponements. At this time, unfortunately, employers' crimes continued throughout Greece. I mean, human sacrifice doesn't end. Unfortunately, the tragic conditions of unhealthy and dangerous work of workers distributors have come to the surface. What characterizes this sector is the total lack of protection and security measures, the pressure for quick delivery of orders in any weather treaty, even time-frame, without regard to what this means to the safety of workers, but to the rest of the people on the road. Most workers work as seasonal, non-contractual, insurance or half-insured and in many cases unpaid. They pay for their own machines, they pay for gasoline again. In the event of an accident and damage, the repair costs of their vehicle shall be borne. The government has a great responsibility, of course, for the large number of deaths, but also the injury of workers in the sector, because unfortunately this anti-government policy continues, with a great contribution, of course, to this situation experienced by workers, not only in this sector but also in the rest of the world, because, in fact, despite all the previous debate, collective agreements have been overturned by the institutional framework. The role of the FIFG has been differentiated, and this is well known and has not come back - if you like - these arrangements that can actually give rise to collective agreements, when employers refuse to come here to discuss the signing of contracts on terms of pay and work such as that which ensure better working conditions for workers. The questions, Minister, which we have put to you are about what you will do to ensure full and stable work, with full insurance for dealers' workers through the sectoral collective agreement on foodstuff, which must be compulsory for all employers, with all wage and right losses, with five-hour working hours, eight hours total for workers. You know that the collective agreement on foodstuff that also covers distributors has not been made compulsory. You know that there are too many employers' organisations in this sector. There is an arbitration decision, but it has not been made and it is not applicable. There must be an integrated scientific study on the suitability of equipment and means of transport, such as specially constructed vehicles for the carriage of cargoes, machines, equipment, maintenance and transport costs to be provided by the undertaking. It must include the helmet. An alternative must be provided for the purchase and the necessary replacement as many times as necessary. Finally, distributors' specialty in heavy and unhealthy professions must be included, banning the distribution by dicyclopedics in dangerous weather conditions, on the basis of the provisions which have so far been laid down for other specialties. It is well known that work in the heat and cold is banned in other specialties. It must also be banned in this sector. The distribution range of shops, Minister, should also be limited to kilometres. It cannot be covered in a wide range and even in time for the worker to be at the expense of his own life.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u31	Mr Katsotis, in fact, workers who work as distributors face important issues in their work, which I would say are two kinds: the first side is that they are faced with the classic problems of undeclared and undeclared work, which in the specific workplace, in this profession, is more often, so we need to see how we respond to them horizontally. The second issue is in particular problems faced by distributors, which are mainly related to the risk of their profession. As far as the first part, to which I will not give a special time, is concerned, as regards the treatment of undeclared and undeclared work, which is a typical form of infringement of this profession, we have done several things by the Ministry, as you know, and at legislative level about the rules, about the observance of hours, overtime, the change in the architecture of the fine for undeclared work, the stricterisation of the framework, the stricterisation of fines, the prediction that recurring offenders will even face the penalty for the closure of businesses, etc. There are results made thanks to this work. You know that the rate of undeclared work has been reduced by about 10% in these four years that we are in the government. I have very specific data on the control part, and in particular on the foodstuff sector, which is the main sector in which distributors work. I'll come to these in my dentistry, because first of all I want to get into the following issues: I said that, as you say in your question, there are very specific problems, specific problems facing distribution workers and which have not been dealt with in legislation, that is, we have a legislative gap there. That is why we are prepared to legislate on a number of regulations - they have been included in the bill for the hundred and twenty instalments, so it is a matter of days to legislate - which have emerged after discussion - after consultation with the workers' representatives. What will these arrangements provide for? First, the obligation to maintain the vehicle by the employer, since it is owned by the employer. Secondly, the obligation of the employer to provide personal protective equipment: helmets suitable for the protection of the rider, waterproof protection, gloves, reflective vest. Thirdly, if the machine is the property of the worker, because there are also these cases, we are introducing the obligation of monthly compensation for the use and maintenance of the vehicle to at least 15% of the minimum wage from the employer to the worker in order to protect the worker's wage fully and to stop the phenomenon of the worker using his wages to cover the maintenance costs. Fourthly, the regulations will provide for the mandatory introduction of the number of motorcycles in the information system ‘ERGAN’. This is how we will start to create a two-cycle record and we will be able to do much more effective audits than the Labour Inspectorate. Fifthly, we are preparing a joint ministerial decision with the co-legislative Transport and Civil Protection Ministries to have a comprehensive framework of specifications, standardisation of vehicle maintenance, personal protective equipment, the technical characteristics of the storage area, the assessment of occupational risk. Sixthly, because you are also referring to the question of the need for a scientific study on the specific characteristics of this profession, I would say that we have already commissioned such a study to a relevant scientist in order to provide us with a study of safety and health in areas where non-conventional labour relations appear to occur, namely, in the food sector, where we have distributors. And this study, which will be delivered to us, will allow us to make further arrangements. So we are starting a set of regulations, a set of legislative measures, which, as I said, are in the bill of 20 instalments and will be voted on within the next few days. These regulations obviously do not cover the whole problem, but I think it is an essential first step to start weaving a protection net for these workers who did not exist before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor. You have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, we will of course see the legislation you are preparing. Of course, we do not dispute what you said about the six points provided for in the legislation. However, we believe that it is necessary for the Ministry to immediately study the integration of this sector into heavy and unhealthy. This dangerous work cannot be incorporated into heavy and unhealthy work. No shorter working time may be foreseen. The worker can't be eight hours on the motorcycle. You know very well that the worker cannot afford eight hours on a dicyclop. And of course, the timing should be banned and strict fines should be imposed. What's the time limit? It is not based on the safety of the worker, but on an increase in performance, an increase in the company's profits. Timeline means death. We believe that these are issues which cannot be omitted from the legislation. The collective labour agreement is also a matter which concerns thousands of workers, not only distributors, but also the rest of food, as we have already said. We believe that this collective labour agreement, which provides for institutional conditions for both workers and distributors, should be extended in total and the tricks left by employers. With your tolerance, however, you are, unfortunately, helping these workers to live in a working jungle with hunger wages, without applying the collective agreement, the one that has been signed, the one that has been claimed, the one decided by arbitration, but which does not apply to any undertaking throughout the country as a whole. On this basis, we believe that the government needs, through the legislation, to take serious account of all these requests, particularly of distributors, since we are talking about them today, and to satisfy them, because they are perfectly fair. Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u34	I want to say two - three things about the audit section, which I did not have time to say in my first speech. The Labour Inspectorate has targeted the food industry, because it is a sector most offended. In the key employment sector of these distributors between 2017 and the end of 2018 we have done fifteen thousand audits and have imposed fines of EUR 22 million. Just because the issue concerns and particularly touches on health and safety at work, the Health and Safety Inspectorate has done about four and a half thousand checks during this period and has imposed fines of 300 thousand euros. Therefore, in the audit section there is no doubt that the Labour Inspectorate has targeted this sector and has a very specific programme in order to ensure that what is in place and what we are going to establish, the six points I have described to you. As far as the collective agreement is concerned, I should first of all like to point out that the framework of the FIFG has not been dismantled, namely unilateral recourse to the arbitration of the worker, so that he can have a collective agreement with his own hands, and so it has also been done here, that is to say we had unilateral referral of workers to arbitration so that they can obtain a collective agreement. Arbitration decision is made. Employers questioned it in the five-member committee, the secondary body of the OMD, and only in April the decision of the secondary body, which vitiates workers, was taken. At the moment, of course, the collective labour agreement has expired and is in the period of extension, that is, the quarter. Typically ends May. Therefore, at the moment the collective agreement is active, but at the end of May it will be over and its three-month extension will have to be signed, so new ones will have to be signed. The institutional framework - you will see the arrangements - as I have told you, is within the bill. We are also dealing with the issue of integration into heavy and unhealthy. It will not be in this bill, but it is under consideration, in order to make this arrangement as well. The political significance is that, through consultation with workers, we are starting to weaving a network of protection for categories of workers who were invisible, such as workers in contractors and workers distributors. To start, in other words, going out and entering some of the safeguards of their work, and until yesterday - I mean, before the crisis - the workers were completely invisible. And perhaps most importantly, these arrangements actually come after collective claims of workers, and this also shows a very good functioning of the trade union side of this sector, this profession, which is able to bring concrete proposals, which we too will be able to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber of ENIZELOS and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and three teachers from the 1st Petroupoli High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let us inform you that the reason why you see a few Members in the Chamber is because parliamentary control and topical questions are being discussed, where the Member concerned exercises his right to put a timely question to the Minister responsible and to have a debate. The next question to be debated concerns the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and will be answered by the State Secretary, Konstantinos Barkas. It is the third with No 477/8-4-2019 topical question from the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject of the 'Extension of programmes of a public nature'. Mr Yoyakas has the floor for two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u36	Minister, last year the OAED announced two actions for employment in programmes of a public nature. One with a public invitation number of 8/2018, concerned about thirty thousand places in municipalities, regions and welfare centres. The other, under public invitation No 4/2018, involved about five thousand posts in the Ministry of the Environment and decentralised administrations for fire protection. Both programs lasted eight months with the possibility of prolonging forty-five days. This was the case, Minister, when an amendment first and then a joint ministerial decision extended the eight-month employment of those involved in anti-nuclear protection for sixteen months. The thinking was the better protection of forests and emergency needs in the anti-nuclear period, beginning on May 1st. However, this decision gives rise to a sense of unequal treatment to the beneficiaries of the respective programme that runs in municipalities and regions, people who, as we all know, have long been out of work with obligations which they do not expect, for whom, even three - four months of work, would be a great help and which meet real daily needs in the services that are being employed. It seems, in fact, that there is a balance in the budget for this programme which has not been given, because all the positions have not been met. Mr Minister, in view of the fact that there is already a new similar action, but which concerns other municipalities and agencies, I would like you to tell us whether it is your intention to extend the duration of the previous programme beyond the period provided for in the notice No 8/2018. It would be - I say this again - important because many thousands of families across the country are very anxiously waiting. We have also seen the report by Mr Dannelly, the Independent MEP, who is also interested in municipalities in Crete. I also have the information - I don't know if it's a reality - that there is a gathering in the Ministry of Labour today by people who are interested in the specific programme you're in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has three minutes to speak first.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Yoyaka, I was informed of another question. I have another question in my hands, which you have tabled - from what I see you sign here - and the questions are other than what you are saying now, and I do not know whether this is provided for by parliamentary control. So I will answer these questions which the question has, and I cannot go back to that. So, Mr Yoyakas, I would like to clarify the following.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u39	But I don't have another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Yoyaka, let the Minister answer your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u41	Mr Yoyakas, I would like to clarify the following: programmes of a public nature are not related to fixed-term contracts, as you have mentioned in the question you have put to me. You say that these are defined by Presidential Decree 164/2004. They're not there. Public work looks forward to tackling the effects of long-term unemployment, while leaving back work to communities or places where these people go but do not cover fixed and constant needs. Therefore, being a programme to which the OAS is obviously involved, it is excluded from the above-mentioned presidential decree, which you refer to in your question. The programmes, which you mentioned in your question, have indeed been extended as exceptionally. Because, this exception was on the basis of concrete and unreserved needs, such as the continuation of the management of the refugee flows in the context of the crisis our country was asked to manage - you know the problems facing our country because of the refugee crisis - but also the timely and effective preparation of the anti-missile period, which is a question that I am sure you and your party are also aware of its crisis. To come now to the answers to your question, with information from the OAED's integrated information system, from the thirty-three thousand to thirty-three posts that were published in the OTA programme in the municipalities and regions, twenty-five thousand eighty-four posts have been covered, while since 219,276,000 euros, which we had budgeted, were spent on 182.054.128 euros. In other words, we have a cover for positions and expenditure at around 83%. In particular, to tell you about the region of Thesprotia in which you are elected, there were two hundred and seventy socially beneficial jobs from which the two-fifths have been covered, about 80%. The intangible amount, i.e. the difference between these two amounts, what had been budgeted and what had been spent, is obviously not lost. What resulting from Community resources remains in the NSRF available for other co-financed actions of the General Secretariat for the Management of Community and other resources and, respectively, the amount referred to in national resources remains in the OAED. As far as your third question is concerned, eight public employment programmes have been completed between 2015 and today, which have benefited sixty-seven thousand seventy-seven-five unemployed, a total budget of around EUR 423.441 000. Today, four programmes of a public interest are in operation, aimed at forty-four thousand fourteen benefiting, a total budget of about EUR 331 487 000. With regard specifically to your last question - the question you have put to me, I mean - at the moment the Ministry is not guided by a new legislation allowing the extension of programmes of a social nature, apart from what we have already foreseen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Yoyakas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u43	Mr Barkas, unfortunately you have answered what you have been asking, without understanding what you are answering. My question was clear and with the text you have given you, you have answered what you have been asking. The substance of the question is whether you were willing to extend this programme. According to your context and answer, you have no intention of doing so. Honestly, you're applying two standards. Because in this programme, as you said yourself, around 80% of the beneficiaries were recruited. There are possibilities and conditions. As the Minister is here too, I would like to say that we want you to understand the anxiety of these people. I think that a period of four months would enable them to gain more experience, to find working time and to be able to contribute to their family. I have nothing more to say. But, Minister, once again, I would like to say that you have answered what you have been asking. I don't think you've read the question well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Yoyaka. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Yoyaka, on reading, I'm going to ask you about the question that arrived at our office at the Ministry for the record.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u46	We've got her, Mr. Barca. You don't have to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u47	I will present it to you, because the honourable Member is giving me a resignation for reading. Obviously, he does not know the question he has tabled. Now, I will answer whether or not we have intentions. Obviously, this programme is in force. It's not over yet. You will know that these people are working in a program of mutual benefit, which has specific characteristics. I mentioned to you the temporary, exceptional reasons why you took the previous programme, which you mentioned in your first speech, an extension. It was the anti-nuclear period. We had the best management of the anti-missile period. At the moment, Mr Yoyakas, what the Ministry is doing is to be able to know whether the people in the OTA programme meet essential needs of the municipalities, which does not arise at the moment - if you like - from the debate with the CEDEFOP or from the municipalities. Perhaps exceptionally, some municipalities have notified this. At the moment, however, the Ministry does not know that. But we, Mr Yoyakas, are doing exactly because we want to help people who are long-term unemployed who have been in the eye of the cyclone and the crisis for which certain people are responsible. I would remind you of the unemployment rate at 27% and the unemployment rate at 60%. You know which parties led to that crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u48	Untie it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u49	So we solve this, Mr Yoyaka. That's what we're doing. And I mentioned the programs, which the Ministry had been in force since 2015 until now and how many people have benefited. The Minister a moment ago, in answering another question - thankfully she is here side by side and you have also heard it - referred to specific figures in terms of reducing unemployment, increasing the minimum wage, cancelling the racist measure of the underpaid wage. So what do we say? We as a Ministry must be prepared to organise a second cycle of such programmes, as we do in all the Social Welfare Programmes when the needs arise. We'll find the money. I am not saying that the amount which has not been spent can cover these needs. We will, however, find the money. So we, Mr Yoyakas, are organizing for a second cycle. Of course, we won't leave any gaps in the municipalities. We will never - you know too well - leave a vacant period and leave uncovered municipalities, as far as specific needs of people working in public programmes are concerned. So we're organized. Here we are to discuss with the municipalities their needs. The municipalities and regions are responsible for telling us what needs they have so that we can organise it better.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We will be adjourning the sitting and coming back to you at 14.00 with the agenda for the legislative work, as you have been distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Conservation of Personnel of Armed Forces, Strategics, Military Justice and Other Provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 16 April 2019 that the draft law should be discussed at a single meeting on principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u52	The House has agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr Christos Karagiannidis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. This bill is coming to complete the regulations in a series of legislation we have done since we took over the country's governance. We are completing these arrangements which lead to even greater justice among the members of the Armed Forces. The predictions received obviously do not guarantee all the inequalities that have arisen over so many years, but have a clear positive sign and deepen the sense of democracy and equality between the members of the Armed Forces. The men and women of the Armed Forces are charged with great responsibility for the defence of the country, while they are required to be more flexible, since their frequent moves disturb their family and social lives. For this reason, the care taken to partially normalize their lives is necessary beyond. In particular, for officers and officers, these arrangements are more important in order to achieve greater equality. On the New Democracy side, we have heard from the committees, from its Vice-President, the most amazing and all-embracing that has so far been said. I read from the Minutes, precisely to prevent him from being wronged: the Vice-President said: "It is unnecessary to say for the House that as long as the Greek people vote for New Democracy in the next elections of 2019, which we will have elections, this bill will be abolished as a whole as a bill of shame". Therefore, the Qualified Opposition tells us that it is disgraceful to be able to legal support officials and armed forces by officials of the Legal Council of State in criminal proceedings, to provide for reduced working hours for officials who have, or have a disabled person, 50% of whom are suffering from diabetes, to provide for an exceptional transfer to their place of choice, to cover the costs of uninsured benefits in military hospitals, to extend the benefit of the reduced term of office to all children of a third country or a multitude of family, to provide care for students from both the Icar School and other military schools who come during their stay with health problems, so that it is not self-evident and self-evident, but to provide them with the opportunity to stay in the Armed Forces. There is also provision for the once-in-a-half sums paid retrospectively in 2018 to be exempted from income and not to be imputed to the payment of any kind of social benefits and benefits. There is also the addition to the retained allowances of the EUROCONTROL compensation for civil servants of the National Meteorological Office and the provision for the integration of military schools into the system for the transfer of student brothers in different cities. I said some of the things that the bill has in it, which for us have a positive sign, and which the New Democracy, in the statement of its Vice-President, will abolish once it becomes power. You understand that all this sounds like a threat to the citizens, who should take such statements seriously into account. I would now like to make some references to some articles. There has been a lot of talk here too, but also with interested parties, about Article 32. I believe that in his speech the Minister and the Deputy Minister will clarify and clarify any issues arising out of this article. In the Commission too, there was an extensive debate on Article 15 and there was a hard criticism on the part of the New Democracy, not always on decent terms. It says New Democracy, inviting the Minister, that he legislates for a SYRIZA paradigm. One elementary reading of the first paragraph would save you from such type of statements you made at the meetings of the committees, because the first paragraph of this article describes that the General Staff of the Armed Forces are to be introduced as Offices of Legal Protection which are directly subject to the Chief in question and are managed by military bodies. So the General Staff and their Chiefs are SYRIZA's groupmates? Do you understand what we're talking about? How do you claim to remove the hierarchy from it? How exactly is the Armed Forces worthy of being undermined? What is recognised, in other words, by all the executives of all the grades, is the possibility, through the exercise of the administration, not to feel defenseless, to have the very confidence that a procedure can legally enable them to examine one of their complaints or objections or anything else, that undermines the worthy of the Greek Army? The second disagreement - and here I think this is an ideological disagreement and the New Democracy must be cleared up a lot about the Greek Army and human rights in the Greek public opinion - is about dissenting conscience. I reread from the Minutes what has been said, namely that the legislation on conscientious objections has been described as an aristocratic obsession and idealism. First of all, I would like to say that the main legislation on conscientious objections has been taken by the New Democracy. I also have the decision I have read in the Committee of the Council of State. Do you accept that the Council of State is an institution and that the leftists do not dominate this? It says, therefore, that the Council of State at the request of a citizen, which voids and annulls the Minister's decision not to be given the right to an alternative term of office, ‘Because, in this case, the composition of the Committee referred to in Article 62 of Law No 3421 of 2005’, which the New Democracy legislated, ‘on which the contested act was based, was not lawful because they represented four members, of which they were two military members, who were subject to a priori unfavourable objections to the applicants for recognition of conscience’. That is what the Council of State says. Will you tell those who are wearing the court bell and follow SYRIZA's jewels? It's a decision of the Council of State. This decision concludes that it accepts the request for an annulment of the Minister's decision and entitles the citizen. I'll get you other examples. An annual report by the Citizens' Counsel in 2013, by the Citizens' Counsellor of the Hellenic Republic, which says: "The personal interview as a means of finding reasons for conscience is in itself controversial in so far as it goes to an honesty check." That's what the Citizen's Counsel says. Leftists and the Citizen's Counselor? So, are they in favour of defiance of the Greek Army? I'll read only titles to you. I'm going to read to you this duplicate, where our country's convictions are. Committee on Human Rights, the Council of Human Rights Economic Periodic Committee, the European Court of Human Rights, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Confidence, the European Committee on Social Rights of the Council of Europe, the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Social Affairs, the European Parliament. Don't keep reading. Do you accept these institutions as such, which must function and to a certain extent ensure human rights? What do we do that characterizes as 'ideoleptic obsession and aristocratic idealism'? You should respond to these institutions if we are right or wrong. Finally, I should like to talk about two amendments. One amendment is to mobilise experience of intake in the Navy. The nature of the operations carried out on submarines and warships of the Hellenic Navy, which are directly related to their full operational readiness, requires craftsmen with great expertise. It is, we believe, sensible to propose an increased mobilisation of experience with twenty points per month for the first thirty six months and seven points for every next month, for the next eighty-four. I would also like to say about the amendment to compensation in cases of deletion from a military school. It concerns cases where, if you look at them without any particular legal knowledge, we think it is right for this amendment to pass. Military schooling is very high requirements and there is a great risk of incomplete completion of studies. Compensation linked to cases of deletion by a military school is justified in all cases, as listed in Article 8 of Law 1911/1990. It is, however, particularly severe when it is linked to failure in education. This means that we need to see a little more fairer people who fail to finish military schools. I will close with something that the JRC has tabled an amendment for. We will also have a corresponding amendment, which will not be much different from that of the JRC, which concerns the possibility of establishing a secondary institution by regional military associations. I think it is an issue which Mrs Canelle to the Commission has explained. I don't have to say anything more. It is about reasons of democracy and the full representation of these people. Finally, I hope that what happened to the committees will not happen. Let us maintain a noble dialogue. The criticism of being as hard as possible, but not personally offended people who either have worn military uniforms or serve the particular ministry and have the debate as smoothly as possible from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Kikilis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thucydides had written that the power of a state is his men and not the walls, not the empty ships. But you, in times that have become a series of mistakes and problems in the logistics infrastructure of this ministry, choose to once again table a bill that affects the human potential of the Armed Forces and institutionalise the loaf, the discharge. It is impressive that we have waited for almost five years to bring in a bill, Minister, which will put its weight on support for the revision and upgrading of the operational capacity of the Armed Forces in a very difficult neighborhood, at an extremely critical time. We expected that you would bring a bill, as several times in your committees the Anti-Population, with such a armamental law that will enable it to move forward so that the Ministry can modernise and go to the 21st century, as you see that the technologies "run" and the data change, with unmanned, 3D printing, artificial intelligence, etc. You, however, are unfortunately choosing to bring a bill that does not concern the entire Greek society, which expects the Armed Forces to defend our independence and our national sovereignty, but you bring a bill of Rushphetological, photographic, which unfortunately serves the few and gives the impression that you had a party line, you had a programme that you are treading - a programme that you are bringing to Parliament and you are trying to pass with this bill. Because I don't like generics, I'll be specific. What do you say to the men and women of the Armed Forces? Mr. Apostolakis is not here. Mr. King is here. What are you telling them? You tell them that the major thing about the Ministry of National Defense is conscientious objections and in committees you reduce the military, men and women of the Armed Forces and suggest the teachers so that there is an objective crisis in relation to conscientious objections. What does Mr. Apostolakis say? He says he has no confidence in those with whom he served forty years in all the stadiums and led as A/HYDDA and reduces them and increases some teachers to decide what will be done in the army with conscientious objections. We wonder here who wrote the bill, Apostolakis or Karanikas? You come back then and take a step and put the Legal Protection Offices in the bill. Which is hypocrisy! Legal Protection Offices within the administration of each unit, prejudicing the rat, i.e. putting one soldier against the other, going beyond all grades and commander of the unit, so that anyone wants to show their colleague or commander, go to the Chief or Minister. What else can you do to dismantle the army? Where do you think we're living? In Finland? Sweden? Can't you see what's going on in our neighborhood? Do you realize at a very critical time what you're going to do? This ministry has a vertical structure and all our soldiers in all three weapons, the Air Force, the Navy and the Greek Army, have learned to perform commands vertically, to listen to their superior. There is a moral advantage to the military, not because they are paid well, but because they believe in excellence. You know what? The emblem of the General Staff of National Defence is the "God excellence". Do you understand? Do you realize where you are, Minister, to which Ministry? So, what do you come and say, after the schools our officers are going through? That if the'very well' was between grades 15 and 19, it doesn't matter. Everybody move from grade 10 then on. This idealist policy against excellence, against the mind, against the power to be displayed by men and women of the Armed Forces. In other words, those who don't get hit, those who fight with each other, those who are indifferent, those who promote them and give everyone the chance to think "You don't get bored, the Greek Army is nothing. Whoever's doing whatever it is." And close your eyes on the new kids by telling them what? That there's another way to finish and you've exceeded your term of office. "You don't get bored, brother, you don't have to go to the army." Look out! In our country right now, with the threats he is taking around - around, with the geostrategic environment being very difficult, with issues every day, you tell them "Don't go to the army. Make a bluff. It's no big deal. Objections of conscience, then go to a municipality of your area and do not come at all." Look out! What did the law say? He said that conscientious objections, of course, not to the relocations, but to the front as nurses, as other specialists, to help, to support. You do not legislate for many, you do not legislate for the common good, you do not legislate for the country. Legislation for the few. There are a number of articles in the bill that we, because we do not wear blips of party parties and have proved over time as a New Democracy that we are most interested in homeland - and we mean patriotism, healthy patriotism as part of our soul and heart - of course we will vote for them. Tell me when in the years of the SYRIZA opposition, in the last logistics with the New Democracy, you voted for a bill, an article, an amendment, something. Never! And you are, as you were an opposition, as a government. Where is it in the bill basic things that regulate interclimateity? Where are they in the bill, Minister, basic things, which regulate the new era, the new data? Where is it in the bill of basics, which really facilitate the lives of our technicians on board ships, aircraft, pilots, men and women in the Navy or the Army? Where is what you should have brought for the last five years and actually enable the Greek citizen to say, it feels that, yes, we are well paid and valued for every euro of the Greek taxpayer in respect of the Armed Forces and, yes, the ones who are different from the previous ones and the Ministry is going forward. Where is he? The morality of the men and women of the Armed Forces is affected. You're tearing them apart. Spread the split, and so each one of them doesn't know that they're cooperating in the administration, within the unit, but on the contrary, everyone feels in danger of smuggling him to someone above. Legal Support Offices: It is a shame that you bring such things to the Greek Parliament in 2019 to vote for the Armed Forces. It's a disgrace. Everything that's rousphetological, whatever the election is there, in order to close the eye on some people and get a bite, bring it into this bill, and it's also badly written, is even rough. We did not have time to start and I see ten amendments, half of you, all of you late. You were raped to bring the bill before the Great Week, thus stressing its importance. You do not know what you are serving yourself. You don't know who our allies really are, what we have to do in terms of our obligations, what hierarchy means, what a bad structure means, what it means, what I obey orders. All you come to regulate, the only thing you're interested in is this part of your election clientele that you think through the Greek Army can be reconciled with the vast majority of Greek society. You had a golden opportunity, you had four years when the Civic Opposition was there, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which was there, in the Committee on Armaments and Armaments and supported what he thought was right. They proposed the service, the A/HSH suggested, the Chiefs suggested. There are four-five articles and paragraphs in the bill in which the Minister, who was A/HHIMA, was, but he said, "A/HIMA" and more now he says as Minister. I'll tell you why. The man has no idea about this bill, because he didn't bring it. Mr. King brought it through SYRIZA's party bureau. They said so, 'take it and support it', and that is why it has been in great difficulty for the committees to support those which are not supported. What is the answer, Mr. Minister, Mr. Apostolakis, to the military? That for the objectivity of the crisis to a citizen who wants to nurse and claims to be a conscientious conscientious objector, "do you lose" your colleagues and put teachers in order to enhance objectivity? Do you understand what damage you're doing to the army? Incalculable damage.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u56	Say something else. You said that. There's a lot of provisions in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u57	Three things are cozy, my lord, that you want to interrupt me. They're key to this bill, so we're gonna vote against it in the first place. I'll tell you something else. There is no doubt that we will'solve' it all when we come to the government, even if the Greek people choose it. We'll keep whatever article is in the right direction, because we don't see with party glasses like you, but the bill will "remove", because we won't allow you to dismantle the Armed Forces, because you won't allow you to do things for the sake of your party and against the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. The reason for this is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Arvanitides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u59	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the study presented by the Minister of National Defence and by many Ministers and the Government in general, as is evidently stated by the large number of bills that have been put forward for vote in the last few years, clearly shows one thing, namely that the government is trying to close down - as important matters in this case too - national defence issues. She is trying to close them under pressure of election and reduced social acceptance. You resort to compulsion, hiding "under the carpet" the country's serious issues and especially in the field of Armed Forces. The bill you bring today only aspires to fix the government's image without any vision of the Armed Forces, without an approach to the real needs of the Armed Forces' human resources, with a diffuse sketch in its constitution and in the way it was consulted. In fact, as I said in committee, there was, in fact, a virtual, virtual consultation, since the original text is far from that of the bill we are debating today. It is a bill with a dominant spirit "to suit all those who supported us". You are asking us to vote on photographic provisions and articles that, in our view, take us back. With this bill, the government has unfortunately once again dealt with minor issues and not with the great, important and hot issues which concern the Armed Forces. In an unstable geostrategic environment, that of the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean, which our country is invited to attempt with its Armed Forces and to play a decisive role in developments, with the aim of defending national rights and interests, you do not show the necessary vigilance. Do you have to tell us, Minister, you from the Minister's position, but from the previous one - and I am referring to Mr Apostolakis, who was an AUTHORITY - and above all your predecessor and the government as a whole, of the four years that you have governed what you have done to solve chronic problems and serious issues of national importance? What did you do for the Armed Forces? What kind of work do you leave? What problems have you solved? What are you lacking to do in this direction? Knowledge, experience, will? You brought a bill under the circumstances. You could, however, write your own story and connect your name to the radical resolution of dating and important problems, solve decisive and catalytic issues for the Armed Forces, thus facilitating their work, issues that could support in a variety of ways the Armed Forces and create questions of success and national pride. Unfortunately, Minister, you have not done so. In every country that would like to call itself serious, autonomous and civilised, such as ours, those who are responsible for and recommend proposals for a solution that could dismantle and take off the effectiveness of the Armed Forces. I could give you briefly some of these serious time-consuming issues and national issues, which should be recorded on your agenda and for which you should have shown greater importance. The first issue is the restructuring of the Armed Forces. It should be made clear to everyone that there is no room for loss of time. The legislative reductions in the defensive budgets for the coming years require our immediate adaptation. It is now necessary, more than ever, to rationalise our structures at every level, to improve the management of available resources, human and other, to avoid any unnecessary waste, to improve management in the planning of the development of defence capabilities, to eliminate functions and to eliminate any factor that does not contribute in the right direction, with the aim of maintaining and improving the combat capacity and power of the Armed Forces. Secondly, the important issue is the relaunch of the Armed Forces. The morbid establishment of devaluing everything in the Armed Forces is time to deal with it in order to redeem the army and function rationally. A key aspect of the bourgeoisie is the creation of consciousness, ethos and values, as key factors for the success of the mission and work of the Armed Forces, including the leadership of the army, through the improvement of the framework of a worthwhile and objective assessment, promotion, taking over high-responsibility positions, as well as the restructuring of the institutional framework of education, specialisation, training and retraining of Armed Forces officials. Thirdly, the establishment of a common defence policy in national matters, to ensure national sovereignty by setting up a permanent supra-party national security council. As the challenges and instability of our geopolitical environment grows steadily, the lack of a modern, dynamic and coherent strategy of culture within national defence and security is evident. Fourth theme is the introduction of procedures for the implementation of armaments programmes in the Armed Forces, in the light of the safeguarding of national sovereignty and integrity. All of us must be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the Armed Forces are the common property of Greek citizens. All stakeholders should make best management of the country’s reduced resources for defence. At this point, I would like to point out the fact that our country declares its share of GDP for defence expenditure of 2,36%, above the NATO limit, namely a total amount of EUR 4,6-4,7 billion, including military pensions. However, defence expenditure amounts to EUR 530 million, i.e. 11.6% of the total. And I ask myself: how will our country respond to satisfactory availability with these figures? Fifth theme is the participation of the Armed Forces in the upgrading of the domestic defence industry, with a view to its autonomy and the creation of multiplier economic processes for the national economy. Among other things, an improvement is needed in the procedures for linking the defence industries' action with the medium-term armaments needs of the Greek Armed Forces. It is also necessary to implement the European directive on security of supply and information, through the full activation of the National Defence Industrial Strategy, to establish a single defence and other procurement authority, with powers on defence industries, with co-responsibility for decisions on how to award defence supplies. Mr Minister, instead of dealing with such critical issues at a level, you are dealing with secondary issues. I fear that the draft law you have brought to the vote is a step forward in improving and restructuring the Armed Forces, although you have had the opportunity through consultation, but also those that have been discussed with the institutions to improve it. Even some of the right articles, you made them immediately after consultation. Although our analytical position on the articles has been presented to committees, I consider it appropriate to refer to key issues of the bill which, in our view, affect the effectiveness of the Armed Forces, such as: Firstly, their human potential and particular issues of career development and care for executives, students of military academic institutions, term, military new and conscientious objections in the light of objectivity, justice, a single principle of exploiting, evaluating, rewarding and rewarding, in order to really support the Armed Forces in the worthy executives who can make a difference. Secondly, institutions and bodies that can reform the Armed Forces. Minister, through articles dealing with individual regulations, you are working on issues which do not strengthen the equal treatment of officials of similar origin by not respecting a common principle, a fair and equitable attitude to the whole army, such as those which are being promoted through the provisions on long-term volunteers and the volunteers of the Armed Forces. How, then, will we rely on the merits of the Armed Forces when staff are not dealt with on specific objective, transparent and fair criteria, based on the successful offering of each of them to the work of the Armed Forces? Clearly, our individual proposals must be heard, with regard to the objective and transparent treatment of Long-Security Volunteers, in order to restore injustices to specific categories and groups of staff. Your concern, Minister, must be to examine the needs of the staff as a whole. It is necessary to examine and draw up a study, which will examine all categories of personnel, in the specific transparent and objective way, taking into account the background of each group, the overall work of the Armed Forces and the catalytic role of each one. All this, of course, is in the light of a vision of the Armed Forces' tomorrow, with the aim of maintaining the country's peace and security. If you had the courage, Minister, you should withdraw the staff-related provisions and make an overall and objective study of the matter. On the other hand, the bill contains photographic provisions that, instead of aiming to modernise ASAs and ASAs in order to meet modern requirements, try to create light service or office service phenomena. You know very well how important it is to lay the right foundations for students of ASEAN and ASEAN, who are the nurseries of tomorrow's fighters, leaders and supporters of this great work of the Armed Forces. They do not mean provisions, for example: firstly, pupils in special situations in military schools who, for various health reasons, have been deleted from them for various reasons, now can be put into office or light service. It is, in our view, a good provision for pupils on health grounds, but not for those areas where nothing less than optimal and excellent should not be acceptable. The students of the Faculty of Icarous, who were deleted from it in the first year of study due to volatile infidelity, are now being given the opportunity to return to the Armed Forces until the age of twenty-four years and to re-entry them into the Icarus School, transferring them to one of the ground directions. It is for us purely photographic provision of satisfaction for certain individuals, without proving the feasibility, equitableness and justice that the provision is invoking. There are other provisions which, instead of aiming at a balanced utilization of the military youth that we so much need, become problematic in each side. The bill also contains provisions that try to manipulate the personnel of the Armed Forces and not to exploit it objectively and fairly by respecting specific principles, such as the relevant article on the creation of executive offices. An unprecedented and special provision, which refers to other staff management and manipulation seasons, shall be promoted. As I said to the committee, the Legal Protection Offices have already shown that they will fail. Their subjection to the leader concerned only raises concerns. The Armed Forces cannot be modernised with such offices. This requires an entirely independent institution, the Military Counsel, beyond the military hierarchy, something like the Citizens' Counsel, which will, of course, be subject to the Minister of National Defence, with the obligation to report directly to the Minister. Also important are the remarks made by the Scientific Council of Parliament, which I hope you will take them seriously, such as Article 36 in relation to military judges, where there is no effective, reasonable and reasonable reason to treat military judges from the Military College of Officials in relation to those appointed under a competition, for example, as the age limits are increased for the second category only, without any substantive, reasonable and valid reason. In order not to institutionalise this unequal treatment, the relevant provisions should apply to all military judges regardless of origin. Finally, Article 40 and Article 50(5) promotes provisions that do not favour the harmonisation of the country in the regulatory framework of the European Union and NATO military specialised issues. In particular, the military airworthiness of the European Union Defence Agency and NATO's civil airworthiness for the Armed Forces. Article 40, which refers to the serious issue of the National Military Authority of Certification, is essential for the country and the defence industry. The creation of this institution is a matter of harmonisation at national level of the Regulatory Framework of the European Union Defence Agency and NATO Security Policy for the Armed Forces and the Defence Industry, both which our country has signed for harmonisation. It should be noted that the Member States of the European Defense Agency and NATO have already established a respective National Military Authorities of Certification, namely France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Italy, Hungary and other countries, which are directly attached to the Ministers in accordance with the above two regulatory frameworks. The framework, however, is not considered sufficient. Significant deficiencies and errors in placing under the OHIM and the mission of the National Authority to be established are identified. This does not guarantee its independence and validity, but also the imposition of legal sanctions on entities that will develop products or weapon systems incompatible with international standards. In addition, this draft law does not deal with the organisational structure and functionality, staffing, qualifications and duties of officials of the National Authority as is done with other services, such as the establishment of the Civil Aviation Authority and restructuring of the Civil Aviation Service, for the application of national and European legislation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will take very little time from my dentistry. Following the above, we propose that the provisions in question be withdrawn and examined together in a separate, independent draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, in the modern, complex and unstable geopolitical environment of the eastern Mediterranean, where our country, the Armed Forces, as a key pillar of stability, receive no added value from this bill, nor is there any preventive strategy for their role. We at the Change Movement suggest the following: To implement the redesign of their organisational structure, to increase their flexibility. A recent special comicotragic example is whether or not transported to the 32nd Marine Brigade. You finally decided, Minister, what are you going to do with it? Will the functionality and availability of all existing material be restored with a view to increasing or restoring availability where necessary? Revision of the institutional framework of the Armed Forces for Officers and Officers by revision of Law 1400/1973 on the Status of Officers and drafting a new law on the Status of Officers. Drawing up a law on the state of the lieutenant. All laws relating to the development of military personnel. With a view to military leadership, effective management of changes and challenges and particular attention being paid to the human factor. To dictate the training of staff from the principle of continuing learning, adapted to new technologies. Procedures to ensure the correct and rapid decision-making of operational decisions. Finally, the decision-making criteria to take into account efficiency, namely the efficient use of scarce resources, transparency and efficiency. Such features should have the bill and any bill concerning the Armed Forces. And because the Minister - and I am closing with this - from the Gulf of the Navy, I would like to remind him - that although he is absent - the words of Admiral Koundouriotis in the battle of Greece, for human capital: "Caravas without sufficient inspiring material is lead, sinking in water." I am tabling our proposals in the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u60	Mr Famelos, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor. He wants to talk about his amendment. But we have to say this. She's in a hurry. But if colleagues ask to speak, you must remain, Minister. The subject of the amendment is a regulation of matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, namely, an amendment - supplementing provisions of No 4042/2012. Before you take the floor, Minister, to announce the presence of a school here. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", 50 students and students and three teachers from the 4th Kalamata High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the amendment we have tabled and will be discussing today concerns the abolition of the burial fee for the disposal of waste and the introduction of the environmental contribution of a circular economy. And because I have to explain why it is being introduced to today's sitting as an amendment, I will tell you that this arrangement had been put into public consultation along with the regulation on the pricing of waste management operators. This week's publication of the Invoice Regulation also brings the regulation into line, because this was the commitment of the Ministry of the Environment to self-government, that these two regulations will be adopted at the same time. This regulation is a substantial change in the cyclical economy in Greece. To date and by law of 2012, the special burial fee had been set. The special burial fee, however, I must inform you that it has never been implemented. Every year, Parliament, with a recommendation from the relevant ministries, suspended the application of the burial tax and we had a unfortunate kite of inability for the state and self-government to go ahead with a regulation that was objectively based - it was about preventing burial - but it was not implemented. What for? First of all, because this regulation of the n. 4042 was not combined with measures to encourage different waste management, with substantial measures to support recycling or the infrastructure of a circular economy and waste recovery. It was therefore a deterrent, but therefore it had only become fragmentary or ineffective. That's why the state either couldn't stand or never wanted to implement it. The second was that it linked the burial fee to the municipalities, but not to the waste management bodies, which are the municipalities managing the facilities and could therefore impose or collect the burial fee. The financial burden anticipated by Law 4042 was too great, it was 35 euros in tone, if you wish, at the expense of the burial operators. His proportionality was problematic. At the same time, it did not provide for the arrangement that this would be returned to the actions of the circular economy and recycling, because it also had to give way. Therefore, it is amended - and, in fact, it is abolished - the burial fee. The Cyclic Economy Contribution is now introduced. I must tell you that our country is now one of the first ten European Union countries to have a strategic circular economy submitted to the European Union in agreement with the Economic and Social Committee and all the productive players. Recently it is the first Cyclical Economy Forum to be held here in Athens. This measure is an integral part of the decision of the Governing Council of Economic Policy and of the policy on the circular economy. So what are we planning and what are we doing today? To be paid by the solid waste management bodies to the Green Fund a fee of EUR 10 per tonne of available solid waste starting from 1-1-2020, i.e. after eight months. At the same time, this amount will be increased by EUR 5 per year if the municipality that is subject to this levy continues not to meet the obligations of European waste disposal policy. It will be available exclusively for the financing of circular economy projects. In other words, it will only strengthen recycling in the municipalities which, because of their lack of development, are obliged to pay a circular economy contribution. In fact, to speed up procedures there will also be a clear road map for municipalities. In other words, municipalities that do not have any solid waste recovery and treatment activities will have an obligation to pay EUR 10 tonne. However, when there is an environmental authorisation for a plant, i.e. procedures for preparing the circular economy units have been started, there will be a 35% discount on this 10. And when there is a legal commitment, i.e. a contract, this circular economy and waste treatment unit is installed and built, there will be a 70% discount, while when the waste treatment plant operates and their exploitation, there will be no municipal contribution. There will be a calculation every six months of this contribution. In the next quarter the waste management body will leave the account from the quantities landed without treatment. All reductions, recycling achieved by the municipality, will be taken into account and the environmental contribution will then be paid. This practically means that the waste management bodies throughout Greece, now set up and organised on the basis of Klisthena, Law 4555, will be invited in June to draw up a pricing policy to send it to all municipal councils, as provided for by Law 4555 and Law 4496/2017. Therefore, all municipal councils in the country will have a discussion on recycling, reducing the cost of management due to recycling and contributing to a circular economy and its exploitation. There will be no housing for solid waste anymore. Numbers, results will be available to the citizen. Self-government and our society will be evaluated and we will have full information, in the end, on what is being done with waste management. Because I have to say to you that there were no data and no reliable databases so far. Thus, the payment of the FVC contribution will be checked and the corresponding reference will be made to the Secretariat-General for Waste Management. Let me just say that the regulation does not provide for any restriction on the allocation of this amount in respect of the Green Fund. In other words, this contribution is not subject to the limitations of the Green Fund introduced by the previous governments. Incentives will be given to self-government to develop recycling and the cyclical economy, essentially for a new waste management model. Because I have to tell the National Representation that since 1 January 2019 a separate collection of waste for all recyclables already and for organic waste for all municipalities and all public bodies and public meeting places is compulsory. Finally, let us inform you that the Ministry of the Environment is ready to provide the municipalities with classified access to the Electronic Waste Register, so the waste management bodies will have access to a register that will monitor the whole management of waste with reliable data and comparatively so that all the regulations that we are introducing today can be effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u62	The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Kouzilos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since 2017 SYRIZA has said he will bring a bill on the reconstruction of the army. But, actually, what we saw now is what it was? We see an election bill. The Deputy Minister of National Defence in March at a radio station stated: "The bill has a social sign for a fair system." A social sign is also the statement he made - and SYRIZA has done so as well - that we will increase the wages of the ghost from EUR eight to EUR thirty, if and if the financial possibilities allow. If that's not election statements, what is it? A social sign of compliance with European directives on conscientious objections. You say 'conformity', but it's not compliance. Just, as Mr Vitsas has said, and the Prime Minister at the IGC has said so, this is a constant request from the young people of SYRIZA. But who are the conscientious objectors and who is this youth in SYRIZA? Perhaps they are not lullabies, as you said, who said your executives, are not people who don't believe in the army, etc.Huh? They are those who are arrested in Exarchia to burn the Greek flag, those who are arrested because they do not serve and believe in their homeland, in religion, do not believe in anything. Legislate about them. A social sign without the federation, POMENS has no reason in this bill. I read the communication from TOMENS: “We were surprised to hear that on 8 March 2019 the new draft law of the Ministry of Finance was put into consultation. Unfortunately, during the preparation and drafting of the bill, POMENS was never called upon as a permanent institutional representative of the military in operation to express its views on the issues dealt with in it. We wonder, the Federation says, what kind of institutional representation the Deputy Minister publishes. What's the reason he didn't invite us? What is the reason why the proposals we had at times formulated on issues relating to military matters have been ignored?' I would also like to ask: as a political leader and a former trade unionist, as the Deputy Minister said, is he proud now of this announcement, that even as a former trade unionist he did not respect what you brought from trade unionism? During the hearing of the bodies, we saw how much problems you did and how you legislate were created with this bill. What about the reason? Because she legislates SYRIZA's youth. You said so, SYRIZA youth's requests and not military requests. You'll tell us, there's a positive one in this bill. A positive one, which came as an amendment - yes, that is the restructuring of the army - is the amendment you brought for ODA. Yes, but you brought it to an amendment. There wasn't any inside the body of the bill. So for the good news, I'm telling you again, don't celebrate and say you're doing good. You just did what you needed, your job. I will now go to the first part of the bill: 'Health care and careers'. At the hearing we noted all the problems that exist. What did we all say? There is no consultation, no one has been consulted, you have legislated on your own, and we have seen all of this with how many legislators we have all asked for this bill. If that's not sloppy, gentlemen, then what is it? And at some point I asked the Deputy Minister when the legislators will be accepted and who will be accepted, so that we will know what we are doing. Do you know what the answer was? ‘We'll see.’ For a bill that would come in two days, when we knew the bill in 2017 that it would come, the answer was "we'll see". If that's not sloppy, what is it, gentlemen? And I will bring some very simple examples of this bill, such as Article 17 ‘Restoration of a single special account aid’, does not regulate the granting of one-off aid to all executives who have been deported during the period from 1-8-2012 to 31-12-2016. Article 10 ‘Amendment to Law 3883/2010’ does not indicate the retroactive effect of Law 1848. To see how simple things could be done, if you had spoken, if you had had been consulted by those who should rather than by SYRIZA youth. Regarding Chapter II, "Political issues", for us there is a question of a substantial term of office, adapted to the country's service needs. Surely there are special cases, such as health issues, as mentioned in Chapter II. One is that all Greeks should fulfil their military obligations. That's what we're sitting on. I now come to Article 41 ‘Military Staff IDs’. We were expecting nothing but SYRIZA, the internationalists. We weren't expecting to see anything else. Everyone is asking this question: Will confidentiality be guaranteed? Second question: Can religion be recorded? Of course we won't get any answers, and of course we know what SYRIZA's gonna do. With regard to Article 34, 'Amendment of Article 26 of Law 1892/1990', I would like to ask what you will do with the properties in the border regions. We haven't received a reply yet. And of course, because we have no confidence in you, because you will also do so with a CSU, of course, and we will vote against this particular article. With regard to Article 32, ‘Amendment to provisions of Law 4407/2016’, it was amazed that, while the bill had been deposited, they saw the addition of paragraph 1. Is that what you are saying, that everyone has been informed, that it is in the right direction? Why are those things done in an article that everyone told you would support? And in fact what you are doing is changing your own law and under paragraph 1 internally, there are several problems of hierarchy. Mr. Apostolakis when he was OHIM, this particular article did not support it, as it is now. Do you remember that? And now what's changed? Now tell us what's changed. Do you understand why we all tell you that this bill is an election? With regard to Article 15, I will use the statements made by Mr Apostolakis to the committee, that there are misinterpretations by the Opposition on this article. And he said that no one seeks to bypass the military hierarchy. Let us see, then, paragraph 4 of the article in question: 'Specific provisions concerning military complaints provided for by the regulations and orders of the service are not affected by the present'. Right this far. So the Military Criminal Code is not affected. With regard to paragraph 6, the Legal Protection Office shall keep anonymous records of the questions and complaints. So what are you actually going to do? A freckle? Look within an article two contradictions. That's a good piece of legislation than you say, isn't it? And that's why they're all opposed. Is the Military Criminal Code affected? He is concerned with the particulars, such as: The existing official is mentioned hierarchically. The commander is an appeal and the support. The commander shall be responsible for what he does or fails to do the unit he administers. Overarching is a disciplinary misconduct. Complaints are strictly followed by the hierarchical route. And what do you do with this article? What you're saying is conscientious objections lead them to become the rats. In relation to what Mr King said about this article, there were examples of mismanagement and that is why you bring this article, I have two questions to ask him. I mean, isn't there an evaluation? There is. He said mismanagement, financial irregularities, operational problems. Isn't there a mechanism to control? There is. But, we said, SYRIZA's youth runs. We are very concerned, because you are saying in relation to Turkey that you are dealing with things with coolness and determination. Mr. Kikilias before asking a rhetorical question, like: Can't you see what's going on in our neighborhood? Mr. Kikilia, they see what is happening, but, as they have said, and if we connect the puzzle that has been done, they will do what they did in the press. Aegean co-management is the next step SYRIZA will take. That's what it is. And I'll explain immediately what that means. Your bosses have said to you: "Get in front, make the brooks, because Turkey has to leave Russia's arms. Give them the management of the Aegean Sea, return to NATO." That's what you did. And of course, there are statements. You are not hiding because you have said so, and your Members have said that what we want, and we are asking, is that there should be an agreement between the Prespecies and the Aegean. If it's not treason, gentlemen, what is it? There are statements by the Deputy Minister, who says we should find them with an ally Turkey for the FOZ and the Aegean. How are we going to get through with casus belli? Only in management is there. And he comes out immediately after the Turkish Minister, Bajis, and says we need to ensure the welfare of each other. In other words, there is a consensus. And I tabled a timely question on this issue on 30-11-2018. I haven't received one, gentlemen. If there was no such problem, why not answer it? Do you have anything to hide? But, as you did with the Prespes, you arrange and do everything in secret, like the pods, like the thieves. When a government doesn't have anything to hide, it does it clearly. What you're doing is unspeakable. I shall conclude and say that very soon there is a chance that we might see a co-management in the Aegean. Trust we don't have any of you. You have shown it with the betrayal of Macedonia, and you receive it every day. Anything you bring to this bill is purely election. You have seen what will happen both in municipal, in regional and in European elections and in the amendments you are bringing, which you are bombing every bill with amendments, you are trying to increase your percentage. You make gifts everywhere and try to say "we are in favour of the Greek people". That's it. Now the Greek people have taken your ass. He knows you and will punish you in municipal elections, European elections, regional elections and national elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, fifty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th Kalamata High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move on with Mrs Canelle, a special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece. Here, Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President, You would say that such bills could be an opportunity to redefinite - and, if possible, under a wider political consensus, which is impracticable - what 'the Armed Forces' means for this country. They should be the defenders of our sovereign rights, and it should really be what we say'sarx of the flesh' of the Greek people, peoples who come out of their hearts. It's the Greek people, who deprives me of the guns, especially the entrepreneurial potential. He trains it, draws up, sacrifices it with the blood of his soul, so that there are Armed Forces capable of defending the national sovereignty and rights of this people, but above all his freedom. But let's see if this thing is even approaching where it should be with this bill. In our view, the bill demonstrates a central choice of all parties here, excluding the JRC, which is the integration of the entire body of the Armed Forces into the naval specifications, needs, defence of objectives, defence of the great capital, facilities, special training, participation in exercises, so that it is literally determined that the reason for the Armed Forces' existence is determined, that of the Greek people, as well as the Greek people's intent and the economic and the sovereign level. It's very important that someone understands it so I can get it from where the last people left it to this day. Where did all the talk about Skopje and the agreement with Northern Macedonia end? The first act that proves the intention was, which wanted to take it, why it was deliberately done, why what was created under them was the naval needs and the service of the great capital in the Western Balkans. Anyone who has an opposite opinion can only take a look at the first preamble, as if they were already in NATO with four! I'm littering! On May 15, the exercise begins until July 15, called the "Decisive Battle" and will have two thousand American soldiers, two thousand, the whole army, North Macedonia, and some representatives of the Armed Forces from Lithuania! Great democracy, the one that restores together with all the rest of the fascist perception NATO can have imperialist, literally spreading around the world, Lithuania, Montenegro, Albania and Bulgaria! This will be an exercise with thirty, forty and fifty days multiple forms. That was the first concern, the first real act, the first result. Anyone who had the slightest objection to the position of the Communist Party as being nato-inspiration, service, demand and rapid implementation of the agreement with our neighbours now has proof in front of it. So we come to a bill that has individual interventions, both fragmentary and so individual, confirming our perception that it works literally by reproducing the client model within the Armed Forces. It literally reproduces it, so that a group is satisfied today, a group tomorrow, to settle things in such a way that it always finds the next, whether military or political in terms of the leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, some with a stretched hand that wants to settle issues of vital importance. Some of them are in the right direction. But how can you achieve the right direction when you have an army made up of professional executives, i.e. the class of Higher Generating Schools, Graduates of Permanent Staff, Long-Term Volunteers, Professional Armed Insurgents, permanently from ancestors, entrepreneurs and adolescents? What single body? You're gonna tell me it could be the military's modern needs. Do you want me to agree? I'm telling you, I agree that's the way it is. What does that mean? Is there a single perception of the Armed Forces? He'd like it if they didn't. All of the above, as categories, have different insurers, overlapping professional responsibilities, gaps which are not covered, despite the perpetuality. How's it going? How can they be in this complex process, with economic gains irrationally unacceptable and through a multifaceted hierarchical process, men and women of the Armed Forces and, once again, dependent on unification, on relations with political leadership and officials? There are problems with the staff members in particular - which is why I am standing there - which are directed at inferior and higher categories. They are led to repatriation, for example, by executives, regardless of degrees after a multi-annual and seamless service, without the current legislative framework, guaranteeing their full pension entitlement. So it is a fragmented approach. This fragmentation is also expressed in controversy with the trade union part of the Armed Forces. What has been debated so lately - we have tabled an amendment - obviously also enjoys a wider consensus and may go through it. But let's see here how this was created. It was created in a procedural way. However, we must accept that union in the Armed Forces cannot - and it must - be cut off from the body of the workers of the Greek people. It is not possible to surround the military garment by the nature of the people as such. This also means that the trade union rights for coexistence - we are talking about - a secondary body based on the regional primary associations existing in the country. But it is evident from the nature that, because of the allergy of the way, of time, of the Arms and of the qualities, collective rights are essential, as is the case with Law 1264 for the rest of the workers. That is why we are emphatically insisting on this. We have also brought you an amendment, which demonstrates a deeper culture of the urban system and the whole of the parties that serve this process, against the way in which the workers and the majestics which are sometimes expressed are paid for, for the Greek defence systems, which we know and in what form they are and which have been included in the general philosophy, which are weak. The allowance for unhealthy work which is recognised - it has been recognised under previous law - is not paid in certain specialties. We have tabled an amendment to these people, in fact and in essence, to enjoy a right already voted on - as we all have to - from 1-1 to 17, that is, since the other people have been entitled to it. I don't think there's anyone in here who can. But the bills when they come down would have to deal with these issues in a more general context - with which the Communist Party obviously disagrees radically - and no need for the amendments to settle these issues. Let's see what this bill actually brings. If anyone would like to be absolutely honest, he would say that they came into the bill - how to say it - welcoming, timely, helpful, possibly, some portions of military, processes that are baptized "modernisation" and "progress", to hide from under one of the most reactionary things we have seen, very well hidden within fifty articles. Minister, I would like your attention here. In Article 39, if anyone reads it and noticed it well, on the basis of the naval standards that have been placed throughout the country, on the basis of the 2009 agreement, the Memorandum of Cooperation we have signed since September 2009 between the Greek Government and the NATO Headquarters - which has literally allowed a clear vine where the naval forces can settle wherever they want, act as they want, on the alibi that we are the country of NATO - would say that a whole bill was set up to hide it, which is a special light, so that the Greek people, who are not special and will not be able to get a scent. So you come and take a royal decree, a 1950 law, to Article 39 for the reception of ships and war ports. Would someone say: From 1950 to today why not modernise it? But, come on, you're doing exactly the same! Dissolve this service and reconstitute it for what reason? Only if one reads and studys the article, will one understand why. You're resetting something that already exists. Yes, but in the new re-recommendation of this service, what do you remove? Remove any element relating to the formation, establishment of organs, seating and operation. Are these empty words, ladies and gentlemen? Not at all. Because this was provided for by an article, and now it leaves the bill in this article a vast, blurful and unclear landscape. How does it say it will be determined? That's very simple. By Presidential Decrees in the future. Yes, sir. It's in Article 50(2). So we're going to the presidential decrees. If we go to the presidential decrees, what does it mean? It means that we will have conditions of involvement of NATO and the European Union, which will ultimately determine on the basis of their needs, their plans, their interventions, their wars, their surveillance, whatever you want, and the use of terms and procedures and the definition of ships, where they will go and what exactly they will have. While with the previous service we knew where and where they were and who they defined their function and who they could have been. Translation for the Greek people? Naval and Euro-Nathian shipwrecks wherever we want. What about us? Not wherever they want, wherever they want NATO. That is why you have taken an already existing service, which has been in operation since 1950, reconstituting it, leave the gap inside so that NATO can come tomorrow morning to fill the gap and meet its needs. The same is happening to a significant extent at the level of the approach of the National Military Authority of the OHIM. And for planes, that is. The forecast comes and is "swimming" completely in the naval decision taken in July 2013. This 2013 decision wanted this maritime decision to have the political airworthiness of military aircraft and other aeronautical products, as well as the corresponding decisions of the European Defence Agency on the European Harmonised Military Base Framework for Airworthiness Uniforms. Again, then, we will have this procedure and sell out what to the people? That, because the Turks took off BAYRACAR, the unmanned, in the Aegean Sea, we will be very sure that the Americans will come and give us unmanned ships from the North to the South and from the East to the West? With this bill, do we come to make it easier for seafarers to sail to any part of the Greek territory? And this can be seen to be progressive coverage of wounds in the recommendation, philosophy and creation of the Armed Post-war Forces? It is like organising the naval surveillance process for peculiar interests in this place. This is centrally important. So trade unions, pensions, military issues go second, they are overrepresented by the debate in this House in the sensitive election period and you are creating a wrong idea that we are trying to correct things and sufferings of many years. But it has not changed, gentlemen of the SYRIZA Government, your policy towards NATO nor the European Union in relation to the previous governments. It was just the same, helpful, and someone would say over-willingly helpful. Many times exaggerate your previous as successors to the state today and these specific Armed Forces. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr President, perhaps from my second language. Therefore, if anyone stands in little detail, he does not understand why the New Democracy can be so much mourned for the Legal Support Office as if it were the major ones, as if this were to degrade the whole of the country's military. Are there no other things here, at home, which make the meaning "Greek military", "student", "student", "student", "supervision" - whatever form you want to choose - but nonetheless who wears a uniform and comes here to defend Greek rights? And all of a sudden, there is a partisan, who must be willing at all times, to go defending naval interests in Yugoslavia, Iraq, Libya, Afghanistan, the other end of the earth and to be a partner and collaborator with soldiers who literally behave - and officers - from the most fascist and far-reaching form he has ever met after World War II on an elevation to the old egg of the Nazi snake. The comrade, MP Pafilis, told you yesterday about German allowances. Is Lithuania coming down to northern Macedonia to settle democracy, unify the Balkans? We are looking for a role within our Armed Forces, with the lack of the Greek people from the budget to our Armed Forces. Let someone finally listen - not just to serve, but to listen - to the needs of the Armed Forces' officials, the shortages in material, the shortcomings in the manning of units and the way in which they could be structured, listen to people who know them, live and serve them. Of course, they must co-exist and have the same treatment in their place of residence as those who have disabled children and have legal orders and diligence for these children. Will anyone ever object to all of this? But in the deep, undercover, there is no objection from the rest. In this sense, we are obliged, having said in detail where and how we should consent, to settle small scratches - not deep wounds, because they are political and ideological and helpful other interests - in principle, with this orientation, to vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory of sixty-seven students and schoolchildren and seven teachers from the 7th Agrinio High School. The House, guys, welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're on our way to the Special Speaker of the Centro Association, Mr. Saridis. Please have the floor, Mr Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we agreed in this Chamber that it is time to raise our heads with dignity, how finally the time has come to say: 'The truth has ended. Germany owes Greece. End and dash.’ That is what we said yesterday in this Chamber. I call on all Greeks, wherever they are, at all the lengths and backs of the earth, to consider for a moment what this phrase can mean, how important it is that this phrase was said for the first time by the Greek Parliament, by the Greek Parliament. For those who have lost their faith in Greek democracy in the Greek Parliament, and perhaps we have given them the right to lose it, I invite them to remember that the Greek Parliament is indeed too strong. It's so powerful, it can overthrow the result of a referendum. It's so strong, it can give a word to our northern neighbors. It has so much power the Greek Parliament, which can impose memos and turn the state from one of the Greek citizens to one of its potential. So remember how much the power of the Greek Parliament is and, after you do that, ask yourself how yesterday's intergroup unanimity can be used that Germany owes Greece. It is one of those rare, the few, unfortunately, times that there is no mismatch between the will of the Greek people and the Parliament, but that, on the contrary, Parliament has managed to express to the absolute and historical truth and the will of the Greek citizens and the spirit of our worthy ancestors, who have proved their worthy of what they have left us as a bright example. It is demonstrated by their works, by their heroic actions, whose memory is an excellent, extremely good guide for how we modern Greeks should make our decisions. So it's time to raise a head. Germany owes Greece. I would actually recommend that Parliament print T-shirts in all the languages of the world, so that we can bruise it, say it as quickly as possible. Speaking of which, I'm coming to the bill. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: is this how we are going to raise our heads? Is this how we're going to raise our head? Are we preparing our country with such legislation to play the role of the pillar of stability in the south-eastern Mediterranean? This is how we are going to play the role of the leader of the Balkans? So, in this way, will we force Turkey to think it is time to withdraw its occupation troops from the island of Cyprus? With legislation like today, with this parliamentary image that we presented in committee meetings? Is that missing from the Greek Armed Forces of the country? We as the Central Association would expect, for example, a procurement bill to be within the priorities of the Greek Government. Is that her first priority? It's all the rest, isn't it? The fact that we have empty camps shouldn't we see it? Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate and find a lack of seriousness between us. I particularly address you, ladies and gentlemen, who basically define yourself as left-wing, and your views on the Army and the Police are well known and, in my opinion, move to the limits between imagination and rather ignorance. You who are so comfortable talking about militia, job cuts, closing camps, tell me: Did you know before the recent interview by the Minister of National Defence how many of the stateless in our country were? Did you know? I knew it, but I couldn't tell you, because it was classified as classified. Until some time ago, this particular information was classified. So I was informed in a responsible and responsible manner by the Ministry of National Defence, when before, under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr. Kammenos, in the exercise of parliamentary control, I asked me to find out how many the stateless were in this country. I was asking this - like many others - at the very time I was trying to prepare for the 2016 and 2017 summer bills, which concerned our country's defence. I'm talking about those bills you've always brought unintentionally, always lately, always without any briefings. What can we talk about, ladies and gentlemen, about the unscrupulous, about conscientious objections, deserters and in general all those who can do anything to prevent fanatics from going? You didn't even know how many people are until today. You were not even concerned about this until the new Minister had to admit the size of the problem to the public, and no one had to deal with it. But today I see you willing to legislate for them. So I ask you directly: Have you wondered why this information was confidential until a while ago? The information was well classified as confidential. But have you wondered what need led to its declassification? What was this need for pushing the new Minister of Defence to lead to the declassification of information? Shouldn't you take this into account when we're called in here today to legislate on these people? But shouldn't the slightest side of our decisions, on the other hand, concern you when we talk about the country's national defence? Can you consider the operational consequences that exist on the basis of what we are legislating today? And why am I saying that? Have you ever bothered to understand how we see what we are doing here, for example, the engineer who has signed it to throw Greek planes away in the Greek sky and defend our national interests? Have you ever bothered to see how we legislate in here? The way in which we legislate on the issues of national defence is not the one that suits the seriousness of the Turkish threat, the 'Open East', as we call it. Clearly we should see how these people will have to solve the problem that has been created in them. Clearly! But, on the other hand, should we not find that this is how the principle of equality is disturbed? Shouldn't we see that we have empty camps right now, that the services can't get out right now? What message do we give these people who are going to serve their homeland at the border? In the same irresponsible, unresponsible and clipping way the military, with a summer's delay, came from what we call 'night', the famous Kozobol amendment, as the media and the various sites had written. Those of us who were warning - you know - about the dangers of this amendment, we saw yesterday, after our great regret, the tragic results of this amendment in the committees. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this and I will say it again and, if necessary, I will say it again in the future: I have the strong conviction that hypocrisy exists in this Chamber. You are preparing to legislate for Long - Legend Volunteers. But I am very well aware that your interest is very false, because you have not read a single word from the record that you have been sent with their views. In other words, you are not concerned with long-discipline volunteers. And I have proof of my claim. Because when you were given the opportunity to solve the problems caused by the injustice in the retention of double social contributions to long-term volunteers by your vote, you did nothing at all. You absolutely didn't do anything! As you did not take advantage of the opportunity we gave you, when, with the help of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Long-Search Volunteers, we tabled an amendment to that effect, so now I am sure you have not even read the third point of the letter signed by the Long-Second Volunteers, Mr Panagiotou and Mr Karayannis. Can we add what he says to that part of Article 17 of the bill? Will we replace paragraph 2 of Article 15 of Law 2936, as replaced by the first paragraph of Article 7 of Law 3254, with the words referred to in that letter? ‘Their insurance time in the IKA and in the IKA – TEAM shall be taken into account in accordance with the provisions of successive insurance. The time of military service from their classification until the publication of this law shall be recognised as a share-holding time with the mutual funds, without any additional reservation being paid for the period of five years in which they served as volunteers of five years’ service.’. Do you agree with that or not? Do you know the value of words they have for Long Mortality Volunteers? I doubt it. But today, Minister, you have a chance once again. You should see this as the Long-Term Volunteers tell you and put it into the bill, even at the last minute, because I think you're aware, Minister, that's why. I have more questions to ask today. Are you aware of the burden of all the members of the Higher Military Schools of Civilian Staff of the Air Force in the two words ‘a bizarre’ and ‘inevitably’? I refer to the memorial signed by SAS, SASYDA and SEIRE, Mr Slaughter, Rutsios and Kranyas, whose excerpt I read to you: “Our clubs have received a number of complaints because paradoxically paragraph 1 of Article 32 of the draft law creates inequality. The paradoxical nature of the fact lies in the fact that the provision in question in the public consultation of the draft law did not come within it, but appeared in a surprise.’ What else can I comment on? What do you say, gentlemen of the majority? And the questions go on. He responded clearly with a "yes" or a "no" as to whether you understand how important it is for the disabled to be immediately dismantled, now yesterday, paragraph (b) of Article 1 of the decision of the Minister of National Defence No 400/32/82424/C343. You know what he writes there, then? There, therefore, writes: ‘SHERE is defined as persons who cannot obtain all or part of the needs of a normal individual and social life because of a sexual or acquired physical, mental or mental harm and who have an disability rate of 67%’. Did you hear that? Did you hear how disabled people are defined? Where are your sensations? Why does not one of you shout about human rights? Instead of telling you my opinion of this infamous person, as I describe it, I will read to you what Mr Vardakastanis and Mr Lymvias signatories to the contract: "This provision is expressly contrary to the new rightful approach to disability and adopts a definition of disability, which has nothing to do with the general principles of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as well as with the definition adopted by the abovementioned Convention." This convention, ladies and gentlemen, we have ratified as Parliament in Greece in 2012 with Law 4074. Do you understand what we're saying? There is, therefore, a ministerial decision that offends disabled people who are going against what has been ratified by the House. What do you intend to do with it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if I have spent my time, I would like to take a piece of my dentistry. With great surprise and disappointment, with the deposit of the multi-brand plan, I find the incomplete nature of Article 32, in particular paragraph 1, because, in this way, it shares unnecessarily in favour of specific categories, vis-à-vis the Alumni Officers, all the branches of the Armed Forces. If this provision is passed, the result will be the break-up of antiquity, on the other hand, an unequal treatment. The issue is particularly well known and has also been raised and promoted by SASMY, as well as by the other AACC graduates operating in the area. Unfortunately, however, such expressions were not given to the representatives of the AACC themselves. If this provision is passed and embedded in the current legal framework, it will overturn the year of seniority of officers. And because I see that the president is a little pushy, I'm going to close my report with two words about the POMENS issue. I reminded you earlier of the summer evening's late, rough and problematic Kozobol amendment, namely the way the military was imposed. That's exactly what you're doing. So you, the 'first time left', did you in the most irresponsible way, which had never been done so far by a recommendation from the Greek state and by the payment of the Greek nation: you questioned the effectiveness and hence the value of the military hierarchy. The only reason that has become reality is only a few of our fears is the excellent responsibility which the military officials themselves have shown to date and I am talking specifically about the Panhellenic Federation of Military Associations. Suffice it to read what they have submitted to our committee, to understand that in the end the risks of the army being influenced by the abrupt and sloppy introduction to the everyday life of the institutions of trade union representation are much less, since the quality of the officials of the Hellenic Republic's Armed Forces exceeds, endured and healed all the consequences of the political system's failure. Read carefully what POMENS signs on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Ask and Theodore and you will see a message of unity, unity, cooperation and solidarity emanating from the democratic Greek Armed Forces. We are voting'residents' on the draft bill. In the vote we will support several articles from this bill, and for the amendments I will mention in my dentistry, in whatever dentistry I have left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u68	Please, the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. King, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law, ladies and gentlemen, is a product of systematic processing of personnel and of the political will we have to deal with malfunctions, injustices and failures and ensure the proper and effective functioning of the Armed Forces. This is a grid of interventions and updates to mature and chronological problems, even where this government has decided to put an end to it. They are known problems for which military personnel have been discussing each other for years and are waiting for a solution. I would like to inform you that this was reflected by the consultation and by the very positive comments that existed during the consultation and by all those involved in these measures. I would also like to point out at this point that several of the issues discussed in this bill, such as the issue of long-term volunteers or luxurious officials, who have the same health problems or have diligences of people with a problem, were in knowledge of the political leadership long before the SYRIZA Government comes to things. They were issues for which the staff had received assurances from Mrs Gennimatas, for example, during the period of the Deputy Minister of National Defence, that solutions will be found, but no one will do anything until today. That is the only reason why we are bringing this before you today, because we have the possibility and the will to correct what is causing disharmony. That is why our own intervention is amending existing provisions to regulate and improve the most effective thing that is already happening. Ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of the procedure, and the number of comments from the consultation and hearing of the bodies, it is clear that the whole of the Armed Forces House, the staff of the Armed Forces, considers this draft law to be a good one. Proposals and remedial remarks obviously and well have been. That is why throughout the consultation we have heard and corrected enough of them or incorporated, if you like, comments and the Minister, because we had the good intention of accepting what was right to say to us. After all, this is the point of a fruitful dialogue, not of a reasonable obsession and one I would say - as it may seem here and in the committees - of an ownership perception of the part of the Armed Forces. The bill largely deals with issues relating to the care of the Ministry of National Defence for permanent military personnel, for soldiers fulfilling their military service and obligation, as well as issues relating to the irresponsible objections of conscience and other administrative procedures. In summary, first, the members and armed forces of the Armed Forces shall be given legal support by officials of the Legal Council of the State in the proceedings in criminal courts for offences attributed to them in the performance of their duties. It is a provision for a situation which in the rest of the Security Council has been in place for many years and, if you like, incorporates the democratic right to have this support, as is the case with all civil servants. We also have the recommendation, for the first time, to the Armed Forces, the Legal Protection Office, in which executives can appeal in cases where their rights are affected by any acts of maladministration or omission of the bodies of the service. Here, because there has been a lot of discussion and obviously it is not a matter of ignorance, it is a matter of how we deal with maladministration, and I also explained to the committees that it is in the hierarchy, that there is no violation of any hierarchy, that is all in the general staff. And obviously, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Armed Forces are not in a glass. It is within the Greek society and any influence, positive or negative, that accepts them to a small or to a large extent, does not matter, but these are exist. Of course, the Constitution defines otherwise the Armed Forces, as it also identifies the judicial authority and the logic of Members. However, ladies and gentlemen, have we not seen so many years, in many cases, in all these areas, problems and maladministration and management, but also omissions, despite what the Constitution defines? Also, in the bill, there is provision for reduced working hours for executives who have, or have, a child or a disabled person of 50% who suffer from type A diabetes mellitus, as well as for the possibility of serving at the place of preference the staff of the Armed Forces who are having health or disability problems or suffer from diabetes themselves or persons of their family. There is still provision for students of all military schools who come during their study with health problems, so that their expulsion is not self-evident and just, but enable them to stay in the Armed Forces. I heard something and she feels sorry for me. Serving in public education for many years, I have to say that it's important what you tell children and with what valuable elements you give them the opportunity to be the next day. When - for example - we think that someone can and must leave because he has received a health issue and has been expelled after three and a half years or four before he goes out of school and then falls into Kavala again of society and tries to make a new start - and the majority of these children have come up with high ratings - it is like that the Greek Armed Forces cannot use them elsewhere and deliver to other objects. Furthermore, it is possible to serve at a place of preference the members of the Armed Forces with threeteen and tenacious families. You know very well - as in the case of the militarisation - that for all of the three-tier and multi-textile families the institutions have spoken to them with positive comments. There is also a provision to ensure that the single sums paid retroactively in 2018 as the restoration of older injustices are excluded from income and that no stipulation is made of the payment of any kind of social benefits and benefits linked to income criteria, with an arrangement concerning all payees with special wages in the Security Body, musicians, medical staff, etc. I don't think that anyone can think of that as a pretext either. For four years, in a difficult economic period that we have had and a difficult agreement, for four years that New Democracy has been calling for elections, all the positive measures that we take and give back to the Greek people would be improper. There is still the graduation of the Long-Term Volunteers to the extent of the lieutenant and the corresponding award of the demilitarisation of the lieutenant and the possibility of their stay as an EIO, thereby ensuring that they are able to obtain a full pension. Coverage is now provided to uninsured beneficiaries for medical treatment in military hospitals. It is also planned for all third-family children a reduced term of office to eight months in the Drought Army and nine months for the Navy and the Air Force. For all the children of multiple families, the term of office will be six months. Unsubscribed persons shall be allowed to settle their military obligations without additional charges if they are registered by the end of 2020. I also told you in committee - and I can inform all parties, because I do not want to make this publicly - how much improved the presence and classification of these children in the Armed Forces since these arrangements have been. These children and their families have experienced a very long and difficult economic period. They are the children who now wanted to go back to our country, because the economic situation in the country is improving, and these children have to deal with their military issues. For conscientious objections, in the context of the restoration of the principle of equality and equality, the age limit is reduced from thirty-fifths to thirty-thirds for redemption, and I think this is particularly important. The duration of the alternative service of the opposition shall be equal to the maximum time of the actual military service of the soldiers, which shall be regulated at the same time as the armed service of the 12 months. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, you will allow me to say two things for the committee, which examines requests for entry into the alternative term, that it acquires a majority of universities. I would like to say to you: The first effective response to the problem is recorded in 1997, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. Then, for the first time, the Greek state regulated the issue, recognizing the possibility for those who refused religious or ideological reasons to serve the Armed Forces, because their conscience does not allow that. So in democratic societies - as I hope we will all agree - consciences are not all the same, nor is there a majority conscience imposed on the minority. To the extent that New Democracy Members are keeping something from their liberal tradition, they may understand what they are saying. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Give me, Mr President, and the rest of my dentistry. This 1997 regulation was then imposed because there were convicted decisions for our country, since our fellow citizens were imprisoned in military prisons for disobedience and made redundant under conditions after a long period of imprisonment. The problem was strong and there was so that in the 2001 Constitutional Review the interpretative statement referred to in paragraph 6 was incorporated into Article 4 of the Constitution. It is expressed that every Greek citizen, if he bears a weapon, is obliged to contribute to the defence of the patronage, according to the definitions. And there it was incorporated that those who have a documented objection of consciousness about the execution of an armed or general military service may have an alternative term of office, that is, outside the Armed Forces. I would just like to say one element, ladies and gentlemen, on the matter of committees. Because the New Democracy rapporteurs in the committees were and did not understand the issues. Firstly, those who are to go to the committee examining the objections of conscience have first passed the health committee. So the sanitary has done the examination on the health part. This committee shall examine only if and if it has reason to be conscientious. There, then, has no reason to be part of one of the health parts. Thirdly, scientific training - I would like you to say this sometimes in public - is very important. No one disputes neither the framework of military roles and hierarchy, nor their abilities, nor anything else. So specialization on such issues needs the corresponding scientists, as within the Armed Forces, the respective scientists do specific things, and that is a key element - if you want - of development in a society and science. Furthermore, there is provision for a specific rate in excess of the total number of participants for candidates in military schools from the fire-fighting areas in July 2018 and the flooding on November 15, 2017, the addition to the EUROCONTROL allowance retained for civilian staff in the National Meteorological Service, the care for the risk and disability allowances received by the officials of the Armed Forces. It would therefore be expected that none of this would be considered to be left-wing ideas or an attempt to dismantle the Armed Forces. Unfortunately, you are going to cover the great acceptance of all these regulations that, as I have said, previous governments have not had the courage to do so, much more than the moment when it comes to the Armed Forces. I would also like to make a comment here. Obviously, in the Armed Forces, we have done a great deal with few, reduced financial resources - because you have brought the country to this edge of the cliff - we have managed the remarkable to exist and at the same time to make a change in structure. This means better addressing the existing problems that we have as a country or, if you like, the risks that our country may have. So, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, no one has anything to say, but you have omitted a number of things which, for example, concern the issue of supplies. This bill will come too. Of course, there is also the debate on equipment or anything else that is going on in the Committee on Equipment and there is a possibility of saying too much. Two things I've been saying lately. There will be an amendment to the IMIs, which will make up thirty-five years of pensionable service regardless of age. So we erase the age limit of fifty-eight and ensure that all NGOs guarantee full pension entitlement. There is an amendment to the ODAs, according to which the right to stay in the Armed Forces for three years will be granted, because we need it, it is through the general staff. Finally, Mrs Canelley said about airworthiness and connected it with other things. I accept it, it's an approach, I respect it, but it's not like that. What must be done is, respectively, as with the Civil Aviation and the military planes and the ships. It is essential to have this, to have such a service, so that they can be effective and at the same time to have control either for accident hazards or for anything else. There is also an amendment from the Communist Party of Greece concerning the allowance for unhealthy work in the NSAs. This amendment is in the right direction, but I will not accept it, because in the next few years we are already preparing an amendment relating to the total unhealthy work allowance. It's known in the unions. I've informed them, Mr. Paphie. It will be an integrated amendment concerning this unhealthy work allowance they have received. As far as heavy goods are concerned - because heavy goods are concerned, nothing changes - we expect the results of the committee, which will be an overall assessment of heavy goods vehicles and there will also be a debate on heavy and unhealthy ones. This is a separate allowance which - they know before the amendment - is in the right direction. Just leave me the margin immediately after the holidays, which will be ours, to complete the issue of ODA. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a legislative improvement in the amendment by mobilising experience in the submarine and warships of the Navy. It corrects the wording of the article of the amendment and the regulation on the applicable procedure is made more complete and precise. With the promoted legislative improvement it is clear that these are procedures for the recruitment of permanent civil servants and it is laid down that they will be drawn up in a single table. The experience in submarines and warships of the Navy in accordance with Article 26 of Law 4258/2014 shall be determined on the basis of precisely modulation categories, in order to include firstly the experience in tasks or projects related to the position modulated with seven units per month and a total of up to eighty months and, secondly, the experience gained from the provision of services to submarines and warships of the Navy in accordance with Article 26 of Law 4258/2014, which is quantified at twenty points per month for the first thirty six months and seven points per month up to eighty four. It is necessary to be able to continue with the needs and tasks that exist in this part. Thank you very much. Refusing to vote such a bill makes you, if you wish, accountable to the eyes of all those who are at the moment rejoice and, above all, feel relieved of these predictions and at a difficult time. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And this is the government which is trying to relieve, to give the opportunity to the whole world - which, in the past, has been difficult to achieve, has been hit by the policies of the New Democracy and PASOK, these governments - at this time, pushing the head high. Mostly there are these people in the Armed Forces who have supported them in an excellent way. It is an honour for me and the Minister, who have the political leadership of the Armed Forces, to offer this and honour the offering of these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Pitsirla, has the floor to support an amendment to the regulation on the competence of the Ministry of Economy and Development. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u71	It is an amendment, the general number 2106 and a special 101, which concerns a number of issues that we did not have to include in the large bill, the multi-legislative bill of the Ministry which was recently adopted and which has five points. The first concerns some legislative improvements to Law 4412/2016. If you see them, they're completely legal, and I don't think we need to eat time at them. The second point concerns the law on public limited liability companies. In fact, we have two changes here. The first relates to the obligation of auditors of a public limited company, if there is a matter of equity, and the board of directors does not take the necessary steps, to have auditors convened to inform the general meeting. The second change concerns the signing of the banks' financial statements. The law provides that the financial statements are signed by a first-class accountant. However, for banks because there is a special control regime, it is planned to be signed - except in the case of a first-class auditor - by the bank's competent CFO. This is the most essential in this amendment. But I think that this is in agreement with the banks too. There's no point. The third point of the amendment concerns the mid-term review of projects implemented by development laws. The mid-term review of the project will be possible, for 50%, and the project implementation body will be able to do so by presenting, of course, the responsible statements of the oaths and the corresponding engineers envisaged for the project. This is an extremely important facility and a speeding up of the procedures for implementing the development programmes, because by setting up the audit committees and in the process of completing these checks, we are being delayed too much. It is therefore possible to carry out an audit at the end by the Committee which is being carried out at the Ministry and the mid-term review can make it possible for the body responsible, if it so wishes. The fourth point concerns the two-year extension for storage centres and distribution companies, which are obliged by previous law to relocate when changes in spatial planning and land use occur. It concerns companies that were legally set up and operated for many years legally, but land use changed and must be relocated. We are giving an extension of two years to this relocation obligation, since in recent years with the crisis there have been very big issues for companies, which must be facilitated, because relocations require costs. That's why we make it easier for them to do it in due course. Finally, at Law 3551/2007 - it is the Law of the Ministry of Shipping - certain provisions relating to repair work are specified during the period when a ship is in the ship repair zone. It is clarified that at that time the crew of the ship will only be able to do maintenance work rather than repair. The second relates to some light diving work that can be done at the radar outside the port, which makes them passable main ships, cleansing, etc., so that it does not have to enter the shipyard. It's about very light work. It is reasonable that there was simply a confusion if or not provided for in the law, and we would make it clear that this work is not provided for. These are the clarifications. I think it's just issues. It's other things we haven't had time to put them in the previous bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u72	Mr Santorinios, Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, will support an amendment on arrangements for the competence of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. The proposed regulation comprises two parts of the substance, both of which relate to the port funds. The first part of this arrangement is trying to address the paradox that existed for many years now, the port committees of the port funds are not designated by the competent body which supervises them, namely the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, but defined by the decentralised administration. That is why the obsolete provisions are being replaced and practical obstacles that exist are being dealt with, because the number of those that one could choose to put in the port committees was very limited. In particular, only politicians, engineers, lawyers and economists were predicted. The range of scientists that can be selected to enter the port funds is widened and is extended to graduates of HEI and TEI, who are relevant to the subject. This therefore harmonizes the composition of the port committees with the corresponding composition of the administrative boards of the local municipal port funds. The term of office will be three years and the term of office of the existing port committees will expire on 31-12-2019, as a transitional phase. The second regulation, which is included in the amendment, provides for the procedure and sets out the legislative framework for the use of parts of the port using the method of granting concessions for specific port activities. The possibility is therefore allowed for ports and municipal port funds to enter into business contracts, investment contracts in order to carry out port activities, but also for ship repair activities in parts of the land port areas, the responsibility of the port funds. In this way, we can also give the municipal port funds and the port funds the opportunity to make the process of concessions, the one that has been made for the ten regional ports which are organisations. This regulation enables us to develop our ports further, because for many years now, there have been investment proposals, and there have been proposals for ship repair, for example, in certain ports, particularly for small tourist boats, there is no framework for this activity to be developed. This provision is made by this procedure, and not in accordance with the established procedure of Law 2971, because the procedure under certain conditions of declaration is not provided for in Law 2971, and the port fund is provided for in this regulation to determine the conditions under which the declaration will be made, as well as the compensation to be granted for that concession. The decision of the port committee or board of directors of the port fund will be approved by the co-rapporteurs who are the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy and the Minister for Finance, in cases where the port funds are concerned, and the Minister for the Interior is added to them, where the municipality is a port fund. The maximum duration of a concession may be forty years, with an addition of 10 more years, in the event that the two Contracting Parties have agreed to do so. The concession excludes any fishing activities, in order not to raise issues with the coastline nature of the ports. A pre-contractual check is also provided for contracts to be concluded, as is the control of the Port Regulatory Authority for the implementation of these contracts. So we are giving the ports of the whole country the opportunity, and to what is not an organisation, to acquire serious investments. And I can already tell you that there are several proposals which, precisely because they did not have the regulatory framework, could not go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, too. Ms. Big Economics, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Armed Forces are making us all proud, because I think they are putting the duty away from their lives. The Armed Forces are an important pillar of our state that defends the national independence and integrity of our country. That is why it is necessary to ensure the proper and effective functioning of the bodies that manage it. Sadly, however, chronic malfunctions and failures are also being addressed in this area, which are only facilitated and promoted by their work. Thus, this draft law, which is the product of systematic processing of all relevant personnel, expresses the government's will to resolve many of the problems and correct injustices by means of the regulations incorporated in it. It is particularly important, on the one hand, that the members and armed forces of the Armed Forces be legally supported by the officials of the Legal Council of the State during the proceedings in criminal courts, for the offences attributed to them as having been committed in the performance of their duties and, on the other, that the establishment of a Legal Protection Office is carried out. These offices are responsible for informing the numerous members of the Armed Forces of what is provided for by the law and the orders of the service, so that the executives themselves are better aware of their rights and obligations and of their actions not to fall into vacant because of ignorance or lack of information. Provisions shall also be laid down in the context of practical care for all members and their special categories. The Ministry of National Defence brings in provisions requiring special protection. They are provisions on the protection of the family and, in particular, sensitive social groups, such as extending the benefit of a reduced term of office to all children of a third party or a multitude of families, further protection and care of categories of military personnel experiencing particular social problems, improving the living conditions of the armed forces' personnel, such as the arrangements for transfers and reduced working hours. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. The personal nature of the fine is clarified, due to inadmissibility and various issues of conscience objections are regulated, such as the equalisation of their term with the armed military obligation to comply with both the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights and the observations made by the Citizens' Counselor. Finally, it is intended to cover the costs of insurance for health care beneficiaries in military hospitals. Furthermore, various issues are dealt with in the training of military personnel of the Armed Forces, such as the re-establishment of the Defence Research, Technology and Industry Council, issues of private primary school and kindergarten, management of the Administrative Maritime Service of Crete, special provisions for pupils in special situations of military schools, and provision is made for the introduction into military schools with defined conditions of the pupils-children or persons affected by the fires of the Attica Region and the floods of Mandra and Nea Peramos. Finally, the institutional framework governing the operation of the Ports Reception and War Use Agency is being reviewed, as the current legislative framework has been overshadowed by developments. As regards the National Military Authority, the existing institutional gap for the airworthiness of military aircraft, as well as military aeronautical products, parts and appliances, is covered and the regulatory framework is established to ensure the desired safety in aeronautical activities. The Greek Armed Forces will benefit from the highest level of safety of the flights of military aircraft as well as their equal participation in allied exercises and operations, while the Greek defence industry, through the certification of certificates issued and licences issued by the National Military Authority of Airworthiness, will be able to design, produce and maintain military aeronautical products and components, providing all the necessary guarantees in terms of airworthiness to the Armed Forces of the country, as well as other countries. To conclude, all the arrangements in this bill are in the direction of multi-level care for military officials and reflect the constant pursuit of the Ministry of National Defence to provide real and immediate assistance in meeting their operational, family, personal needs, thus addressing important institutional issues and gaps that have been difficult to date for our country and its national interests in the field of our national defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u76	Thank you. The Member of the New Democracy, Mr Georgiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, things are happening in this House. I will set an example for you to understand exactly what is going on in SYRIZA Government and for the first time, and how things are done, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u78	I know them well, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u79	A few days ago, the predecessor of the Minister of Defence and your co-pilot, Mr. Panos Kammenos, interviewed the TV station "OPEN". There, among other things, for the draft law, he said: "There are now dangerous things going on at the Ministry of National Defence. It has nothing to do with Minister Apostolakis, whom I consider appropriate and I believe he should direct the Ministry, but it seems that Mr Apostolakis has been undernourished by Mr. King, who does not act as Deputy Minister, but as the KNE's composter at the Ministry of National Defence." Mr. Vitsa, you're joining Mr. Kammenos. Rejoice him! You're probably glad, because when I say about Mr. Apostolakis, they're rushing to say that I'm attacking the former Chief of HNDGS, Admiral, etc. and the current Minister of SYRIZA, but the statements made by Mr Kammenos did not hear anything from Mr Apostolakis. They were friends together in the helicopters. I expected the Minister to make a statement that it is unacceptable for Mr Kammenos's statement that Mr Apostolakis has been promised by Mr. King. But here's how things work. Has anyone seen Mr. Kammenos and his party or any of his Members in the Defence Committee, Mr. Katsiki? Three meetings we held! Mr Kammenos who replaced you in a strange way was missing, and he had so much to tell us about the bill under way and made such a serious complaint by the predecessor. Not only was he missing, but he is missing today from the debate. He didn't come to talk. He said it to "OREN" and then disappeared! And just two hours in the House's Ethics Committee, SYRIZA voted not to waive the immunity of Mr. Kammenos for the complaint Mr. Kourtakis has filed with him, declaring that slandering - here we laugh, Andreas - takes place in the exercise of the duty of the Minister and that a ministerial decision by Andreas Loverdos on Gilenya, for example, should be taken on the occasion and that is why his immunity must be lifted! These, you've made such gifts to them. Anyway, I've said it, let's not say it again. Here we live the asbestos: The slander of Kammenos against Kourtakis and the slander of Polakis against me is during the exercise. It's their responsibility, as Mr. Dritsa judged, so their immunity is not lifted. And so we all understand why Mr. Kammenos, who makes nice spots with some black no-one, did not appear either in the Commission or in the plenary because this is how the jobs are done in SYRIZA, as Vangelis Marinakis revealed today in Nikos Hatzinikolaou. At the time you were shouting about the argument, that is, at the same time that you were yelling about the fight against interlocutory, Mr. Papapas said day after day rather than day, Mr. Marinakis and he took the wish of the Prime Minister to pay 20,000,000 euros for Kalogrisa, "to have" says "an channel of your own". And I have seen no denial from Mr Papapas or from Mr Tsipras on Mr Marinakis' statements, just new insults. Look, guys, there's some lads fighting the complexion, begging Marinakis to pay the dose for Calograchi! That's what happens for the first time on the left. Nice work! Then, of course, you liked Marinakis and Marinakis' money was good money back then. But now we're going to the bill. Why do I react so much to this bill? I'll explain to answer a number of famous journalists' libraries who tell them that the depraves are honoring the first ones. This bill has three main points. The rest is a rousphetological, insignificant and indifferent bill. It solves a number of problems. I have no basic objection. But it has three points which any Greek who loves the Armed Forces would never accept, not to bring them into the bill, not to vote, but it is a sin even to read them! The first is the introduction of these legal offices, that is to say the official introduction of the administration of the Armed Forces. That's horror. All the idea of the Armed Forces, from the first day that has been any kind of army, in any country in the world, is based on the concept of hierarchy. Respect for the hierarchy is the one that ensures discipline and discipline is the light stone, the one that is not without the successful organization of an army. General, over there, I'm sure he knows it. And now comes the SYRIZA Government - I will say again - ideologically consistent with the decisions of the Central Committee of the SYRIZA and says that each one of them, from a soldier of his term to a member of the Armed Forces, can bypass all the hierarchy, threatens his superior and directly addressed to the Chief. This is the complete dissolution of the hierarchy and a regulation not in the context of the democratisation of the army, as I have heard from the Minister. There's no democratic problem with the army. I imagine we all agree that the country's Armed Forces have no problem with democracy! This is a fundamental pre-election and ideological decision by the SYRIZA, which unfortunately is now being served by this Minister. The second issue. We are a country that we are saying that we recognise that we have a great threat from the East and a country where, as we deal with the issues of the Armed Forces, we know that our country's camps have a great deal of subsistence. I am not going to tell the House the real numbers that the unit commanders were telling me when I was in charge of Defense of the New Democracy, along with Tasos Publicsakis. Vassilis Kikilis certainly knows about it. I won't say it for reasons of patriotism. I'm sure the Minister knows that. And the Greek state comes to this country, which has this situation and this threat, and sends the following signal to Greek society: "You must be too foolish to go to the army now. You have to be a sucker with headlines, not to say another word. Because now if anyone says that it is conscientious, it will go to a committee consisting of a majority of teachers and not of soldiers, because we have learned to the committee that this is done for reasons of objectivity, that is to say, we have not trusted the Armed Forces and their officers so far, and we have had to put people outside the Armed Forces to have objectivity. It's a huge insult to the Armed Forces and their history. This committee therefore considers that this gentleman does not want and should not serve his term of office. Until now, if you chose to be conscientious, you had at least three or four months above, so that there would be a level playing field against those who bear a gun and risk their lives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One minute leave me only more than that, Mr President. This is where I want to do a parentheses. Of course, and it is not the same supply in the homeland of a person who serves his service in a certain manner and a conscientious objection. Anyone who serves his term of office on the front line of battle puts his life on the common fund. Conscience objectivity puts on his good time. No relationship with each other, I don't put them in the same spot. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] But the bill comes and what does it say? I'm withdrawing this term of office, so don't feel like you're going to get something, if you say it to me, I've got the committee with the teachers and listen to the best. While you're going to do that alternative service in the unit by now, now you're gonna do it, he says, to the relocations, that is, to the municipality of your area. You'll know the mayor, and he'll give you a social term to clean up your home balcony. One will be on the balcony of his home and he will do his duty by drinking a brewer, and the other will be on the river, Evros or on the islands to protect the country. That's the message that sends this lousy bill! The third point is: Well, we said you're against excellence, we said you have a Prime Minister, who I don't want to call it, laughs at all Greece, but come back and say...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u80	Is yours better?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u81	Oh, it's not! The man knows Greek. Right, you're right that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u82	Yours, where are you teaching them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u83	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u84	I hear you, Mr. Karayannides. Okay, I didn't know all about Tsipra's good Greek. That's what you're right about! I must admit that Alexis Tsipras' fine greek idols couldn't find out! I'm not perforated at every check, no, I'm not!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Georgiadis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u86	I'll be right back. What's he saying? Retrospectively those who had been judged not to be good at their service to stay, all of them! You don't have a good performance and do your service homeland well, or do nothing and "wine" all day long and drink buffalo and watch TV, everyone inside SYRIZA's army! Minister, I'll tell you again and I'll close. It's a pity you connected your name to this bill. That's too bad! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the Trabanthas High School Siatista. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Vitsats, the Minister for Immigration Policy, has asked for the floor to support an amendment. Isn't that right, Mr. Vitsa?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u88	Mr. President, may I speak from Stepma?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u89	Wherever you want, Minister. But it's an amendment, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u90	Yes, that's an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u91	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u92	After listening to the deep analysis in the bill by Mr Georgiadis and, of course, saying a few words very quickly. Look at you, it is well known that you are struggling to create a climate of Greek macarath and you would love to be able to enforce it in practice, in practice, to impose macarthism. Your hopes are fruitful, you will stay with the dreams of power and the bitterness of frustration. We're going to the two of the three points Mr. Georgiadis said, because the third I didn't understand. I don't know if you understood. Look how important it is. The hierarchy is not uncontrolled. The orders are not uncontrolled and soldiers and officers must know their rights and how democratic the hierarchy itself is to come and say, "yes, that's right, yes, they can be helped in this direction" and so the legal support offices are created. Secondly, term as an armed or alternative is an offer at home, it is not punishment. So when you see the extension as punishment, you have misunderstood what military service is. That is what I have heard a moment ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u93	You didn't hear anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u94	You, Minister, have taken the floor to develop and defend your amendment. There are other speakers, rapporteurs, parliamentarians, who are patient to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u95	Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not interrupt. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u96	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kikilia for playing the role of assistant president.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u97	Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u98	But you must also know under the Rules of Procedure that as Minister I can ask for the floor and take the floor. So let go of that. Now, we have proposed an amendment. It is, I would say, an amendment that is seen in the near future. What do I mean? I mean that a number of things that are currently being done by international organisations with European funding tomorrow - and much more - will be done with European funding through the Greek state. For example, the "ESTIA" programme, which benefits twenty-five thousand third-country citizens and stay in houses, apartments, from 1-1-2020, comes to the Greek state. We want to make programme agreements with municipality development, with municipalities, with regions, with non-governmental organisations that are currently carrying out the programme in practice so that the programme can continue properly. Same for a number of other things. Not to say in detail. I have a list of these issues. This does not mean that for a number of issues, there will be no competitions. There will also be competitions there - and at the end - which concern it. The second point concerning the amendment - I shall say its number at the end - is this: today, beyond the individual geographical limitation made by the police, namely the Ministry of Civil Protection, you know that the Director of the Asylum Service lays down the conditions for geographical limitation. But here we have two problems. Firstly, the geographical restriction only concerns asylum, and it also concerns reception, and secondly, that the Director of the Asylum Service should assume the political responsibility that the political leadership should normally assume. We are coming, then, and we say that this responsibility will be assumed by the political leadership, which will define the conditions of geographical limitation, which is not our future - it is perhaps not our present on a number of issues - so that it moves further, faster and more responsiblely on the issue of geographical limitation. Let me also find the number of amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u99	Can I help you, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u100	Help me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u101	It is the amendment with a general number of 2107 and a specific 102.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u103	The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. The criticism Mr Arvanitides and we as a party made in the relevant Standing Committee had four axes: After four years and a few months, this is the draft law that the country needs, the Armed Forces? Where is that much advertised restructuring of the Armed Forces? Secondly, where is that change of structures, under which the worthy of the Armed Forces would be strengthened? Where is the definition of the axes of a common defence policy that would bring us in agreement? And something I have put it ten times, but I have stopped, because it makes no sense - four years and something Mr Vitsas was the first to answer - regarding the cooperation of the Armed Forces with the domestic defence industry. How much we didn't say here, Mr. Vitsa, in the four years. If I'd come back to ask another time-consuming question again, we'd still talk about it. For you four years and two - three months they went to the bronto. Instead, Mr Arvanitidis says, the present bill of imperial law comes with various pseudo-forms or regulations, related to issues that could sustain the main body of a basic draft law. That is our criticism, and that is why we are voting against. We shall vote on specific provisions. In addition to what I said, do we have defence policy issues that we could discuss here and have come to an agreement? With my timely question - which has also shown character - I said to Mr Apostolakis, the Minister for Defence, that from my experience in the committees of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly I had the opportunity to ask - not rhetoric - what is going on with permanent structured defence cooperation within the Union and to get answers to the past vague, but from Mogherini very encouraging that this is going on in twenty-five countries. When I asked if Greece was a shareholder, he said to me: "Yes, he is a shareholder and he is very active." That's very encouraging. I asked a timely question to encourage and say 'we support'. Are we talking about anything in this regard? We're not talking about that. We're making election arrangements here as National Representation. Are there any issues? I mentioned one. Let me mention another one that is in the opposite direction and which is not right. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the National Foreign Policy Council is convened to discuss the proposal made by the Government to set up a National Security Council. Yes, sir. What is the National Security Council? It's a lovable election. He was - I'm supposed to - proposing Potami a long time ago and the National Foreign Policy Council was convened to see this issue. Potami made an emotional proposal to involve former Prime Ministers. He made one - in my opinion - mistaken, but not flying, a proposal. The Prime Minister was supposed to see her very seriously - the Prespes were, in any case - coming to the National Foreign Policy Council and we understood that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was reluctant to see this. Suddenly the National Security Council, a government body, is coming. If you look at his composition, ladies and gentlemen, he is a completely governmental body. I say: 'Well, this Committee on Foreign and Defence Affairs should only discuss arrangements? Is it not a serious body to warn?’ You have not warned it and it is appointed - listen - to the Prime Minister's national security advisor. Six new posts for recruiting staff, secondments, etc. I'm going to ask rhetoric: Well, isn't this part of the CSCE's competence? Well, if the CSCE were activated in this regard or in a specific arrangement, which since 2002 has been inapplicable, wouldn't it cover that gap? Did we miss that government body? We didn't miss him, and we didn't miss him. Incorrectly, Minister, bypassing the National Representation, while it is your Ministry here, this goes for a call to the National Foreign Policy Council to set up a body - I do not know whether you will bring it and I do not know if you have it in mind - such an indifferent body that in nothing will contribute to the security of the country. I have some thoughts to make. First of all, I fully disagree with the criticism made by the New Democracy - I have heard it from both Mr Kikilia and Mr Georgiadis - on Article 22. Article 22 is right. I have the honour to be a university professor, the man I consulted with the late Greedy Arseny, finally predicting the social alternative, and then I listened to what I heard today, that they are lazy, that everyone would go to the army and declare dissent and predicted a huge mandate for these people, who often do a heavier job than others do abroad and here. Here I have supported and supported this regulation for years, and it would be a contradiction for my own political spirit, because I am in the opposition now, not to support Article 22. I support it. I'm closing up on this with no more words. It is right, especially if you see how many problems have arisen in implementing other regulations. I come to something very serious, which I know as a subject from a student. Ladies and gentlemen, when I was a law student, we had the children of the SAA. We went together, with them, we grew up together, made life marches together, found them right and left on the basis of my scientific concerns and being a new Member in 2000, with the then-prepared revision of the Constitution, because Article 96(5) stipulates a lot for them and people as judges also had other requests. I did have an opinion in favour of them. Now, in the Constitution's Review, we have raised it again. I see in the Chamber Mr Dousina and Mr Mavrotas that we were together in the Committee on Revision. We have raised this again and said that Article 96(5), although it is a very good article, may also need further enlargement. We agreed on the words. You are now coming here to make two categories of these people, of the graduates of the SAA and of the others who have entered with new procedures into the body. Oh, no! I invite you to withdraw this article. You don't need it. Withdrawal, study it further and reach it after discussion and with us in the Standing Committee. We ask you as a Change Movement. Have you already done this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u105	She's retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u106	Have you said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u107	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u108	Good. Please, we'll talk about it very much. I also have the opportunity, the capacity and the great willingness to discuss this very specifically. I now come to an amendment tabled by Mr Mavrota, Mr Saridis and myself. We filed her today. It's late, but at the meeting we held on your own initiative, I had the opportunity to tell you. Ladies and gentlemen, those of us in the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for years have remembered a conflict within the committee between two trade unions of soldiers, officers and officers. I had taken the floor then and said that the conflicts of this level within the army are outside the spirit and the logic and law of the Constitution and remind our student years. But we have grown up and things need to be seen differently. It has not been possible parliamentaryly to normalise and people have gone to court. Two courts, Minister: The first court in January 2018 passed Resolution 254 and the appeal court in 2019 issued Resolution 1310. By these two judgments, both at the Court of First Instance and at the Court of First Instance, it was confirmed that the trade union - in or out of import - is the organ of the people working in the army, the military, the POMENS. It's clean, clear, clear. Has POMENS done any attempts within their framework to come into or did the rest of them go to the decision seated, "emotionally" to put aside others? He did. In fact, as an example - I have many of these - I have a document addressed to a relevant primary club in Lemnos. Efforts have been made to unify according to the law. Did the others respond? Oh, no. Despite judicial decisions, the loose end shall be maintained. While they are obliged to adapt to the law, as the court has interpreted it, we have an extension of the reluctance and amendments which we hear are in the interests of maintaining this intelligent situation. Wrong! And it is a mistake for colleagues if they go to sign such an amendment. 'No'! We expressly call it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] What's got to be done? The judicial decision and the amendment of the three, Saridis, Mavrota and Loverdou, must be implemented, so as to facilitate the functioning of this Union. It is our Amendment 2116/107. Please very much, Minister, look at it with interest and integrate it into the draft law. We have rules in this draft law for those who have an unfinishedity with their deferrals. It is, however, a specialist, and it concerns specific cases. I have tabled Amendment No 2114/106/ personally - and I have pointed out an injustice caused by thousands of people in the last phase of their studies. On the basis of this injustice, there is a risk that thousands of people will be declared irresponsible. Please also see my amendment with interest. I am not tabling any amendments, Minister. I rarely do it or I rarely sign it unless it's collectively from my party. But wherever there's a special need, then I put my signature. I have signed my signature on a total of three to one of my own, and I would ask you to see them with interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Mavrotas, an Independent MEP, has the floor. Mr Dousinas will follow and then Mr Doussina, Mr Cresso, will give you the floor to the amendment you want to put forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. We are dealing with a multi-project regulation which seems to have either matured for the Armed Forces or now before the elections is the right political time to do so. They are therefore a heterogeneous set of various categories of members who coexist within the army and make an effort as long as they are homogenised. I shall refer to the beginning of a number of issues in the bill, and I shall close with someone who does not exist in the bill, but we should constantly remind them of them. As far as the subordinates are concerned, you are giving an incentive to eradicate the administrative fines for those who rank up to 31-12-2020 in order to have a clearing of the situation. There must of course be an information campaign and this should be strictly defined so that it does not create an incentive to irresponsibility. Or rather because it is mostly scientists we need to find ways to exploit the intellectual capital that exists in our country for the short term of their military service from suitable positions. The objections of conscience to Articles 22 and 23 are in line with the European Convention on Human Rights and the judgments of the European Court of Justice. But I would like to see some evidence of how many people have been over the last few years, how many people are applying for, how many are approved, so that we can evaluate the system and propose any changes, such as the change in the committee's recommendation that seems to be dictated by international practice. Here is the question I have asked in the committees. Why should LAG members be exclusively from the Attica Region? I think you're talking about teachers in the bill with members. If that is for economic reasons, I think that the cost will be minimal in relation to the rate that has to be in place and at the bottom - let us put additional members on the table for those who cannot, in order to be flexible. I would also like to ask whether the services relating to the alternative term include, for example, state housing structures for refugees and immigrants. I think it would be a mutually beneficial solution for both society and for them to be able to offer such structures, because it is certainly something that goes hand in hand with the interests of the citizens concerned, where humanity and solidarity have a dominant role. I have referred to committees and to Rule 33 on the Defence Research, Technology and Industry Council. I consider its role to be very important given the potential for research and technology in our country and, of course, the fact that it can finance research projects. Some things, in other words, can be done in houses, as we say, and why not export defensive technology instead of just getting out. For example, Israel, which is taking the lead in this area, does not think that it has better scientists than we do. I have also expressed my concern about staffing here, because the position to be from the Attica region alone. The second is because only one specific research centre, the very good, of course, of which we are proud, is selected for the work of which we are proud, and not to do so institutionally, either by the National Research and Innovation Council, the ESRB, or by the Conference of Research Centres. In other words, they should nominate a representative. I think - and I would like to go a little further in general - that there is a lot of room for improvement for the effective operation of our country's Armed Forces. There are, therefore, issues which we do not see in this bill, such as the objectiveisation of the evaluation criteria for staff and transfers in a fair and rational manner, and the same approach to everyone, namely that you do not have a bar in Koroni or Koumoundourou, Piraeus, Charilaos Trikoupi or wherever else, to develop. It only matters how good you are, not who you know what a good politician you know. I have told the committees that at some point the staff that is irreversible must also be placed on the table, even under conditions, so that the balance of staffing is not disturbed, as Mr King said the other day. In the committees, I also spoke of the injustice that exists with regard to Air Force engineers, which, after their graduation, become children of a lower god with regard to hierarchy, in relation to the flying, a distortion that does not apply to the Navy and the Drought Army, where antiquity is determined by the date of their acquisition. This means that engineers of the Air Force cannot take responsibility for the general personnel of the Air Force, the HNDGS or NATO, and it is a situation that creates feelings of injustice in this valuable material that has been trained with money from Greek citizens. Result? Early flight from Air Force Classes, and even at a time when the technological development of the weapon is growing rapidly. Perhaps I will close with the most important one: voting priorities do not go hand in hand with defence priorities. If we want to have remarkable and effective Armed Forces, the party and the client state must stay out of them. As we say in Potami 'outside parties', 'outside parties from universities', much more applies 'outside parties from the Armed Forces'. Also important is the revision of the camps' planning. I also spoke about this in committee. The main volume of the army needs to be at the border and not by the city centers. And when situations dictate a change of circumstances, states cannot interfere to overthrow them or delay them because some situations unfold. And we saw this in the freeze of the 302nd Marine Brigade transfer. The staff considered that this brigade should be relocated, to go from Volos to Attica, Aylona and Salamis, for operational reasons. Suddenly and while the transition was in the preparation phase, some MPs, from SYRIZA and New Democracy, and other actors in the region managed to get the relocation freeze. They also have their responsibilities here, and the parties, which are urging the priority of defence needs, but, when it comes to certain votes, they have to act unequivocally. But we say, in theory, but we do in practice. However, if defensive planning decisions are taken on the basis of the cafes and rentals of each region. Finally, in addition to draft legislation, we need to create conditions for vigilance and efficiency. And I'm closing, Mr. President. Surely when we spend 2.2% of GDP on defence expenditure, we cannot see it as just a mechanism of change in the affairs of the bankers or a mechanism of horizontal promotion in middle management or a mechanism of party choice in senior executives. We must see it as a mechanism of real dignity, which will be spread from the top to the bottom. This will build even more trust within the army pyramid and, of course, from society to the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Dousinas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. In the debate in committee and today, Mr Kikilias, but also the Vice-President of the New Democracy, focused mainly on one topic: the opposition to conscience and legal offices, which shows exactly that the rest of the bill is generally positive. They accused SYRIZA of having an ideological obsession on this matter. Well, I plead guilty, I really admit the accusation, because this accusation also shows, ladies and gentlemen, your continued divorce with European principles and values, with the values of democracy and liberalism. I will talk about two basic concepts, which are related, the concepts of objection of conscience and political disobedience, civil disobedience. The term "political disobedience" was created by David Thoro, an American philosopher, who in 1846 decided not to pay his taxes because they financed the American-Mexico war and slavery. Of course, disobedience has come from a long time ago. In all the myths of birth man defys the law and the powerful ones to establish his existence. In the Old Testament, Adam and Eve, in our tradition, Prometheus. Man became a man when he said "no", when he resisted. It is something that I do not think we would need to repeat here, the children of Antigone, the most famous and most repeated tragedy of the Greek secretariat. If I go now to the term 'consciousness' that is, of course, the comfort of someone to serve their military service, bring a weapon and participate in military actions. The reasons used to be religious. Later they became ideological in a peace ideology. The term was widely used in the late 19th century and then during World War I to describe the peaceful resistance to war participation. In World War II, the English military authorities created special courts, the Conscientious Objectors' Tribunals, in which, since one declared that he was a member of a pacifist group or Quakers, the religious organization that is against the war, since he also said that he opposes war as a means of resolving disputes, he was then exempted from military service in the war. They applied for sixty thousand with these provisions and three thousand were given full discharge. The right to objection to conscience has been recognised by the United Nations, the Committee on Human Rights, by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. All this is well known, as the SYRIZA rapporteur has shown, with great reference to international court rulings, international committees and, of course, to many judgments by the Court of Human Rights against Greece. The most recent was Papavasilakis in 2016. I would now like to leave the debate on the law and the institutional parameters of the objection of conscience and to go behind them and, in a way, to speak about the philosophy that these salaries show in Western societies. Why have our societies accepted that the objection of conscience is an act worthy of protection? In Latin languages we have two words about what we say in Greek "conscience": conscience and consciiousness. The Greek language, in its wisdom, of these two words, that is, conscience and what we would call self-consciousness, uses them with the simple word "consciousness". What does it mean to have the same word for both of these different concepts? That means: who am I, when I say "me", when I understand myself, this is self-consciousness. This understanding of itself includes powerful moral values and requirements that are the background to the moral crises I will then make. The reasons for consciousness and the objection on them are not a matter of choice in this sense. We are being imposed, precedent of any decision to choose this or the other. They form an integral part of our self and lead to disobedience, even if the results, sanctions and punishments can be enormous. They are, in other words, the only case in which the Cantian moral theory applies, for which the bindingity of morality prevails, any beneficial assessment of the consequences, all accounts of the close interests. But how do we know if there are reasons for conscience? The criterion is relatively simple. Is anyone willing to act despite the strict sanctions and the serious consequences they can follow? It is a simple criterion and it is different from what we would say in general 'ethical'. We all have moral principles and values, but the objection of conscience is different, it is above, it is more demanding and it is only for a few. In Greece for the last five years only a few hundred soldiers have raised objections of conscience. But why does society accept this position and to some extent recognise the objection of conscience? First, of course, he's the person. Conscience is an institution of the integrity of himself, the value that founds the subjectivity of the individual. In this respect, the objection of conscience is an expression of a moral attitude that protects individuality, integrity, our uniqueness. As Hannah Arndt tells us, "Not doing anything with which you will not be able to live in the rest of your life." And George Bernard Shaw writes that "disobedience is the rarest and most courageous of virtues". Of course, there is a contradiction, a contradiction between conscientious opposition and law or public opinion. Why would society accept that? The arguments are two: First, the liberal. The most important thing is that society should respect human dignity. Humanity demands it, that is to say, respect for the deep beliefs of conscience. The law cannot and must not put excessive pressure and threats to force the individual to abandon his faith. This is the foundation of liberalism, which, unfortunately, seems to be the new Republic abandoning it. The second is, of course, the democratic argument that it is precisely those people who put in public speech, in the public sphere of views that you, who support public opinion and what the law says, are obliged to answer. To answer the arguments I am giving you because this small number of objections of conscience are right and we are obliged as a society to give them precisely some exemptions that will not force their conscience to act contrary to their basic values. These are the two principles on the part of society, the basic human dignity on the part of the individual. Here we have two completely different delightful universes. For us, for the Left and for the liberal and democratic tradition, dignity, liberal respect for conscience and democratic debate, openness in the different view, which helps our society to move forward, to renew the legal system and not to die through a turbulence when it remains the same, are our basic principles. I think that the emphasis of counter-population on this point alone shows, as I said at the outset, that it is unfortunately in a process by which it is divorced from the basic principles of the European worthy social system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u113	Mr Kretsos, State Secretary for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, has the floor to develop an amendment from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first article of the amendment sets out the institutional framework necessary to strengthen the form, so that newspapers will inevitably continue to do their work, as a pillar of democracy, pluralism, culture and the quality of public dialogue. In particular, it provides for the possibility of strengthening the publishing of newspapers and regional and local newspapers, through programmes to be drawn up by joint decisions of the Ministers for Finance and Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, as well as by the Ministry of Economy and Development, depending on the financing of the programmes. Following a dense and compact multi-month process of dialogue with all the parties involved, the proposed provision allows for specific measures to assist the newspaper issuing companies, which will be specified immediately after the adoption of the provision by means of the proposed joint ministerial decisions. So, following the reopening of the ERT, after the reorganisation of the television scene through the granting of television licences, after the establishment of an integrated framework for supporting audiovisual producers in our country with multiple benefits in many sectors of our economy, following the introduction of tax, development incentives for audiovisual production, following the establishment of the 'ONLINE MEDIA' register and the establishment of the Regional Press Register, following efforts to strengthen transparency in the field of public advertising, the Government undertakes another major initiative, to reinstate the press in a substantial and transparent and objective way to stand on its feet. And I call on you, indeed, to support all this effort. The second article of the amendment reduces, with effect from 1 May 2019, the excise duty on television advertising to 5% and to regional and local television stations. This is a regulation, following last year's Government's initiative to reduce this tax to licensed television channels, pay channels and ERT. This regulation aims at balancing the rate of this tax and balancing the costs for regional television stations, with a view to strengthening competitiveness and facilitating new investments throughout the television media. Let us not forget that the government has firmly and persistently taken steps in the past few years in the field of television from a situation of immunity to a new situation of regulation and development. One regulation, however, that we want to be lasting and sustainable for all businesses in the sector, and this is what this regulation is all about. Finally, the third article of the amendment extends the time for the submission of a request for verification of the completion of the investment project to companies that have been or will be subject to the existing audiovisual production aid scheme in Greece, from two months to six months after the completion of the investment project. In this way, investment projects shall be given sufficient time to submit their request. It is a need that has emerged from the full and complete functioning of the support scheme for audiovisual producers in Greece so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Let me inform you - to put it in the Minutes - that we are talking about the amendment with a general number of 2103 and a special 98. Mr. Stephen from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is another one of a number of legislations by the Ministry of National Defence aimed at further democratisation and equality in the Armed Forces. In 2016 under Laws 4361 and 4407, issues related to armed groups and issues related to the development of the permanent military officials were settled. In 2017 under Law 4494 economic issues and development issues were dealt with, and the right to trade expression of the military officials was established, despite all objections of the Opposition expressed in the same fierceness as in this bill. The bill contains important forecasts, which have a positive sign of the consolidation of democracy and of the isology between the members of the Armed Forces. It does not solve all the issues and it does not eliminate all the inequalities, but it is in such a direction and significantly rationalises the organisation of the bodies and creates conditions for a modern and functional army. A number of issues of career and development are being addressed of Armed Forces executives, issues of conscience opposition and various issues of responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. Some of these arrangements could be inventive, having resolved a number of chronic, flawless situations created over the past few years. The bill provides for the maximum normalisation of the lives of the Armed Forces officials, recognising their enormous responsibility for the defence of the country and for the non-formality of their work, since this is significantly differentiated from the formal work of a civil servant or a state official. This provides the possibility of legal support for executives and soldiers by officials of the Legal Council of State. Organic positions are transferred from body to body in order to meet the needs of bodies, and provision is also made for the possibility of transferring from one weapon to another defence and officer to cover high-skilled positions. Non-organic strains are also allowed to remain in the army until the fifty-eighth year to receive a full pension as planned. There is a reduction in working hours without a reduction in earnings for disabled 67% or staff who are cured for up to 15 years with a disability of 50% and diabetes mellitus. This provision shall apply to all other civil servants. Care is taken for three-tiers and multiples in the transfer system, enabling them to serve at the place of preference. The costs of care of uninsured beneficiaries in military hospitals are covered. Legal protection offices are established in order to protect fully the rights of Armed Forces officials in conjunction with existing structures. It extends the right of special permission from the members of local government to the armed forces and the officers and provides for their exceptional transfer or additional residence at the place where they are elected. We have a number of arrangements for conscientious objections. Costas Dousinas spoke extensively and covered this very well. A number of arrangements, therefore, regarding the objections of conscience and third parties and multiples, modernise the classification framework and comply with the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights and the case-law of the EDPS and of the EDPS. As a consequence, a reduction of thirty-three out of thirty-five years of the age limit for the acquisition of alternative term of office shall be introduced, provided that the alternative term of twenty days is fulfilled instead of forty. Simplify the deferral process. The administrative and military flaws of the unsubordinates who wish to close their military obligations are regulated by the end of 2020. In addition, special care is provided for a number of other issues such as in the case of health problems of students at the Icaron School and other military schools, where the possibility of staying in the Armed Forces rather than discharging. In cases of luxurious families from four and not six children, the term of office becomes six months. Three families are scheduled for eight months in the Drought Army and nine months in the Navy and Air Force. Finally, for those affected in Matti and Mandra, the examinations for their introduction into military schools are premiumd. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2006 with L.4361 and L.4407, issues relating to soldiers and issues relating to the development of permanent staff in the Armed Forces had been settled. In 2017, under Law 4494 economic issues and issues of development were dealt with, and the right to trade expression of military officials was established despite all objections of opposition. With this bill, our Government solves a number of issues of the Armed Forces in a democratic direction and a level playing field. All of this is a statement of the effort made to rationalise and improve the operation of the Armed Forces, in the light of the interests and well-being of the people who work and strive for the country's defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u117	Mrs Alonitou has the floor from SYRIZA. Then I will give the floor to Mr. Rizzo and then to the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Apostolakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very good time here in this House. I think we are not at all affected by the fact that we have the Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, Mr Adoni Georgiadis, to present us with a bill. It fully entertains us in theatre terms. You're laughing, Mr. Davaki. That's the truth. But it is the same way, the same method that makes him so that the name "solotoba" has a name, this is called Adonis Georgiadis. Let's think a little of what he's done so far, a few things to understand. A year ago on the Committee of Inquiry of the Parliament told us: "Look, I want to go to trial. Even if Parliament does not allow me, I will find a way and I will go to trial, to prove my innocence." It's been a year that is harder and starts talking to us about offenses and all that and not only that, but it starts to say that any judicial officer dares to bring the case-file to the House for him will personally sue him for misuse of power. But let's not go that far. The day before yesterday, he said: 'I will not vote for the waiver of immunity of Mr Loverdos, which the House will consider tomorrow', and after a few hours he said he would vote for it. Here Greek citizens understand how reliable Mr.Georgiadis is when he presents a bill which is very important and serious that of the Ministry of Defence. So let's see how important this bill is and what it does. Firstly, it comes to solve problems of too many years for all the personnel of the Armed Forces. He comes to set up new data on the mandate of the military Greek citizens, comes to regulate issues relating to conscientious objections, modernise military law, restore economic and graduation injustices, upgrade the level of training provided to the Armed Forces and, finally, truly give solutions to a number of issues of the military personnel of the Armed Forces. Let's take a look at some sort of evidence. Already since the first article of the bill, the Ministry's concern for its officials is reflected, since for the first time all military personnel of the Armed Forces have been able to obtain a lawyer before the criminal courts, for offences allegedly committed during their service, as has already been the case for all members of the Security Councils. Furthermore, the moral support provided to the military personnel of the Armed Forces and the students of the military schools, where for health reasons in the event of an incurable disease, is not demobilised but exploited in lighter services provided by a branch of the Armed Forces, is equally important care. One of the most important interventions is the special arrangements for long-term volunteers to supplement the time-limit for full-time pensions and not to be demobilised earlier without granting a pension entitlement, which, due to the age limit of 50 years imposed by the current institutional framework, cannot be done. Let's go down. Benefit arrangements for reduced working hours without a reduction in earnings are extended to strains of the Armed Forces who are cured by a child or disabled person 50% with type 1 diabetes. Other arrangements: Free hospitalisation is regulated in military hospitals to beneficiaries who are uninsured for various reasons, including relatives first grade but also to other non-registered persons under conditions. For the first time, it is planned to set up a Legal Protection Office directly under the authority of the Heads of General Staff with a view to informing them and recording abuses of power and more generally arbitrariness. This article, Article 15, has indeed lifted a lot of dust on the part of Officer Response. And what they didn't tell us! In any case, what I would like to ask is this: is it such a big problem for there to be a Legal Protection Office to record any arbitrary practices? Are the superintendents above the law? What's the problem with that? No hierarchy breaks. They shall be subject directly to the Chiefs of General Staff. So even the Armed Forces enter the micro-political feasibility of Officer Response. We continue with this: Care is being taken to protect the family's foundation for three-tier and tenacious families by reducing military service to six months for all children of tens of families - from four children and over - and in eight or nine months - depending on the House who will serve - for all the brothers of the three-teen family. There is also care to ensure that armed groups with deep personal and social problems can be moved near their place of desire, as basic training can be carried out in the reception units now considered as installation units. And this article raised a lot of noise for the New Democracy. The fact that the state is leaning over the militant Greeks, so that it can see some peculiarities that can have and prevent some things, is that a problem? We also have military arrangements for conscientious objections, taking into account both the constitutional principle of equality and the equality of all Greek citizens and the international obligations of the country on human rights, more fundamentally regulating the abolition of the measure of their two-month compulsory stay, in addition to the actual military service, to the alternative service before they are released. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And here, gentlemen, you have raised too much noise about this issue, as if the country were not bound by the international conventions which it has signed on human rights, social rights and individual rights. You heard what was said by Amnesty International at the meeting of bodies. So you're acting like you don't have all this. The only thing you found to focus on your opposition vigilante was in the composition of the committee of inquiry that will examine the request for entry into the alternative term. And because the majority of colleges will have it, that's the major problem. Is there a more objective way? Why, then, is this a major issue for you? Anyway, time has passed. I wanted to say more. I would like to end by saying that today's bill has been satisfying the legitimate demands of the country's military personnel, which many of them have needed a solution for many years. It is a bill that motivates members of the Armed Forces to carry out their mission. It is a bill with a positive and modernistic figure, careful in detail, encouraging both the members of the Armed Forces and the soldiers. It's a bill that needs to be voted on by all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Rizzos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us see why and from which authorities this bill began - because we heard things here this evening - and what the government's political leadership took into account, to 'take us down' this bill here. As stated in the explanatory statement, it starts with the country's geopolitical position and the needs for national defence, the number, size and credentials of the Armed Forces, the country's legal system as a member of the European Union and the general community, the requirements of our Constitution for the protection of the family and sensitive social groups, the care in practice for specific categories of military personnel facing particular social problems, the need to coexist with the provisions of the law relating to the staff of the Armed Forces and the need to improve their living conditions, such as, for example, the transfers and the possibility of reduced working hours, the requirement to simplify and modernise the provisions of military law that need to be modernised, the compliance of the administration with the findings, the laws and suggestions of the Citizens' Counsel and the more effective and long-term address to the issue of independence. What does this bill include? What's he giving? It is what our colleagues say 'rusphetological regulations and regulations'. Supporting legally the military officials and armed forces, such as the other civil servants in the performance of their duties, is Rusfetti? Is the provision for reduced working hours for persons who are caring for children or relatives with disabilities ruptured? Is the provision for exceptionally all of this to be transferred to their place of choice? Is the coverage of the uninsured in military hospitals of all three guns ruptured? The reduced term for the children of three and ten families, regardless of number, is that also ruffetti? The provision for retrospectives that we have given them, by fulfilling the obligations of the Greek state over the last few years, which we say is not to include at least social benefits and social benefits in general, which this government has introduced for all Greek citizens, is Rusphetti? Is it Rusfetti, too, that the students of military schools should join the general system of transcripts? I won't say any more. I will say an issue that is also a matter for me of the Greek state's moral order: to incorporate the officials, the soldiers who took part in the war operations in Cyprus in 1964, in 1967 and 1974, who are given the opportunity to cover themselves and their relatives in military hospitals for the first time, I think it is one of the largest moral obligations of the state. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with one request, because I do not like to say a request in this House. It concerns the assimilation of hospital staff to the latest laws passed by the Ministry of Health, so that there is no differentiation between civilian and military personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u121	The Minister of National Defence, Mr. Apostolakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the main body of our bill is the care of the personnel of the Armed Forces of all categories of all grades and origin. Our aim is to be as close as possible to our people, their personal and family issues, to give them solutions, to remove obstacles, to show them that they are members of an organization that respects them in practice and in substance. The provisions that we have included have been put together after serious administrative work, with dialogue, consultation and cooperation with all the relevant bodies and ministries. We are seeking to legislate on the best possible arrangements with a human approach, with a sense of law and in any case with a commitment to the protection and enhancement of our fighting capacity. Of course, it would be a happy task to have economic comfort, to take even greater steps in this direction. But we are also working for this purpose in the place where we are concerned, because the country's economic development is the purpose of nationalism. We have therefore taken into account the need to minimise the costs caused by the state budget. I would, however, like to believe that we are proposing solutions with the least possible compromises and without any discounts on matters relating to vulnerable groups, health problems and human rights. However, the current situation is also sensitive for other reasons. The Greek Armed Forces operate as a guarantee not only for the independence and territorial integrity of our country but are a factor of security and stability in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East. Conservation of peace begins with the international political and military environment for both the wider region of Greek and European interests and rights and worldwide. The image, therefore, that the Armed Forces of a country should have militaryly credible and powerful, in international terms and role, must be an image of determination and cohesion, and it is precisely in this context that constant care for staff, the preservation of the sense of justice, the rewarding of supply, the spirit of understanding, incentives, respect for rights, and assistance for personal and family needs. The personnel of the Armed Forces, from permanent officials to children serving their military service, are at the forefront of the national duty and we know that they are doing so with awareness of their mission and with a real sense of offer. That is why the Ministry of National Defence considers maintaining efficiency is primarily a matter of morality. The morale is what has increased our worthy and military prestige at regional and allied levels, despite the crisis, despite the cuts, despite the international liquidity and asymmetric threats we have to face. On this basis, therefore, I shall refer to the specific regulations contained in the bill and I think they give its mark. They have already been discussed in the committee, where I am glad to see that the majority of the Members who participated found them objectively and in good faith and many of them were accepted inter-partyly. I would point out, therefore, that military service for the children of three-six and tenacious families is being reduced. The legislation on conscientious objections is being modernised and in line with the general framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. This is where I want to stand on two issues. The first concerns the lifting of the current obligation by law to serve conscientious objections in a longer term than those who fulfil it armedly. With the alternative term, as you know, some real services are provided in society as a whole and there is no need to last longer or to be punishable. This is a consistent position of the judgments of the European Court of Justice and we are implementing it. The second concerns the composition of the committee examining requests for entry to this alternative service. The only reason I am talking about this is that various charges and unfounded fears have been heard about supposedly depreciating the soldiers, because we are replacing one of the two soldiers with a professor of philosophical, sociological or legal. The question of personal convictions, as you can all imagine, is not a military but a personal one, and it relates more to the sciences I have mentioned to you. It is, in other words, a question of choosing appropriate scientific expertise and not of objectivity or impartiality. It is good, then, to be careful and not to create impressions about the integrity of military personnel for no reason. As for the choice of these teachers from the Attica region, I think it is reasonable, because in this way we are also reducing the cost of compensation, but it is also easier for them to attend the meetings of the committees. The Legal Protection Offices are also recommended to provide direct and direct information to executives on cases directly and personally related to them, as well as to assist the staff in identifying any instances of maladministration. Some have chosen to present a distorted picture of this provision, mentioning a circumvention of the hierarchy and a blow to the discipline of the Armed Forces. In fact, they did so with an acute and inappropriate look, with personal accusations against me in the committee and posted to the social networks and the press. This is, of course, misinterpretation and I wonder how clear the wording of the provision must be, so that the most suspicious person can understand that the object of the offices is to inform the officials about what the law provides for in terms of their rights and obligations. This information works not only in favour of the sense of law that the staff must have in carrying out their duties but also in favour of the service, that is to say, essentially of the managers who are in positions of supervisors and must govern the staff fairly and at the least possible bureaucratic costs. As I said in committee, maladministration in the Armed Forces is not common. Of course, this does not mean that we cannot strengthen their prevention framework any further. These are the parameters of the subject we can discuss, because they are the real ones. The rest, I'm afraid, are done only to create impressions. Continuing, the provisions take care of working hours and transfers of staff with serious health problems or care for disabled persons. Excluded is retroactive, paid in 2018 by the income budget for the payment of social benefits and financial aid. It extends to the military the possibility already available to civil servants and to the members of the Security Councils to represent and defend them in the criminal courts for official affairs by officials of the Legal Council of State. A large number of loose ends, relating to the service and grading evolution of each staff category, shall be regulated. A new type of military identity card is being established, which will serve as a travel document and have new security standards. They are introduced with more stringent criteria in the military schools, the students who experienced the difficult times with the flooding in Mandra in 2017 and the fire in Eye in 2018. The treatment is extended to military hospitals of uninsured and family who participated in the war events of Cyprus 1964, 1967 and 1974. The operating framework of the Ships and War Use Reception and Reception Service is modernised. The National Military Authority for Accreditation shall be established as an independent organisation of the OHIM for the certification of the conformity of equipment, including by personnel of the Armed Forces and Defence Industry Institutions, with the national and international regulatory framework for the airworthiness of aircraft and ships. With regard to the proposal which has been heard in committee for the adoption of an irrevocable act of service after twenty-five years of service, I would like to remind you that the main objective of the transfer is to meet the needs of the Armed Forces, which, of course, must be done with respect for the personal needs of the executives. The establishment, therefore, of an irrevocable privilege only on the basis of the years of service, restricts the service excessively and binds it for a very long time, which may exceed 1/3 of the service life of the officials and would necessarily affect the integrity of the army. I think it should not be accepted at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of National Defence has proved, throughout the budgetary crisis, that its anthropcentric orientation remains stable and continuously cares for appropriate interventions, to improve the service and working environment of military and civilian personnel. It is not just about the practical recognition of the daily and unselfish offer of its officials and their families, it is about investing in its inspiring potential in order to strengthen the sense of justice and recompense, safeguarding the conditions of stable, multi-faceted and time-consuming participation in every social need, but also defending its primary role in the national defence and security of the country. I would like to say a few words about an amendment tabled and the introduction of a regulation which is important and which concerns the Rocky Reclassification Weapons. With the current context, gunmen who have fulfilled their military service can be reclassified to the Armed Forces in order to continue to offer their services as wages for up to three years. However, there is no possibility for these armed groups to remain in the Armed Forces, even though many want it to be mitigated by the lack of completeness of some units and the degree of operational preparedness and combat capacity to be maintained at the desired level. Because, therefore, these are soldiers who already have some experience and expertise and work smoothly in the military environment, we want to have the possibility, we want to provide them with more and better training, so that we then use them to serve them either by serving in their units or by the Special Forces. It's also an extra motive to make that choice. That is why we are proposing the introduction of this regulation in order to allow already serving the Rocky Reclassification Armours, since they themselves wish to remain in the Armed Forces for an additional three years. Several changes have been made, taking into account the positions of the honourable Members and the members of the committee, and we have tried to have constructive cooperation at the end of the bill. In this context, Article 36 concerning the amendment of the provisions of the Code of Justice of the Armed Forces is withdrawn because some arrangements are envisaged in the Constitutional Review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u123	Mr Minister, since you have finished your speech, I would like to remind you that at some point - a warm request - this is to be done as soon as possible - you must inform this House which parliamentary amendments you are accepting. The list will be exhausted shortly. In particular, there are seven speakers left and the Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u124	All right, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-four students and students and two teachers from the Trabantezio High School Siatista (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Davakis, Member of the Republic of New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I listened very carefully to the Minister of National Defence and former Chief of HNDGS and I think that what has been said by him shows a attitude towards the issues facing the Armed Forces, a attitude - I believe - trying to correct certain things, an effort which we also welcome and vote on. I have heard my colleague from SYRIZA, Mr Rizzo, who said to him what the New Democracy is voting for the positive provisions of this bill. However, he failed to say what he is critically speaking about, he has a specific view - against which, obviously - which is based on specific elements which we have asked for in committee and which, unfortunately, have not been given to us so far both for the legal support offices, for which the bill itself refers to issues of misuse, namely, an office which can, through the influx and the continual burden of demands, fail to bear - says the bill on misuse - as well as for the issues of conscientious objections, where we asked the committee itself, elements which the other colleague of the SYRIZA mentioned in his historical and philosophical reference, Mr Dousina, mentioning the civil war in America, if I am not mistaken. But these were historical in nature, and you can also understand the history of these elements as well as attempts. In any case, the evidence requested by the Qualified Opposition, both by our rapporteur and the speaker, has not been provided. In the view of the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, the Armed Forces are not yet a service in the wider public sector. The Armed Forces are a case, welding substances of which are the leadership, discipline, hierarchy and trust of executives. Military status is a choice of life, and it is the one that moves above the relationship between an employer and a worker. That's how we approach the case, the function, I'd say, called an Armed Forces Commander. We therefore need - we believe - to formulate a new vision for the Armed Forces, for women and for men of the Armed Forces. The Armed Forces from now on, the next period we will order, will have to face a period of constant challenges, as the former Chief of HNDGS knows very well and now Minister of National Defence, challenges in our region that have to do with various events. There also needs to be a concrete attitude of political leadership towards them. Modern, realistic and lasting education, stable and predictable careers, with potential for substantial personal and professional development, support for the military family - we all understand and know what one or two is going through a house that has the status of military - and provide top health services to both active and retired personnel, security and normality at work - the main minister knows them best - and the necessary means and materials for the safe and successful completion of missions, as well as simplifying and improving the daily quality of personnel at all levels from the camp, from the army to their home. Although, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative initiative is the fourth series of SYRIZA and former ANELs, this vision is not reflected in a telegraph that I described in my specific speech. We see some fragmentary provisions, some of them I would say, which some of them are in the right direction. But it is not formulated, it is not completed, it is not the vision that I mentioned earlier, and it is about the future of the Armed Forces, beyond the armaments issues that are another huge issue and which is being detected in these issues. We have again asked the committee to carry out a specific task of setting up a committee on the national defence industrial strategy, which we are still waiting for. As far as matters relating to the unioning of the Armed Forces are concerned, I have to redraft matters, which I have said many times. We have seen at the committee meeting what has happened again among rival factions, organizations and associations, which are declaring the interests of military officials, who, unfortunately, show how they are being written at the moment. More so, these officials look at their public convergences, which take them to the audiences, personal elevation, despite the interests of the executives themselves, who say they represent. Article 32(1) threatens to disrupt unrelentingly, Minister, the antiquity between volunteers and volunteers, on the one hand, and those on the other. The issue has been resolved by Law 4494/2017. It is not immediately understandable - and I would like an explanation - why this political leadership has chosen to create a new hierarchical issue. Ladies and gentlemen, now that the curtain falls in this parliamentary term, now that what was done in the Armed Forces with the last Minister of Admiral Mr Apostolakis - but there is a history, you will all be aware, we will all remember what was said in these bills by Mr Panos Kammenos - what remains and must be in this House and the next, the new Parliament that will emerge with the vote of the Greek people, to have a reform, modern, modern programme for the men and women of the Armed Forces. There will be a programme which will be formulated by both the natural and the political leadership, which will support the executives, which are the force factor of our Armed Forces, and which will be able to have the prosperous prospect of resisting all those who make up the threat that our country has, but also those who make up the difficulty of their everyday lives. I believe that this bill does not respond to that philosophy. I believe, however, that soon the appropriate bill will come with a new government, the New Democracy Government, which will answer crucially what concerns the Armed Forces and which is far from being claimed by the various trade unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u127	Next speaker, Mr Practicalis, from the New Democrat Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we should discuss a draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which would have as a reference the reorganisation and modernisation of the army, according to the role played by our country in a constantly changing geopolitical and geostrategic environment. We were expecting the regulation of operational issues pending. Minister, you had a glorious field to regulate matters for which you could not convince as Chief of HNDGS your predecessor, to do your vision as a father to all the officials of the Armed Forces and as Minister of National Defence of all Greeks. He said our President that we will now see you as Minister. That's what we're doing today. But I see you with the bracelet. Unfortunately, you have recommended a draft law which is a copy of the rest that your Government brings with other ministries ahead of the elections. Really, why didn't you bring the necessary arrangements, as you mentioned before, for four years or why didn't you suggest to your predecessor to introduce these with the three laws? In four and a half years, the present government has broken down a record by only four laws, and even by resolving all these issues, which relate only to services, with rhyphetological arrangements and depots of the "mediums" which constitute the "golden dust", but also to the carpet of an explosive mixture imported within the Armed Forces. The Armed Forces are the shield of Evros, Thrace, the islands of the Aegean and of course of the whole country. In fact, together with the Security and Justice Body, they are the main pillars on which a state, a democracy, and in times of difficulty that may be critical. Unfortunately, the government is trying to reverse the army and not to force it, as it should, through provisions which serve its ideas, but, unfortunately, you, too, seem to be indifferent to excellence, as is apparent from Article 10, which amends the criteria for the promotion and development of officers. Incorporate again into the draft law the Legal Protection Offices, which have been operating for two years in the large-forming seats upon your order. You are intervening with this initiative in the administrative system and you know what an administrative system means, which is particularly sensitive and indeed in organised military and structured bodies and branches. You have unauthorized persons to control the governors. The cherry on the cake is that with Article 35 you facilitate those who want to avoid military obligations. You are turning the ground into conscientious objections that are now equitable with those who serve in remote areas. The worst part is, however, that you are also deceiving the authority of the Armed Forces officials. According to your law, the position of officers in the Special Committee on Conscience Objections has been reduced, increasing to three the positions of Professors HI, because they are the only ones who are scientists, according to your Deputy Minister. The low-speaking position of your Deputy is ringing in my ears. But you, in your explanatory statement, say in more detail: 'The change provides more guarantees of a non-discriminatory and independent crisis in the committee'. That is, apart from not being scientists, they are not considered unbiased. Today you should present us with an effective crisis management system, a substantial staffing of the units, making blocks in the military, military and not just, but also measures for upgrading and training military personnel and for raising up their morale, suggesting ways of upping our defence industry and not leaving the window open for mass transfers to the NSAs, as is the case with Article 42, which will lead to their complete dissolution rather than splitting up the army and putting a braided bomb on the foundations of the Armed Forces with Article 47 on trade unionism. It is a matter of setting up - and we have proposed it in committee too - an intergroup committee, from which a constituent, namely a regulatory law which closes this issue once and for all. But you do not do it and leave blurred waters in the sensitive Armed Forces. Even the decisions of justice see that you do not accept them. The only Federation left, the POMENS, you do not accept it. On the margins of the committee's discussion I tabled a memorandum from the MacArrival Volunteers Association based in New Orestia, in my home country. Unfortunately, however, I have seen that you have not taken into account this shout of agony and the just request made by the locust soldiers. They participate in the double contributions in favour of the funds and want that right to be met. Unfortunately, it seems that as a government you did not engage in resolving their Gordian bond and as they describe it themselves, you refer them to 'from Anna to Caiafa'. Finally, because issues relating to the rating were also raised in this draft law, I would like to stress that the military personnel are not only from the productive schools of officers and officers, but also from other sources, originally, staffing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why, Minister, the law on the homogenisation of all categories, in a masterpiece of law and in a spirit of law, is needed, but also by drawing up a uniform rate and record that is permanently valid, so that they do not play with the grades of election games, as your relevant law does today. I am making my experience out loud in both the committee and in the House here. This is how problems were solved in the field of Greek Police, with the regulation of homogenisation and rating. At the same time, the haircut and the mental breakdown of the House have been prevented. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a reference to the past. Mr President, I would like two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u129	No, Mr. Prisoner.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u130	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u131	I already gave you a minute. Don't abuse time. There are other colleagues who will need more time too. In a minute, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u132	In 1903 the political world of Greece, with half Greece and to an extent and to a population, found the strength and decided to reorganise the Armed Forces and even after an unfortunate Greek-Turkish war, but at the same time we were “unfortunately bankrupt”. We had two victorious Balkan Wars, one participation in World War I, but also a campaign in Asia Minor. In 1933, too, the political world found the power to reorganise the Armed Forces and had the surveillance of 1940 and 1941. Today, ladies and gentlemen, because geostrategic and geopolitical data are changing and because the challenges are evident, we must find the political power and reorganise our Armed Forces, because it is the only opportunity. We have an honorary Chief of HNDD, today, Minister of National Defence. It could and could go ahead and do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u133	Mr Kavadas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have been expecting the Government for four years to bring in a bill aimed at strengthening the operational capacity of the Armed Forces. Unfortunately, however, instead of a bill that would modernise the Armed Forces, the SYRIZA Government has once again come a bill with party and rushphetological targets. There are articles in this bill reflecting the permanent ideas of the Left. For example, I refer to Article 10, which effectively abolishes excellence. This article completely alters the criteria for the promotion and development of officers. It is possible to promote elected officers who achieve low scores. It will now be considered a successful graduation from schools with a score of 10 or more. In addition, in this draft law the limit of the rating is '15' as well as '17' as currently in force. In other words, they lower the criteria for the promotion of officers and incentives for the pursuit of excellence. Article 23 also follows the same ideals. This article in a period of escalation of Turkish provocativeness affects the integrity of the Armed Forces. This article changes the recommendation of the Committees on Conscience Objections. It reduces the Armed Forces officers from two to one today and increases the teachers of HEI from two to three. In fact, in the explanatory statement you can justify this move on the grounds that the Commission's crisis must be impartial and independent. So, over the years, Minister, these committees have not had an impartial and independent crisis? As a graduate of military school, I think that this is how you despise the officials of the Armed Forces clearly. Don't you trust them, Minister? Why are you doing this? I think you owe them an answer. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are well aware that our country is in a sensitive region. The merits of the Armed Forces are vital. Instead of taking care of this, you are reducing the term of office of conscientious objections by two months and, in fact, you are equating them with the soldiers who serve their service in the remote parts of our country. So, Minister, do you think that the soldier who serves in an Evros penitentiary or in our islands should be equal to the conscientious opposition that he chooses to serve in some municipality in his area? Of course this change is in the wrong direction and I invite you to see it again at even the last minute. The training of the Armed Forces is still under Article 15. In particular, Minister, you are absent - there is no Minister here right now - who has served for years in the Armed Forces you know how important the discipline of the army is. This article defines the establishment of Legal Service Offices. You know very well that this article despises its institution, which, based on military regulations, is responsible for the staff of the unit. Basically, you're putting party surveillance within the addresses. I wonder what these offices need. Do you have evidence of maladministration or misuse of power in the army? And if so, how much are these incidents all year? Also, are these offices in other ministries? If you want an institution for the assistance of the officials, for example, a inter-climate advocate of the military could be created. In other words, an independent administrative authority which will be directly subject to the Minister for the Protection of Workers in the Armed Forces in the standards of the Citizens' Counselor. The military advocate is an institution that is a reality and a tradition of years in many developed countries, such as Germany, the Netherlands, Canada and Australia. In your minutes, I will inform you of the relevant information on the functioning of this institution in these countries that I have mentioned. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Kavadas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also like to mention the point raised in the Committee on Defence by the representatives of the Alumni Association of the School of Civilian Staff, the School of Official Administrators and the Flying Radionuclides. Article 32 and paragraph 1 create inequality between officers from productive schools of staff, acting beneficially in favour of volunteers who have been permanently resident by Law 445/1974 and volunteers who have been permanently resident under Law 705/1977. It is really regrettable that this provision, during the public consultation of the bill, was not part of it, but was suddenly tabled for discussion and examination in committees, not allowing it to be commented on accordingly by the graduates of the Higher Military Schools of Staff. It is an important issue, Minister, and I propose either that this paragraph be withdrawn or that a new provision be added, on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding of the Alumni Associations of the Air Force. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the issue that has arisen with the federations and with the military trade unions in general. For those who do not know, there has been a long judicial dispute between the WTO and the POMENS. This controversy ended finally in court, first and foremost and to an appeal, where the POMENS Federation was judged. All primary unions can join it. I think it is clear that the institutional Federation representing the military is one and this is the POMENS. There is no need to institutionalise another body of representation. All primary compounds have been invited to join its procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise once again the ideological approach of the SYRIZA Government to the Armed Forces. Instead of bringing a bill regulating the operational capabilities and upgrading of the three weapons of the Armed Forces, bring back a bill of settlement and election services. This bill despises the burning issues which concern the Armed Forces, and that is why we are voting against it at the outset. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u135	Mr Ballis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first meeting of the committee, but also during today's debate in this bill, the two different logics of the operation of the army, the treatment of the uniforms, their position and their role, their obligations and their rights appeared. One conception wants the army and its spiritual potential to exist separately and autonomously, regardless of what is happening in the wider environment and the social area, as a closed system for the conservation and reproduction of a special relationship of power and hierarchy, apart from social developments, necessities, apart from the human and social features that the Armed Forces' human resources must have. The other perception is the one that sees the army and the uniforms as an organic part of society itself, of course with all the demands arising from their role and function, namely the defence of the country, the protection of borders, the defence of national interests, but with people who are members of society, with obligations because of their status, but also with rights. It is a perception that in this way, i.e. by recognizing the rights of uniforms, respect for their personality, with reason in dealing with problems, respect for hierarchy and the necessary discipline but also with equality, justice and understanding, in the end an army with high-level officials, you also have a more effective army. I am sure that if not all of us, at least in most, the phrase 'where logic ends, the army begins' is known from the years of the term. Is it still possible today for the army to function like this? Is it possible to ignore what is happening in the organisation and functioning of the army of all the other European countries, both in Finland and in Sweden and elsewhere? Is it possible to introduce, by reluctant steps, democratic perception in the military to be rejected as 'dangerous'? An army with a democratic perception and function is the best assurance that it remains strictly and faithfully in its duties alone. The rapporteur for the Opposition said that he expected the government to bring a bill on many other issues and not on this issue, because this bill, as he said, is not of major importance. And later, the Vice-President of the New Democracy has also clarified the reasons for this, and indeed on several occasions, with personal and degrading references to the Minister for Defence, obviously aiming to trigger an tension in one, otherwise, calm discussion. What were these reasons? We're ruining discipline and hierarchy, we're putting competitors into the army, we're favouring conscientious objections and we're pushing young people to avoid their army, invoking objections for any reason. Where, according to the Opposition, all these wicked intentions of the government are supported? Firstly, the creation of the Legal Protection Offices. It should be recalled that these offices, in addition to examining the legality of the administrative acts from which the rights of the military are affected and overseeing the proper observance of the obligations of the hierarchical authorities, will report every six months to the Minister responsible for the care of the staff, but perhaps the main one - they will submit the same report to the committee responsible. Where does transparency bother? These offices will be directly subject to the Chiefs of General Staff and their task will be to help ensure the rights of officials and to monitor transparency. They will examine the legality of the individual administrative acts of the Military Office and will help to correct any damage. In this way, the United Nations legal framework is institutionally shielded. Solidarity, equal measures and weights, respect, consolidation and safeguarding of everyone's rights are not luxury and it is not an option, as we have accused ourselves, a party. It's a contractual obligation of a rule of law. It is the core of political existence, it is a supreme democratic obligation and it does not fit for discounts. In other words, this regulation comes, among other things, to bring the Greek Armed Forces into line with other international standards. Secondly, we have heard of the government's wicked intentions. It is the arrangements that are very much attempting to deal with the issue of irresponsible and conscientious objections. What about the bill? The criminality of inefficiency is eliminated and legal consequences and proceedings are removed, provided they have already been registered with the Armed Forces and have fulfilled or fulfilled their mandate or will be assigned to the performance of the mandate by 31 December of the other year. In fact, it offers an incentive to show up and serve, to get rid of the punishable multiple fines, which for most of course is impossible to serve. It is also foreseen that conscientious objections, which have been or are inexcusable when the law enters into force, will fall under the same arrangements if they have already fulfilled an alternative service, or have submitted or submitted supporting documents to subject them to these provisions by the end of the year. These are, above all, considered to be dangerous for the discipline of the army. It obviously prefers an army that operates as a dark spot in a democratic clearing, an army that ignores the fact that this country has a Constitution and a legal system for all its citizens, an army that will usually be the irrational one, that its conditions will make life unseen in the camp, which suicides will be on the agenda. Are the conditions in the camps and, in general, in the perception of functioning unresponsible for the seventy-four indictments of uniforms in the period 2000-2016? Of them fifty-six were soldiers and eighteen were soldiers of the army. These conditions, I would point out, have the ambition of improving the bill. In addition to this, it includes arrangements for transfers, for ranking and terminology, and in particular arrangements with social care for individuals and families with a problem of economic, social or health problems, with arrangements for third parties and multitudes, suffering from serious illnesses, family with children in need of special care and care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u137	Thank you. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Kefaloyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the fourth, if I remember correctly, the government's defence initiative for the last four years. And since it is reasonably the latest legislative initiative of this government in this area, that of defence, I think it is of particular importance to attempt a small account of what the government has contributed, firstly, to the coexistence of independent Greeks and SYRIZA, and now SYRIZA, in this area. One would expect, ladies and gentlemen, that in the changing world in which we live today, which has real and appalling consequences for both nature and the extent and the number of threats, we would discuss a number of issues, very specific issues, which relate to this particular era. We would, for example, discuss setting priorities for the threats that are to be addressed. We should consider the redistribution of human resources to the Armed Forces so that it is possible to meet the needs arising from the prospect of addressing the entire range of threats. We should reorganise armaments in line with priorities, so as to achieve the training of staff and the supply of equipment to deal with all modern threats, from the cyber-war, from the law, information companies, from the hybrid war. And we would try to see how to save resources so that they can actually come to grips with them by abolishing obsolete structures and activities. But instead of that, ladies and gentlemen, we are finally discussing in all the bills a number of categories of provisions which, unfortunately, seem to be repeated, almost with an ideological obsession. The first of these is, for example, those provisions aimed at eliminating all concepts of excellence to the Armed Forces, such as Article 10. Why, Minister, what else could be the reduction of the limits of successful graduation in compulsory schools for officers needed to promote them? Of course, this is not the first time. I would remind you that in earlier legislation the government introduced retroactive power to change the rating scale of the schools and schools of the Armed Forces. It was a provision, of course, which did nothing but satisfy purely customer demands and at the expense of executives who have cut too hard in order to achieve the ratings that will allow them better to raise the army. A second welcoming class of provisions is about the partisanization of the army. And obviously, your government will write it down because you legislated union in the Armed Forces. Unfortunately, he'll write you for the wrong reason. Because no one can forget that at the time the leadership of the Ministry of Defence adopted an amendment of MPs, it shocked the Union of Armed Forces that an amendment which came to give a legal cloak to an existing regime of associations, unions and federations, which unfortunately or fortunately was overturned by the courts. A third issue that comes and comes again constantly through your legislation in this area is that of undermining the discipline of the Armed Forces. The fact that discipline and hierarchy are basic principles on which the structure of the army is based, its coherence and effectiveness, unfortunately, seems to be of no interest to anyone in the government. And it is not just Article 15, ladies and gentlemen of the government, which provides for the establishment of a legal protection office. You remember that the psychological support office had previously been established, which, in practice, created issues, not only in the military hierarchy. A fourth issue, with regard to the legislation you have done in this area, is about the worthy of the Armed Forces. This is where we need to make something clear. Morally and in terms of his debt to the homeland, the soldier who serves his service in Evros, in the Aegean islands, cannot be equitable in dealing with the conscientious opposition that he chooses to serve as an official in the municipality. It is not possible, therefore, to assimilate the conscientiousness with the armamentist who normally serves his term of office, nor to abolish the possibility of the Minister of National Defence to suspend, during a period of war, the provisions on the alternative service. Of course, I would remind you that this is not the first time either. The question of objections of conscience runs all legislative initiatives by the present government. A fifth issue, of course, related to the previous one, is that, in every legislative initiative, the Government does not lose the opportunity to devaluate the authority of the officials of the Armed Forces. This time he found a change in the composition of the Committee on Consciences, as a provision is supposed to be more guarantees of a non-discriminatory and independent crisis of the committee. Here I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the comments are superfluous. Finally, I would like to make a comment. This bill, like the previous government, is supposed to contribute to the democratisation of the Armed Forces. And it is really sad to hear in this Chamber that this is still a matter of this kind. Because, above all, you should all know that the mission of the Armed Forces is precisely the protection of the country's democratic culture. And there is no doubt that if the military personnel of the Armed Forces are ever called upon to show their deterrent power towards any external enemy, they will do so to defend the interests of all Greeks regardless of ideological convictions. But these, ladies and gentlemen, are a little too much - the concerns of the SYRIZA about the Armed Forces. Today's bill is indeed a very good opportunity to see what SYRIZA has done in the field of defence as a whole. Because having all our attention focused on the unresolved problems that have accumulated this four-year-old coexistence. We have, unfortunately, now stopped to consider whether all these malignancies which had been heard in previous years in terms of the operational upgrading of the Armed Forces, which is also the real issue that should normally be of concern to us. Indeed, all these years have been announced and nothing has happened in the following areas: Reorganization, interclining, new doctrines. There has been nothing substantial about equipment and material maintenance. Nothing has happened in the training of staff. At a time when, because of geopolitical liquidity in the region, the number of threats has been multiplied, and there is also the possibility of a decisive blow without classical operations, unfortunately the SYRIZA Government is not dealing with anything else, it is not dealing with the real problems of the Armed Forces, and it is certainly not dealing with the real problems of our national defence. I'm closing with a famous comment on the social role of the army. It is good, ladies and gentlemen, to remember that the Mission of the Armed Forces is to ensure the deterrent effect of our country. And if she can help other missions, then of course she'll do it. However, the reason for her existence cannot be obsolete from the Armed Forces mission, nor can the human and financial resources of the troops be wasted on other purposes. They are resources that are especially nowadays and especially with the crisis that passes and passes through our country, unfortunately they are limited. When necessary, the Armed Forces offered human resources, means and know-how to Greek society. And I'm sure they'll do the same again whenever they have to. And our own debt as a political system is that the Armed Forces do this with their surplus and not with their laxity, as has happened many times over recent years and, unfortunately, you still have them today. And through that, I think we'll all be judged at the end of the day. I shall say a few words about the amendments. As far as the amendment is concerned, there are 2102 and we will be voting'representations'. As far as Amendment No 2099 is concerned, we will be voting 'no', although we agree at first, but we cannot agree with the way it is formulated, as legal support for a large number of people who do not deserve it will also be extended. As regards the amendment with a general number of 2100 and a special 95 we will vote 'no'. In Amendment No 2101 and in Amendment No 96, we will vote'residents'. In Amendment No 2104 and in Amendment No 99 we will be voting'represent' because it is necessary to stay in these soldiers in units of increased operational readiness throughout their term of office. We will also be voting on the amendment with a general number of 2105 and a special 100. In Amendment No 2103 and in Amendment No 98, which concerns the strengthening of undertakings issuing newspapers in Greece, we are voting 'yes'. In Amendment No 2106 and in Amendment No 98 we are voting 'no'. In Amendment No 2108 and in Amendment No 103 we are voting 'no'. In Amendment No 2107 and in Amendment No 102 we are voting 'no'. In Amendment No 2109 and in Amendment No 104 we are voting 'no'. In Amendment No 2112 and in Amendment No 105 we are voting 'yes'. For the rest, we do not know yet whether or not the Minister approves them. You will allow me a final comment. We are talking again about a bill. I read you just more than fifteen amendments. Unfortunately, even at the last minute, Ministers, there are amendments which we do not have the opportunity to study. Soon the vote begins. Once again, you are presenting a bad example of legitimisation. Unfortunately, this government has broken every record in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and students and four educational attendants from the 15th Elementary School of Evosmos Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Tsakalis will now be given the floor from SYRIZA and will be followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Pafilis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u141	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u142	I am presenting to the Secretariat the legislative improvements so that Members and ladies and gentlemen can share them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I come back with the encouragement, Mr Ministers, to tell us about the amendments, because the list is being completed. Already half the Members of Parliament, who are to intervene, have spoken and specifically have spoken four Members and are closed down. Should not this House know what you are doing and what you are not accepting? Mr. Jamaklis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if the amendment we tabled - Mr Karayannides, Mr Simorellis and I - is accepted not to accept it, because it is on this point that I shall speak. It is this which concerns the inclusion of the institution of legal support in the cases of social criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u145	I'm sorry, is there a reference to Amendment No 2099?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u146	I don't have her number, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u147	To add a social criterion. It is the amendment with a general number of 2099 and a special 94.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u148	I don't have it in front of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u149	Mr Jamakalis, because, because I have listened to you and said that you want to be on it, do you want us to give you the right to speak at the end, waiting for the Minister to accept it or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u150	If the Minister accepts it, I have no reason to place myself. No problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u151	As you think. I don't want to deprive you of your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u152	No problem. I don't want to take the time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u153	There's no question of time. It's okay. If you want to put yourself in for something else, for the bill, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u154	Let me support it, Mr President. I don't know, of course, the result. Mr Ministers, at the initiative of the suspect and with the signature of Mr Karayannides and Mr Simorelis, an amendment concerning paragraph 2 of Article 5 of Law 3883/2010 was tabled in relation to the social criteria and the ability of officials to choose a place of preference. That provision was adopted in 2010. We have an amendment to the best where other cases were included with L.4407/2016. The plan adds the condition of diabetes mellitus. The three Members are proposing that, in these cases, the social criteria should include the assignment by court of the legal support of adults who are suffering from disability and are related to the officials of the Armed Forces, up to the second degree, namely parents and brothers. It is not necessary for the wife or children to enter here because there is a prior provision. I would like to explain: While it is provided for in the amendment, which was made in 2016, to be able to prefer a place of transfer or place of place for executives in cases where the custody of a disabled person is assigned, this diligence is a part of legal support. A member of the Armed Forces may not apply to a court of first instance in order to entrust him with custody. This must be applied for with a request for legal support. Therefore, let us say so, no matter what the inclusion of custody of a person is unless there is the inclusion of legal support. I therefore think that for reasons of rationality, but also for reasons of formality and substance, the amendment by the three Members that I mentioned before should be accepted should be accepted. We have been informed orally today - I do not know if it is true - that it will not be accepted. We do not have the grounds, but I think that, Minister, it must be included. I told you before that it was a matter of reasonable and legal accuracy. So please, and I appeal to you to accept it. I do not think there is any question of abuse on the part of executives. Besides, there's an insurance link. The prosecutor is informed, and if the Ministry wants an insurance policy more, the requesting official should also be informed of the Ministry of National Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr. Jamaklis. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, before I give the floor to Mr Pafile, to make a statement to this House. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u156	Our rapporteur has already been mentioned in detail both in committee and here. I would like to repeat a few things with regard to our appreciation of this bill. What's the bill doing? It makes some partial contributions to key sections relating to the composition of the entity of today's Armed Forces. It makes some arrangements in fragmentary terms that some move in a positive direction and we will vote on them. However, as a whole, they are far from satisfying the expectations of the personnel of the Armed Forces, but also of the Greek people. And here we start from a basic principle and a radical disagreement with the situation that exists today. What is the mission of the country's Armed Forces? It is the safeguarding of the borders, that is, the territorial integrity and the sovereign rights of our country. It's over. And we're going on: Exclusively. This is the view of the JRC and, regardless of how it is expressed, the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. I mean, no matter how it's expressed politically. But is that so? Is that only the Armed Forces in our country? Of course not. Besides, it was said by Minister Apostolakis that he is a factor of peace and security in the region and around the world. See NATO, see imperialism, see European Union. So, in Afghanistan, the Greek army is a security factor? What security factor are we talking about? Since our country in NATO, but in particular in recent years, it has been fully integrated into all NATO's plans, which have always been the armed hand of imperialism, the ruthless murderer of the peoples, the one who preserves the interests of capital, those who protect with the blood of peoples, disasters, wars, etc., the domination of the capitalist system. Does NATO's policy have anything to do with it, as we have known - I will say after 1990, because before it is known or, in any case, we have no time to analyse it - with the interests of our people? Does it have anything to do with the interests in general of the peoples of the region, where the Armed Forces are invited to serve their strategy? Speaking of which, let's see financially. The Greek people finance over 4.1 billion - over 2% of GDP, and congratulations from Trump - have also been mentioned to follow other countries - each year inertly. What's he funding? The protection of the country's borders and territorial integrity? It's a place, of course, and we don't want to erase it. However, in fact, with all the developments and what has been said, it finances participation in the American imperialist plans. He's a lot of financing it. How? Firstly, equipment: what has happened all these years and what is happening today, with the obligation of the country to be equipped exclusively with naval weapons, apart from the exceptions that exist for S -300 and TOR - M1, to be buttoned with navals. Why do they get buttoned? Because buttoning means they can even neutralize them in a time of crisis that the Americans will take another place in a time of war. And it is obliged to buy expensive weapons and inefficiently for the geographical relief, as they say, our country and the region. And yet, he's buying it. Secondly - here we have done the question before - what has been happening in recent years with the military exercises is inconceivable. It has never happened in any period of the country's history. How many billions the Greek people pay! Example, Norway: What does it have to do with the greatest exercise after the Cold War, with huge military means and fifty thousand personnel, sent by F-16 for officers? In an hour they say - and so it is - ten thousand are only fuels in F-16. Get damages, get personnel, get spare parts, get repairs! So why? What's Greece doing there? Does he fulfil international obligations? What international obligations? To prepare NATO for war with Russia? What's he doing in the Black Sea, the last exercises he went to? Who's the opponent? Tell us the scripts. What was the joint exercise before Greece, Israel and the Americans in the field of Grevenes? What was the script? It was Iran. Who's paying? The Greek people, beyond being involved. They've exceeded every previous one and they're purely aggressive, war-related exercises. Thirdly, the structure of the Armed Forces. 40 percent says NATO and it applies. Rapid intervention forces in NATO service! So the Greek soldiers will be killed and the Greek people will be paid for this for NATO's aggressive plans? What does this have to do with national defense? Let me say one more thing. The Prime Minister presented as a great success the monitoring of the North Macedonian airspace today, which is the second surveillance with Montenegro. Really, will the Greek people pay the F-16 and I don't know what other aircraft they're going to be supervising? What for? What's he got in mind? It's, it says, security in the area. What security in the area? Are they or are they not decisions and obligations towards NATO? So the bill - and these are, in fact, more importantly than the individual, which we do not underestimate at all, because it concerns the personnel of the Armed Forces - substantially adapts the structures, that is, staff, material, education, service infrastructure, to the American standards. For example, what does the OHIM say? We must, he says, move on to interoperability in order to fulfil NATO's obligations. So interoperability is not about national defence, about the obligations towards NATO, which are what? What are NATO plans today and all military scenarios? There are soldiers who aren't in here, and they know them. We know, of course, why they're reading today. What is it? It has started from above to down on the Russian military forces' border, there is the great controversy about the sharing of markets, etc., constantly being projected - and Mr Piat said so, and then - the Russian risk - not that the Russians are good or the Soviet Union - and Greece is part of these war plans. So what does Greece have to do? Make interoperability so that it becomes part of NATO's plans. This becomes more obvious and more challenging than the last visit by the Director of the relevant naval department, who demanded what? Firstly, the interconnection of requirements, standardisation with NATO's defence planning priorities. What defensive design? Do you know any defensive NATO planning? Let's get us here. Let the soldiers go out and talk. Does he have a defensive plan for NATO or does he have an attack plan? Of course, you always have defense, because you might lose your attack. Are his plans aggressively or not? They're aggressive. Secondly, he called for the implementation of NATO standards in the exercises and assessments for the Greek army, which is supposed to defend tomorrow. No, it's supposed to, and the Greek people will do it, and it's proven in their history. So the Greek army is now how will it be assessed? Based on naval standards. What for? To respond to naval missions. Of course, he'll do it and make it strains of the Armed Forces, because he lives those things. Don't look at them. They know how natonics treat themselves, they know these plans, and they know what they should do, but they are the conditions that cannot be manifested yet. Thirdly, the native will check Greek initiatives in the upgrading of education and NATO standardisation. We'll have a verifier. It is not just the memorials and the committee and everyone who controls. We've got Nato too. And that's where she puts her ranks if we're good or if we're not good. So what is the pursuit? To identify the Greek army, the Greek Armed Forces and the plans of the Armed Forces with the respective NATO plans. I repeat that all the exercises, which are carried out - or at least not all of them, will say 99%, so that we are not absolute - are nano-directional and nato-cutting and are also financed by the people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time. Fourth point. What is happening with the SYRIZA Government, which is supposed to be anti-imperialist and everything else, is that Greece has turned into an infinite basis. Take the map. Not even during the period of the so - called Cold War was that. Four new bases have been given this by the government and it has more to do with it. And not just more! I'll say below to hear at least the people who listen to us. What does that mean, practically? That Greece is becoming objectively, in a case of conflict, more general and regional. What else does the drone base mean in Larissa? That it also watches the fly that flys all over Greece. You handed over to the Americans, that is, air control, land control and everywhere. In fact, Mr Piatt made fourth, if I'm not mistaken, his speech. I've lost the account. So I'm asking for this account: Where to where does the American ambassador speak at the Hopeful School, speaks at the National Defence School, speaks at the Icaron School? What is it? Commander of the army? Minister of National Defence of Greece? What kind of humiliation is that? It doesn't even hold the pretext. And what did he say other than others? He went to National Defence School and said about the Syrian war, about the dangers in the region. That's what he said. We ask, for the Minister to answer, what he meant when he said: 'Beyond Souda, there are other, 'non-legal' locations for US military operations in the region, for which we are grateful. We thank the SYRIZA Government - it says - which also gives us 'non-legislative'. And thank you for the installation of the fourth US Brigade in Greece, in Alexandroupolis." Really, what exactly does he say? For U.S. military operations in the region, for which they are grateful. And I guess they're not humanitarian, they're murderous. And history bears witness to it: Yugoslavia, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria. Blood too, full. Apart from that, and with the use of ports and the issue of aviation - I do not want to repeat them, why have they been said, not to spend my time - what is actually happening? Of course, the Minister, Mr King, told us that in a good way he understands the approach, but that is not it. Well, you know, Mr. King? Guard against such statements, because you won't be able to deny them afterwards. Why, when we were talking about Alexandroupolis and Stefanovicio and all the rest of it, you told us it was out of place and time. When we talked about nuclear power at Araxos, the governments used to say they didn't exist and we found them when they took them. Now we are again preparing an inspection by NATO and the Americans to settle. These purposes he serves. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] As far as the problems of staff are concerned - I end, Mr President - are they resolved? Oh, no. Housing, hierarchy, evolution, overtime pay, nights, services, workplace safety. They're not solved. There are some interventions that we have put in. They're positive some. We're not petty. Anything positive that works for the Armed Forces and, more generally, we support it, even though we consider that most of it is'spirins'. In order for definitive solutions to be found, a radically different policy is needed: Armed Forces in the service of the people and the country. Armed Forces, who will not serve imperialist plans, but will defend the interests of the people, the territorial integrity and will not be a branch of the American and Euro-Union troops. I shall say a few words about the amendment. The amendment we are tabling is a birth of the requirement of hundreds of executives and tens of organisations from the Armed Forces. By the way, the twenty-two organisations, which were members of the WTO, have twice as many members and possibly three times the number of others, which were created in secret and undisputed. Secondly, it is those who have opened the way for the union with persecution, with hunting for years and with some legal terminology - if they don't want to say it - that they stay out. What are we asking? To function with Law 1264, as all the trade unions throughout the labour market, the public-service movement, operate. That's exactly what we're asking. This is accepted by everyone, unless others have changed their line now, because we have heard such statements: No more union in the Armed Forces. I heard it, and I don't want to say the name. However, he was a first member of the New Democracy. Everyone else agrees that the basis should be Law 1264, and I imagine that it will be accepted, because SYRIZA has testified likewise. We don't have a problem with the ten organizations. Indicatively, we said more than two. And ten to be and twelve to be, we have no such matter. We think it will be a big, serious decision. What are you afraid of, really? You're afraid of soldiers having rights, making trade unions? Are they defending the country's borders, with their weapons and with their lives directly and you fear them? On the contrary. Our people and the Armed Forces were moral when they defended their homeland and popular interests. And moral is not the various mercenaries of the Americans and others who are fighting aggressive wars. This has been proved in history and in Vietnam and in many other cases. What, then, are you afraid to have all the rights to join wherever they want and to have trade unions, of course taking certain peculiarities into account? As for NSAs, we keep the statement. I just want to remind you, Minister, that many such promises have been made so far. We hope that soon it will be settled and won't go to the bells like it used to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Athanasio Pafili, Parliamentary spokesman. We proceed with Mrs. Evangelia Vagonakis, SYRIZA MP, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u158	Today's bill comes to close a circle of legislation in the present government, which has in the past regulated crucial issues of the Armed Forces, such as wages, the development of permanent staff or trade union issues. This cycle closes with a bill, which leads to even greater justice for the officials of the Armed Forces and the soldiers, without meaning that the inequality and suffering of decades disappears by magic. However, it is clearly reflected in the effort to deepen democracy and equality for the officials of the Armed Forces, which we know are not typical civil servants, because they are responsible with particular responsibilities, which require vigilance and flexibility. One of the main arrangements, introduced, allows for the transfer of organic positions, as necessary, by transferring defence officers and officers from one weapon to another Weapons or Parliament, in order to cover the positions requiring specialized training. The procedure now takes place, the General Staff for all three branches of the Armed Forces, so that there is better supervision. Another important regulation concerns the care for the moral and mental support of those who are removed from active health service, with the possibility of staying in the ranks of the Armed Forces, on condition that they are included in an office service, as long as their illness has taken place in an orderly service. It is of particular importance for many of the military personnel that, on the one hand, it provides for the development of long-term volunteers to the extent of a lieutenant and the corresponding award of a dismissal of a lieutenant and, on the other hand, the possibility of staying out of organic positions until the fifty-eighth year of their age, thereby ensuring the possibility of a full pension right, which until now appeared to be problematic. A provision is also adopted which already applies to the public and provides for reduced working hours for officials who have, or have been, children or persons with a disability of 50%, who are suffering from type A diabetes mellitus, as this mainly occurs in children and who have to deal with it requires special and continuous care. The supporting documents needed to obtain a reduced working hours of these staff are also redefined, and particular attention is paid to the transfer system for third-party staff and multi-text staff, enabling them to serve at sites of preference. The same applies to those who experience health or disability problems or suffer from diabetes themselves or persons in their own family. Also, for the first time, the establishment of the Legal Protection Offices and the possibility of legal support is provided by officials of the Legal Council of State, while the practical recognition of the services offered by those who served in Cyprus during the periods, which were recognised as wartime, is achieved by providing them with free hospital treatment. Ladies and gentlemen, we must focus on extending the benefit of a reduced term of office to all children of a third or a multitude of families in the context of protecting the institution of the family. It is planned that military commitments be settled by the end of 2020, so that young people who want to do so, return and close their military unsettlings, will be settled. We are also simplifying the procedure for post-classification, for social reasons. The period of five days before the date of classification for the submission of the application shall be abolished and the duration of the deferral shall be increased. Conscientious objections, with a view to restoring the principle of equality and equal treatment between them and the hosts of a term of office, provide for a reduction in the age limit for the acquisition of the alternative term of office, as well as the time of service in this case. As far as the duration of the alternative term is concerned, it has not changed in time. However, a ministerial decision may, as a minimum, be redefined during the military service. Also, the composition of the Special Committee on Conscience Response is changed with an increase in the participation of the Teachers from two to three and a corresponding reduction in the representatives of the Armed Forces from two to one to further compliance of our country with the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights and the case-law of the Council of State. Now, with students in Military Schools, who come during their school with health problems, they will now be able to stay in the Armed Forces in a way that can be exploited by the Service. For children of families affected by the catastrophic summer fires, legislation is proposed to introduce them in a special manner and to exceed the total number of importers in the Military Schools. In addition, there was for the first time the integration of the Military Schools into the transfer system of the students of brothers, who are studying in different cities. The bill also goes on to modernise the institutional framework of the school of Navalath Crete. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I am closing my speech with the adjustment of the total income of all retrospectives paid in 2018 for restoring the injustices of older years, so that they do not become a pretext for paying all kinds of social rights and benefits, linked to income criteria. This arrangement will also apply to those paid on special wages, security bodies, musical and medical staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Ms. Vagonakis, MP of SYRIZA. SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Mr Theodores Dritsas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal of discussion has taken place, particularly from the Qualified Opposition, where it has been repeatedly stated that this bill is in danger of the armies' worthlessness or discipline, that hierarchy and much more is being violated. Allow me, before I enter the bill myself, to say that yesterday, in this Chamber, a process took place, which is a leading historic moment for the political history of the country, but also for the history of the Greek Parliament, the historic debt to the victims of Naziism by adopting, by a large majority, the resolution on the claim of compensation for what has been suffered by our country - among many other countries - the Greek people and the martyrdom cities from Nazi atrocity. It was very characteristic how, at a time when the message the political forces and the Greek Parliament must send was to encourage and strengthen the self-confidence of the Greek people, the opposition was mainly consumed - and the KINAL - whether it was the first or the second made the proposal, etc. And in the end, only six Members of the New Democracy Parliament and two of the KINAAL were present in this Chamber, which was celebratingly and consistently applauded by this historic decision. The rest of the benches from here were empty. But the message was sent, not everyone sent it. That is precisely why, in a debate on the Armed Forces today, some also wanted, instead of talking about it, to bring us Scandalism again in the cheapest way. The Vice President of the New Democracy has come to tell us about Mr Marinakis, about his interview and the "big revelations" and to ask why they were not answered. He hadn't been able to leave the Chamber and the answers had been given. And they were paid answers by the government and by the Prime Minister's office for the "supposedly-supported revelations of Mr Marinakis, on the very day of the finalisation of his reference to a trial with heavy charges for stationed struggles". Once again, has it been demonstrated who is the true Chief of Officer Response with the failure - I don't know? - its President, but in any case it is clear that Mr Marinakis claims the leadership of the New Democracy. Informal, of course, but essentially. All of this, at the same time that "Kathimerini" on its website yesterday had a post, which "AGEI" did not have "LEFT", did not have a website on the Left, titled "BLOMBERG" which said: "Learn which Mediterranean economy did not collapse, the Greek economy". It describes the BLOOMBERG report there - the BLOOMBERG! - exactly how the Greek economy has walked in recent years with a government of SYRIZA, to raise the heavy wounds from bankruptcy. In other words, to lay the foundations for a new recovery of the course of the Greek people. So there we see exactly what the responsibility of political opinions, political proposals and luggage are with which each party comes to Parliament and to the public debate. "Provisions for the care of armed forces, military, military justice and other provisions" is the title of this bill that we are discussing and will be voting on shortly. That's what this is about. What are these arrangements that ensure for the personnel of the Armed Forces? They were mentioned in detail by our rapporteur, Christos Karayannides, and other SYRIZA Members who spoke, the Deputy Minister and the Minister of Defence, and I do not need to repeat them. After all, public dialogue and interest have become known. They are, however, care arrangements. Lucky? Quotes? Handcuffs? No, mature, mature and well-thought out, and through constant attention and dialogue, so that these necessary arrangements, which go hand in hand with problems, do not disturb this overall cohesion. In the face of this, the New Democracy has told us that it will vote against this bill, although I believe that most of the provisions will be passed because it cannot do anything else. And when he becomes a government, he dreams! - he'll abolish it. Our rapporteur, Christos Karayannides, has rightly asked one in one of these issues of care arrangements for the personnel of the Armed Forces, whether or not they will be abolished, and he has not, of course, received a reply. For it is incomprehensible that these planned, mature, positive arrangements for the personnel of the Armed Forces should be abolished. He won't dare, but, you know, granulating, we say big words. And that's exactly the irresponsible micropolitical attitude, because it doesn't take them, it doesn't suit them. They cannot accept that this government step forward - step by step is progressing towards great, small, medium-sized, quality and important, arrangements and measures that really reorientate both the public administration and the Greek society and enable us to plan in the next four years, in fact, the course of the Greek economy and the Greek society, based not on a hollow growth for few, but on a social state, support and prioritisation of workers' rights, taking into account work as the first priority for development, and on this basis, with these pillars building the new Greece. On this basis, then, the New Democracy, when it understands - and it understands it very often, unfortunately, about it - that the policy of the SYRIZA Government - a step forward - solves problems - many of them, in fact, are problems of thirty years, forty-years - at national level, in international relations, at internal level, at State and public administration level and on many other levels, it is impossible to recruit a representative, only destroying and zeroing every positive measure and every positive offer. Her parliamentary representative, Mr Kefaloyannis, and other Members, came here, and they said that these were the individual arrangements, that the whole plan is missing. I am sure the Minister has too much to tell us about this. But where was the opposition disaster in New Democracy? In Article 15, the Legal Protection Office. Mr. King, the Deputy Minister, has already responded, but the Minister of National Defence Mr. Apostolakis, in a way that is absolutely a disgrace to all those who at the Legal Protection Office, allegedly, discover the undermining of the hierarchy and the reputable soldier of the army. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be serious. These things do not just reflect political conservatism. They illustrate a political approach that refers to the stone age. Is it possible that the oath of obedience actually given by the members of the Armed Forces to the superiors means the arbitraryness of the above, meaning the absence of protection of personality, dignity, legitimacy, of any strain? That's not what the general wants either. All Armed Forces are formed by the composition of the operation of all these executives, at their ranks, precisely because they serve the common goal. This unites the general with the newly-occupied phantom. And this unity really, when it exists, is completely functional and justifies both hierarchy and discipline. How is this ensured? We shall return, in other words, to the famous times where, for the sake of unity and the hierarchy and worthy of the army, even the spouses of the military had to be chosen from private offices of the Armed Forces, have a dowry and are not to be blamed by a 'communist idea', why did this undermine the worthy of the Armed Forces? At this time, we will be re-emerging, why is a Legal Protection Office set up? Let me not now describe what Article 15 says. Let him read it every chilly and trustworthy man to make his conclusion. The government doesn't have to say it, SYRIZA doesn't have to say it. These are outrageous things. We now come to the arrangements for the conscientious objections, which is the second'scan' of this bill, which is also called 'frog', the Minister of National Defence, and until the very first Chief of the Armed Forces, because it undermines the dignity of the army, giving - he says - the message that you, the sucklers, are going to the islands and the border and that the other one sits on the ground. This is what you have understood, Mr Europeans, progressive, modern-day New Democracy, from the United Nations' decisions, from the international recognition of the right to objections of conscience, from all fora, from the European Court of Human Rights, from all international formations? Is that what you understand, that conscientious objections are licking? The first objection of conscience - I don't know if anyone else existed - was a man exemplary, not only then, but throughout his life, Michael Maragakis. In 1986 he publicly stated his refusal to join the Hellenic Army on grounds of conscience. He was sentenced to five years in prison, passed by an equal number of military prisons, did three times a hunger strike and was released in 1988. His struggle became a pan-European and global one and raised the issue of the democratisation of the data in the country. This high-level man then taught and took generations of pupils to Lefkada. He taught them physics, taught them chemistry, taught them biology, taught them geography, taught them veterinary, taught them agriculture, because they were concerned with everything. And he taught them not only to the children of Lefkada, but also to his five children, because five children had Michael Maragakakis on this route. So he offered home what none of us have offered. Is Michalis Maragakis a conscientious conscientious conscientious, who must be sentenced to extra service, and if that is not the case, will we have a disaster, will we be undermining the coherence of the army and the worthwhile one? Are you going to the European elections with these minds? Are you going with these minds for the new Europe? Apologise, for accountability, for restraining, for let go of all three, four, five, ten people on your line, who may have another perspective, to give another signal that the country needs. It is possible for the Greek society to be poisoned, for democratic institutions to be denounced, for in five years five hundred, six hundred people - if I am not discredited by the Minister and the evidence he has had - served an alternative term of office within five years. Is he threatening this remarkable? And that is why the Greek state and all the states, because it is not what declarations are, it respects the rights of conscientious objections when it is against conscience and takes its measures - and this has nothing to do with the subordinates, which is another history and which has other procedures - so as to enable everyone who is against conscience, to be recognised in the most responsible and transparent way, this quality, this identity, so that he, too, can exercise what the world society has recognised as his right, but also the Greek state to have its rules. So where do you find the problem? It is being reduced - it says - the objectivity of the Armed Forces' officials, because the Council of State thus considered it best, to be precisely valid and transparent, in line with international standards. Can I or any strain of the Armed Forces or any capacity to make the intersection and understand whether the identity of conscience is actually forming? The knowledge needed to approach it is very special. We must ensure this in the simplest and normal way. Is that a disgrace? I shall conclude, Mr President - and thank you for your tolerance - by saying a few words about the amendment tabled by Mr Karayannides, Mr Rizzos, Mr Jakamalis and I, as far as the military union is concerned and everything that has happened. They have already been said and other things will be said until the end. It's not an intervention. It is possible for the officials of the Armed Forces to find themselves democratically and transparently, both through defenceless or possibly trade union competition, the opportunity to define their own houses. That's all there is to it. I think that this amendment - which I believe will be accepted, will be announced by the Minister - can provide precisely a framework for those who define their own conscience and interests. Finally, an amendment which we have also tabled by Mr Karayannides, Mr Dessa, Mr Toskas and myself, by a general number of 2112 and a special 105, refers to those people who are studying in the productive schools, who lose their status, because they are rejected in certain courses and then - very few are, but it is unfair - to pay the tuition fees of two and a half years, three and a half years. We have incidents of people who have left these schools, who have already taken two and three universities, have postgraduate and doctorate, and are burdening them with a debt of 50,000 euros as a penalty, because they have not succeeded in one lesson going to the productive school. It is absurd and must be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa. The Minister has the floor for legislative improvements and to tell us which parliamentary and ministerial amendments he makes are acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u162	What legislative improvements? They can't come now that the bill is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u163	It's not like you call it. Now you'll hear and then you'll be able to place yourself. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Let me make a few comments for two minutes on the bill. The first point concerns the speech made by Mr Adonis Georgiadis. I do not want it to be seen as a personal matter. I have been listening for three days to this rhetoric and to try to shape either that there is a different approach of things between me and the Minister, or that he has in a way altered his historic presence in the Armed Forces and that what we are proposing does not correspond to his historic, operational and scientific adequacy over the years. I don't think he's honoring us. It's, I'd say, cheap confrontation. In any case, we are having a debate on other terms. I kept as low as possible, and when I took personal attacks. Why am I saying that? Because there is a great deal of experience, and unfortunately we know very well that it is not ownership. Others feel and feel with property perception the Greek Armed Forces. The circumstances change. In Europe they are also different in America and in other countries. This way of approaching things gives value to these people, to all the personnel of the Armed Forces, honors them with these efforts and in this way they are treated. That is why, at the moment, the bill responds to a large majority of the personnel of the Armed Forces. Observation 2. A number of things have been heard about Article 32 at the moment. Article 32 concerns those who have graduated from the Schools of S.H.I.E.L.D. It may be a controversy for all volunteers. The graduates begin to take into account their presence in the Armed Forces and pensions from the year of their registration. What's this bill doing? It gives this right from ranking for both volunteers. Why is he doing this? I may understand why there is an objection of that kind. But the objection does not correspond to the real circumstances and needs of the economic conditions that exist and the difficulties of everyone having a decent real pension and a better financial opportunity corresponding to their service presence, the trouble they spend, the defence of their homeland, the difficulties they have, because they are also partners. Also, they're two different yearbooks. They don't get involved in this part. It's two different charges. A third point concerns this and the restructuring of the Armed Forces. I will not disagree with the approaches that are being taken because there is something special to me too. It is particularly difficult to deal with such problems, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, the division that exists. Believe me, we made an effort with the Minister to alleviate the injustices that exist. That's what we did. To move towards a comprehensive restructuring is the objective of the next government. Because we're going to be government. And the bill, as Mr. Kikilis dreams, will not be withdrawn. This restructuring will be done, because it was appropriate to do so. It was advisable how they formed such a coexistence against a client state. That's what happened. And that's what we're trying to improve. However, as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, it is not simple and easy to collect this whole story and even when everyone has his rights acquired to date. I promise you and SYRIZA will do it. We are now going to restructure the Greek Armed Forces. This has gone ahead and we've talked about it in the first place. You were informed by the previous Ministers and by the Armed Forces Committee that on the basis of the financial difficulties that existed, with the reduction in the budget, but at the same time also with the use of human resources and resources and materials, a very great redeployment, reform and restructuring of the Hellenic Armed Forces took place. That is why I can guarantee you today that we are in complete adequacy, so nothing happened or anyone has tried to question the integrity of our country, despite the economic and refugee crisis that we have been through. I will also insist on what I have said and on airworthiness. Also with all due respect for everyone, do not make assumptions about certain things or in any case see some other issues. In other words, he asked the JRC - not to impersonate - why in northern Macedonia or Montenegro we should have air surveillance. Firstly, because they do not have the potential. Secondly, our security in the region is very important, because you all know very well that Turkey had made this effort in the previous period and would probably take over this surveillance. So that's why they have our security. You may disagree, but I explain the reasons and what gravity is in this case. I must say one last thing. Mr. Dritsa, thank you very much for the reminder of Michael Maragakis. It was a time when I served my service for twenty-four months. Really, it's touching what Michael Maragakis did. It is the other concept, the right that has been given and the constitutional right, and today it is called into question. It is increasingly the attitude taken by the New Democracy, a great retreat, outside the neoliberal, outside the liberal ideas that he expressed in previous years. And that's an accident. You'll pay for it, gentlemen of the New Democracy. As you create this perception, we will have phenomena, such as yesterday that the Golden Dawn did not support this great consensual proclamation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u165	Lie! Lies, blam, blam, blam, blam, blam, blam, blam, Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u166	In fact, when the Golden Dawn had never talked about this, they did not resist Nazism, but they salute the symbols and applaud Nazism, that is, welcome what happened in Greece in the previous years, the years of the Occupation. It is an accident, even today, that Greeks follow this concept.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u167	Did you win your anti-fascist ten minutes? Liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall proceed with the amendments. I shall start with the ministerial amendments. The amendment, with a general number of 2103 and a special 98, deals with digital policy and telecommunications. They have been accepted and supported by the ministers. In addition, Amendment No 2104 and Specific No 99, Amendment No 2105 and Specific Amendment No 100, Amendment No 2106 and Special Amendment No 101, Amendment No 2107 and Amendment No 102, Amendment No 2108 and Special Amendment No 103. I am in favour of the amendments. The amendment, with a general number of 2097 and a special 92, is the amendment tabled by the JRC and a related amendment, with a general amendment of 2109 and a special 104, tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. It is accepted - because it is relevant - that the amendment of the SYRIZA, as it is its text and with the following legal improvement: in paragraph 4 of the only article of the amendment, under the general number 2109 and special 104, entitled 'Amendment to Article 30c of Law 1264/1982', the words 'primary and' are deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u169	Amendment No 2098 by the JRC is not acceptable. I explained it. Mr Paphie, because you brought it back - and you did well, I have no objections - it is not that we have heard of it before. I have said that on several occasions, I have told the workers. Let a little shape the financial place in the next few days. There is no question at all. In fact, they know, they have accepted it and the administration has said that. It's not a matter. The third amendment, with a general number of 2100 and a special 95, is not acceptable. The amendment with a general number of 2101 and a special 96, 'Restriction of experience in operations on submarines and warships of the Hellenic Navy', is accepted with the legislative improvement that I will present. I read it when I first spoke. I don't know if you want me to tell you again. It concerns the recruitment procedures of permanent civil servants to cover submarine work, and I say: (a) ‘Experience in tasks or projects related to the object of the post shall be mobilised by seven units per month and by a total of up to eighty-four months’ and (b) in particular the experience gained from the provision of services in accordance with Article 26(4) of L.4258/2014 shall be mobilised by 20 units per month for the first thirty six months and seven points for each month thereafter until the eighth four months’. This is about continuing and being able to complete the presentation of the submarines.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u170	The amendment with a general number of 2102 and a special 97, 'integrating distinguished students into the Armed Forces', cannot be accepted. The amendment with a general number of 2109 and a special 104, which is an amendment to Article 30c of Law 1264/1982. I'm sorry, that's what we said before. The amendment with a general number of 2112 and a special 105, which is an amendment to Article 8 of Law 1910/1990, is accepted. The amendment under general number 2114 and a specialist number 106, is not acceptable. Amendment No 2116 and special 107, 'Recommendation of an independent subunit entitled 'Institutional representation offices', cannot be accepted. The amendment with a general number of 2117 and a specialist of 108 is accepted. I would also like to remind you, because I said so in my speech, and the Minister said so, Amendment No 2104, and Amendment No 99, is accepted. It's for the OBA term.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u171	Minister, can you tell us the content of this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u172	You're right, Mr. Jamaklis. I'll explain. It cannot be accepted for this reason, I will tell you directly. Firstly, we give justice to judicial custody and indeed to a wide range, namely that it is not just the child or the mother or the father, that he is the first cousin and, if necessary, the second cousin. Why the other one? It is very easy to give legal support, so let me say it, it is easy at this stage too, with the needs we have and with the provision of the Forces, we cannot guarantee it and we cannot cover it in any way. We're looking at it with sensitivity. I often sign and accept any pleas that are coming. This cannot be guaranteed and must be done. There aren't units many times where they want to go. So there is a great problem in the provision of the personnel of the Armed Forces. It is this - let me say, many times it has also been heard in the committee - that the'recent'. It's not easy to keep the Armed Forces unchanged. For the positions that exist, the specialties that exist, the needs that exist are in these areas where the Greek Armed Forces have been ordered. That is why, as well as in order not to create other problems, we cannot take responsibility for something that we cannot do. Indeed, you know the legal support - I understand it and I say it directly - when it comes, you have to do it. And because we have a lot of people who have such a need, it can't be evaluated. When it is done by law, Mr. Jamakli, this problem arises. I wish I could find a solution. The Staff and leadership of the Armed Forces see this with sensitivity, we see it, but we cannot do this by the order of the Greek Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Minister. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas has the floor. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u174	A few minutes ago, a few minutes ago, the Composter Minister of National Defence, Mr. King, as a common liar, a slander, a left slander, said that the Golden Dawn did not vote yesterday for German war damages, that it did not vote in favour of returning the wealth of the Greek people, the mortgage loan, the corrections etc. To be cursed by a political-level king, after for many minutes he has washed the ego of one - I don't even remember his name, I remember the case of the 1980s - conscientious objection, to be cursed by such an unrealized press and, unfortunately, this man being a Minister of National Defence is a title of honor. Thank you, Mr King, for a few more months, Minister and politically active. In a few months you'll be back in your holes! A great deal of noise was made by the "pads" of the system on this issue, a lot of misinformation to the Greek people that supposedly the Golden Dawn did not vote in favour of German allowances. And Mr King had to be interrupted at the time for the manoeuvre and falsehood he made in this Chamber, as a common muslim and slander! I hate talking about King. The truth toward falsehood must finally shine, the truth to your coalitioned political forces of the self-determination constitutional arch, which in reality you are deeply and permanently anti-democratic and anti-democratic arch and anti-national, considering the size of treason with the Ambassadors' agreement. Before I come to the Armed Forces Legislation, Mr President, I would like to refer to today, not unusual and original news. I want to refer to the tangible results of rajadism. The news is already transmitted to all media and says that Turkish fighters harassed the helicopter on which the Greek Chief of the General Staff was on board. Very close to the military helicopter on which the Chief of HGS, General Kampas - you know, he was also commander of the 4th Corps kidnapped by the Turkish two officers, two soldiers, and that is why he was praised by the left government and became Chief of HGS - two F-16 fighter aircraft, which had violated the national airspace. The episode occurred in the morning around 8: 30. The Sinook with Lt-Gen Kaba was over Ro and just before the landing of this two-pilot F-16 F-16 Fantom was found breathless on the coast of Ro. They flew low to an altitude of about 500 meters and moved very close to the shores. Military sources say a mile. The scene was repeated after a few hours, noon, and again in Symi by F-16. They therefore want the Turks to question the Greekness of our regions and especially in the sensitive Greek area of Dodecanese and the complex of the rocky islands of Megisti, Ros etc. I would like to repeat here the words of the leader of the Golden Dawn, which in practice prove to be the only realistic approach and place against Turkish provocation and aggression. Mr Michaloliakos said: "We should defend our national sovereignty whether it concerns Cyprus or the Imias. Unfortunately, the Turks do not understand any other language than the policy of cannoners. This means powerful Armed Forces and only then will we be able to claim what belongs to us." And what did we see? We have seen - they are now absent from the benches. There's no Minister. The King and Apostolakis - Apostolakis, the old "fashion" were put on the run, to continue to chop for temper and confidence-building measures, carved in the camps with the ambassador of the United States, Mr. Piat. Mr. Apostolakis, NATO security is above all for you. You are a 'yes man'. Also, 10 days ago, we had the strong and unprecedented - I would say - intervention by ten honorary military leaders in repatriation who write and sign an article - an appeal to the political and military leadership. I read what the generals said: "The powerful Armed Forces make the country respectable to friends and respecters of opponents. In this controversy Greek invoking international law is not sufficient to deal with the aggression of Turkey, which in its attitude and behaviour in the wider region shows that only the language of power is perceived." Whatever the Chief of Golden Dawn said. "Government for the sake of justice is judged, as is possible, by Thucydides. I pay ελληνική ελληνική: "The argument of justice is worth only between equals. Otherwise the mighty imposes what is permitted by his power and by the weaker assigns what is imposed upon him by his weakness.’ Honourable leaders continue: "Unfortunately, the possibilities of the Greek Armed Forces for the last 15 years have been in constant expansion, which is continuing to accelerate during the period of economic crisis. As a result, the balance of power between Greece and Turkey is constantly changing in favour of the second. Retreating the relative combat capacity of the Armed Forces can lead to national losses that can reach the level of national destruction in the most immediate and absolute way possible, as happened in 1897. It is more than clear that the economic and social crisis, which we are all experiencing, has inevitably affected our country's defence." It's called the honorary Chiefs. There have been huge cuts in the operational costs of the Armed Forces and, on the other hand, in the armaments programmes, we have a reduction which is unprecedented and which affects the functionality and defence of our country. We also have a reduction in staff, a closure of units and camps. Unfortunately, the political establishment that ruled our homeland was facing the Armed Forces with one, we could call it a fearful syndrome. If anyone talks about the need to strengthen the Armed Forces, if he talks about the issues of men and women in the Armed Forces, it will be dealt with by the political establishment as a militant, extremist or, at best, politically correct thinking. Many are so left-wing idealists, but also liberals who suggest even the gradual abolition of the Armed Forces. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, "war fathers of all," Heraklitos said, and it also applies to everyday life. There is a peculiar day-to-day war, air breaches, questioning our national sovereignty, questioning our islands. What's all this? This is all war. What do we have, when we are threatened by exercising our legal right, under international law, of extending our territorial waters and our airspace? What do we have when the Cypriot EEZ is effectively and directly questioned? What is the situation when the Turks run a giant armament programme of tens of billion dollars in order to become a regional force? When even Albanians, with the backs of the Americans and NATO, intensify their intransigence and provocativeness when turning even today against the Hellenism of Northern Epirus? What do we have then? What have we got in Thrace when there is an attempt to cosmopolitanize effectively day after day, with the Ankara agents literally perpetuating without reacting to the Greek authorities and services? Instead of awakening, what do we do? We're constantly reducing our defensive costs. Prophemus Kos had said in the 5th century B.C.E. The same is true today and will apply: “He that repenteth of the wise man.” You, of course, are not wise at all. You lack wisdom, but unfortunately you lack common sense, common sense. All these years of the dominance of clipping in our homeland have become waste, the truth is that. The Army also became wasted and mismanaged and, unfortunately, many of them were rich and many of them were released free on the backs and at the expense of the Armed Forces and the backs of the Greek people. We, Mr President - and I will take some of my dentistry, as some of the previous parliamentary representatives have done - have said many times and we have said that again that Armed Forces are not the tanks, the fryers, the planes, it is not just that. Armed Forces are the men and women, the soldiers, the men and women of our Armed Forces, the military, the institution most trusted by the Greek people. That is not what I am saying, it comes from all the polls and the investigations that have been carried out. And yet the current government and the previous one, the memorandum governments, their cruelty in terms of wage and economic matters, are also exhausted to them. Admiral Koundouriotis - a speaker here today said it and it is true - had noted and ultimately justified that ships unfitly inflamed are lead-free sinking in water, wanting to stress the importance of the care of the staff. It is personal that you do not feel, because the twenty-four months said by the King who served were the months of strife and slavery for Mr. King. This is the difference between us and you. Our difference is that we have served and will serve if we need to rejoice with the Armed Forces and the Greek Stratos again. I will close with this, Mr President: what has to be done? There is a lot to be done and it relates to national foreign policy, IEZ, the country's shield, the mandate it speaks of and the bill in question. There is no question of reducing the term, but there is a real increase in the term. There's a question, dragged from February to the Ministry of National Defence, and I've made it up to date. It will not be discussed and I will be tabling it again and I will not stop tabling it. There is an urgent need to increase military service. I am not saying it, the logic says it in their discussions is the ten honorary leaders who wrote the article on national security and defence. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As has also been mentioned by the Step forward in relation to our country's takeover of the Macedonian airspace, I am tabling this question in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am not allowed to do so, Mr President. I have the answer from the Minister of National Defence, a monument of rajadism, a monument of naval liquor, a monument of pilgrimage to the masters of the Americans and the rest of our supposedly allies in NATO. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Mr President, I close and say that we have confidence in our militant children, in our youths who serve their term of office. The term of office should be total for us goldens, should be for boys and girls in the 18th year of age, to be at least 14 months. We also say that a great deal of attention should be paid to military training and soldiers should not be involved in meaningless chores and other occupations. Our young soldiers should not engage in occupations that are incompatible with their term of office, because they are in line with another working class, which I do not wish to insult, as yet - it offers the highest in the national economy. But I would like to say that our Army is not a hotel crew or a hotspot servants. There, if you want, you can send SYRIZA youth, the non-existent, of course, youth of SYRIZA, as proved in the last student elections. Mr President, I had a lot to say. I want to say that we have complete confidence in the Armed Forces, we have complete confidence in these men and women, who often without supporting their political and physical leadership, give battle every day, without counting hardships, sacrifices, without compromising the effects on their personal lives, their living, their family, they give their best self. There are many who without logistical support, without infrastructure, without wages, with unacceptable wages, are struggling with love at the Nation, with faith in the ideals and values, with which we golden-growers and which we values will not stop defending. And we will not stop defending these ideals at any price, whatever mud and sieves will fire, and not just against us. I would once again like to say to you who voted for the infamous and treacherous Prespecies Agreement - and I will not stop saying it - that Macedonia is one and it is Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three educational attendants from the 8th Elementary School of Evosmos Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Tell the students that they're attending a meeting where we're discussing a bill from the Ministry of National Defence. There is a debate between the parties and the MPs, and at the end, we are voting on the bill which, when voted on, becomes the law of the state. Mr Karayannides, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes for his second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u176	Let me say first of all that I have listened with interest to the rapporteur of the New Democracy and the MPs not to confirm the Vice-President of the New Democracy that he will abolish the bill as a whole as a bill of shame - I read from the Minutes what the Vice-President has said - and that therefore, we will go a little better with regard to this bill. Now, I will concentrate on three topics: conscientious objections, the office set up at the Staff Regulations and one topic raised by Article 32. As far as conscientious objections are concerned, we have heard a great deal. The New Democracy does not want to admit international and internal institutions, i.e. the High Commissioner and the European Council, which say specific things about objections of conscience. To accept that it does not agree with what all these institutions say, although they want to belong to Europe. I would remind them, of course, because it has been heard by some speakers in the New Democracy, that we are making the great crime lower by three months the alternative term and going from fifteen to twelve. I would remind them that under Article 5(1), New Democracy had reduced the alternative term by seven months. I imagine that the army did not collapse when the mandate was reduced by seven months. We should know that the alternative term had started from very high, from thirty-six, if I remember correctly, and we got to fifteen. Of the thirty-six out of fifteen, the twenty-one-month reduction took place on either side of the New Democracy or the PASOK and did not collapse. However, I also think they are a maximum insult to people who say their objection to go to the army to be told again by the Vice-President of the New Democracy that they are good-for-nothing, maximum insult to a part of our society that has other options. I do not know if it is adopted by the whole of the New Democracy that conscientious objections are well-meaning. The rapporteur will obviously answer. To go through the second issue. I suspect that in the US army that has many threats too, because there is such an office, you should find some questions or excuses because the Americans and they want to downgrade or undermine the credibility and worthy of the US army. Before going to Article 32, I want something that we have not tabled, and it may be our fault. I don't know if it would have been accepted. There is the question of conscientious objections: When they serve their alternative term and fall into disciplinary misconduct, they are automatically deducted from the alternative term. It's a little tough. I mean, for a disciplinary offense that elsewhere you wouldn't expel from this service or from a service or whatever. And in the Army, when you do something disciplinary misdemeanor, you're eating a prison. It is not possible for a person who is in the alternative service, if he falls into a disciplinary misconduct, who is automatically withdrawn, that there is no justification why this disciplinary misconduct has been done and that the necessary sanctions are taken. Maybe we could change it. I'm hanging up with Article 32. An issue has been raised. I think that in order to ease or, anyway, to listen to the people who are opposed, but also to the people who are in favour of this regulation, to talk to the Ministry to raise the issues by those concerned and I think there are strong arguments for this article, but the people concerned want to hear their voices and listen to them as we have done in the past with the two previous bills. We have reached the point in making arrangements for graduates from PSAs because they have also been wronged in the past. We made it right. Now, do not come to re-create such an issue that we need to make another regulation to correct injustice. So listen to the representatives why they are complaining. They can't yell unjustly, I say. Let's see if a solution can be found that reconciles things and does not blame both opposing military groups on both sides, so that we can move forward further. It is also very positive - I close with this - that the amendment on primary military associations was accepted and I think it gives a breath of democracy to the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr. Karayannides. Mr Kikilias, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief, just like I was in my prototype. Listen, are we going to abolish these provisions and amendments on various primary, secondary trade unions, which, while they went to court together, have TEMENS been vindicated and you now want to bring them back without knowing why? You should come and have a conversation about the union in the Armed Forces, which you brought back from the back door in 2015, to discuss all the parties, to find a way to shield the Ministry of National Defence and to have these structures, this framework and the recruits, so that there is never any problem in a ministry that is very special. It's not another part of the Greek public. It has as I explained, a vertical structure, and under special circumstances men and women of the Armed Forces work. That's obvious. You want to make a mess right now, from the back door to bring first-degree, second-degree, various ambitions and put them back into a boiling pot without proper and organized legislation on syndication, I repeat. In no case do we accept it and obviously on the first chance we will get things into one order and order. I repeat, for the minutes, the only legitimate secondary trade union union union is POMENS, based on the law and the Greek courts. We are now going to the bill itself, because I have listened to Mr Dritsa, whom I honor and respect for his experience and his path and Mr Karayannides as well, and also to the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, but I have heard Minister Apostolakis, who has given us the honour to come. Excuse me, four and a half years we expect you to bring in a bill highlighting and pulling out the interclimateness of the three Arms, brought by the Ministry of National Defence in the 21st century, which speaks of new technologies and how we will defend ourselves against the challenges, which we obviously have in a very difficult neighborhood, following the racing requests of the Staff, the Chiefs and the Minister, when it was GEOGIA, which came to the Greek Parliament last summer, in the Committee on Arms, to tell us that it wants a billion for equipment, because it is just as much as a mess in the Aegean. And you didn't have the courage, the boldness after a year to bring in a bill on armaments when the Civic Anti-Civilization, but also the other parties, I told you that yes, to discuss who these "competent" are, so that the bill is clear, to respect until the last euro of the Greek taxpayer in respect of the Armed Forces, nothing happens to any of the bad practices of the past. You will be required to provide the Committee with the status of urgency on a permanent basis and on the basis of exceptional needs, pieces of equipment. So, in the budgets where there is a problem with the Ministry, and you tell us, and all the military tell us that the resources for the three Weapons are not enough, you have done nothing. In the equipment, you didn't do anything. Operationally you didn't do anything. You have not justified in these four years what is the warning difference between those whom you ambassador toward whom we understand. And you come just before you leave the authority to move us and the finger, tell us more or less that the overwhelming majority of Greek society does not understand them well and you, with your ideals, realize that these are the legal support office to dismantle the vertical structure of the army and within one administration or within one unit to suck each other over and over and over the commander and go to the leader. For objections of conscience, the Minister himself admits that he does not trust the officers, the men and women of the Armed Forces and considers that he should be reduced in number and the teachers should be increased, so that the system can be objective, directly from the SYRIZA youth and your General Secretariat.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u179	I've explained it to you so many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u180	Right away, Minister. And of course, since I told you what is there and what the Staff and three Weapons say, you who have no mood and will fight, fight, try to be top, progress, reward him. Ten? Ten, it doesn't matter. "Line well" is from fifteen to nineteen at the ranking that has been held so far to promote officers after schools. You take it to ten. That is to say, those who exult, those who are not interested, those who do not step on, are rewarded and retrospectively rewarded. And as if that wasn't enough, five minutes before we're done, bring legislative improvements. How sloppy and how much sloppy there is while you told us when you felt that this bill had to come, to be absolutely ready before Easter holidays! Excuse me very much, the New Democracy will vote against at first, vote against articles and amendments and vote in favour of these articles which we feel are in favour of the Ministry and of the public good. After all, we have shown, as a Qualified Opposition, that we are standing up to circumstances and that we are voting as a opposition to all of these things which we consider to be national, right and patriotic and all other bills. And you proved, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, when you were opposition, that you did not have the soul and the courage to vote for not one bill, not one article, nor one paragraph. Impressive, to prove the truth. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Kikilia. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how we operate, thirty-four students and students and four teachers from the Elementary School of Pantorora Preveza and from the 8th Priveza Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Arvanitides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we are very pleased that you have withdrawn Rule 36, as we have proposed to the committees since the beginning of the procedure. With regard to Article 40 we continue our opposition, and we agree with the establishment of a National Military Authority of Reliability. But we say no in the context you finally chose to testify. We say yes to subjecting the authority under the Minister. We are in favour of the establishment and integration of all relevant issues through the mission, organisational structure, functionality, staffing, qualifications and duties of members of this authority, but through an independent draft law. We are against the creation of this principle through the drafting of a Presidential Decree in the absence of all the above-mentioned issues for the establishment of the principle and, as we have said, it would be well to withdraw the article and bring it as an independent bill. As far as the amendments are concerned - and that is why I have taken the floor - we are positive about the three amendments. In particular, with Amendment No 103, we think that you are right to regulate issues that had not been previously regulated and to extend it to a principle of equality. We agree with Amendments Nos 104 and 105. In Amendment No 216 we will vote 'at present' by protesting, because in our assessment there is no way of legislating. In Amendment No 107 we categorically vote 'no', because we consider that the regulation is contrary to Union law and, in particular, to Article 12 of Law 4412/2016, which incorporates Directives 2014/24 and 2014/25 for public procurement. This cannot be done, that is to say, by ministerial decision. With the signature, what do you want to do exactly? You want to create new soul warehouses in the mainland? Will you abolish those on the islands? We believe that this is simply communication games at the expense of refugees and social cohesion. With regard to Amendment No 2108, the development of ports with concessions is a permanent proposal of our own. But you are making inefficient port policy interventions. You have no overall policy. We are objectioning to the setting-up of the committees. That is why we shall vote'residents' in this amendment. As regards the amendments you are accepting, in Amendment No 2101 on mobilisation of experience in work on submarines and warships of the Hellenic Navy, we will vote 'yes'. As far as Parliament's amendment is concerned, we shall vote 'no' on the trade unions. With regard to Amendment No 2112 on the amendment of Article 8 of Law 1911/1990, we shall vote 'yes'. Finally, with regard to Amendment No 2117/108 which regulates matters for long-term non-organisational volunteers, we shall vote 'yes'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitides. Mrs Liana Canellelli, Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. They have succeeded once again through the courtyard and the procedural support to give a predicament of a locust cross. I have no other way to tell you. Days that are already, when you put the word "crowd" next to the cross, the hair rises, bones are raised. They may have risen yesterday, but the "earth" remains and may have risen out of respect for the concept of "nazis", even when it accompanies the concept of "three". On the amendments which are the main point, I would like to say that we will vote against the ministers. Among them, tell Mr. Pichiorla that he brought a bill! His amendment was a bill! It's a whole bill! That's all it takes! There is no time to discuss this. It's obvious! In the last few hours of a long debate a bill with articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 in an amendment is coming! And if anyone wanted to be well-meaning, there was no time or clarity to say that he would put his vote under the signature trial. I shall only refer to two amendments. Look, the amendment you bring about immigration does nothing else than actually entangle the immigrants here twice. And he's not just entangled them. Leaving this responsibility to the Minister for Migration Policy instead of the director of the Asylum Service, who you yourself legislated a year ago - we had then voted against this regulation - you are now coming and making arrangements on the regulation. How do you expect us to vote? Then, the way in which Article 1 in particular works and enables the Ministry of Transport to conclude programme contracts for the management of immigration and social inclusion in a number of bodies, in theory sounds very nice. Come now that this actually involves a contractual and contractual signature with NGOs and private entities, when you know that on the immigration issue, if we all agree that it is a major issue, if we all agree that it is national, if we all agree that it is humanitarian, if we all agree that it is what it is, the country should have the means, the way, the state and the possibility, to produce the work it wants with immigrants. But under the Schengen, Visegrad, closed borders and so on, will the authorities still be running down to find out who is behind every NGOs, who are non-governmental organisations financed by the states? That's the greatest deception ever. And among them there are two, three, five who are doing really good work. Go on to differentiate these substitutes, because this is how it manages the thing, recycles the money, becomes some contracts and moves forward and the victims are always immigrants. On the end of burial, the environmental issue, you have actually changed your name to something that you have already legislated. It doesn't change anything. Name change. You bring it here and what happens now? Now, the burden will be passed on to the municipalities and communities, because you cannot do this without leaving - as you should have done - to promote the factories. New SPP that's what you want to do. That's what you're doing. And in any case, can I tell you something? Invasion is burial, because at source he leaves the problem out. That is why we are going to vote against it. That's briefly. We shall vote 'yes' on all five amendments tabled and accepted. And we were delighted to see our amendment incorporated into the SYRIZA amendment on trade unionism, where we had set the number of two, two and more clearly. Because she has the clearest ten, it's excellent. I would like to close, so that we do not stay with the unpleasant impression, to say the following. We have a conversation about the Armed Forces every time it opens any issue, from conscientious objections to the length of military service and the range. Every time we get a debate on equipment, we remember that the Armed Forces are worthwhile, they are good, they are, they are, they are the other. Are there any objections to trade unions wondered at the level of officers and officers, are people not professionals, are there no trade unions, pensions, welfare issues, even questions of breast-feeding women who practice this occupation of the military? The peculiarity of this profession implies a mindfulness, which wants a homogeneity. So you cannot whenever we open the debate to find ways to separate the army from the people. Every time! That's what's walking in here, like the army isn't a people. It has been heard a moment ago - it is not important for me to make particular references and advertising - that the soldiers cannot, when they are paid and go to serve their duties, do business as another class does, to which I do not wish to refer. So what class do they belong to? What are they doing? Manual jobs do lower gods? What class will they do? Starting and getting the uniform to create order? We're screwed if we start accepting such conversations in here. I'm telling you, honestly. And we tolerate them from the point of view, because a way is being created. And that is what only the Greek people can do, to end up with this kind of nazi approach to reality, uniform, Armed Forces and a people, who must be a submissive leader, who must be immortal because he once was defeated. And the next time he shows up, it's certain he'll be re-approved and of course re-engaged in Reichstag the hammerhead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. In my report today I referred to the hypocrisy, which is often too often in this Chamber, and I will try to make it clear, saying this: The Union of Centres, Mr President, has never been against the militarism of the army. He objected in 2016 to the way the government tried to create those conditions, so that trade unions could enter the military. The way, the amendment - because we are talking about a new amendment at the moment - is not the right thing to do on such an important issue. On such a big subject, there should have been an entire piece of legislation, which would have emerged after consultation with these people, who would have been able to make an opinion and not amendments, just as they have been in the Greek Parliament at the last minute. In the summer of 2016, the way we had legislated, Minister, had created a great division in the strains of the Armed Forces. The government's legislative initiative was based on Law 4407. This law gave the right of six months of time to proceed with the associations which they wanted and to safeguard against what the law provided for. The only federation that did this was POMENS. The others, while having the right to do so, on the basis of the law that we had all voted in here, whether we had said 'no' or did not, Minister, have not taken advantage of the six-month deadline. That's the truth. So they went out of time and then the court disputes began. The way we legislated in this Chamber has brought legal disputes between the officials of the Armed Forces. All these court disputes have been left for a whole year and a half here, the politicians, the ones who are basically responsible. We've let the Armed Forces are being overrun on the channels, on the radios, on the sites. Today the dear Parliamentary spokesman of the SYRIZA comes to tell us that it is not an intervention, but is a possibility. Oh, what a hypocrisy! And I ask you: have we had the opportunity for a year and a half to legislate on what we are doing today and have we not done so? Did we let uniforms get humiliated? It doesn't matter whether they were right or wrong with each other, but did we let them be humiliated? We had that opportunity, and we didn't offer it to them before? Why did we do that? Also, another issue, Minister. Of course, in this amendment the Centrouns' Union will vote 'no' precisely for the way it came. He came at the last minute, blackmail. We don't like the way you legislate. Minister, I'm so glad you took off first grade. I am pleased, although I am not going to vote on it and tell you that you have done so well, that you have taken out of the amendment at first instance. So, at the same time, when this amendment comes, it states that we may have seventy associations. In any case, then, we can have seven secondary levels. What does seven secondarys mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u187	A big confederacy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u188	Thirty-five unparalleled, Mrs. Canelle. Thirty-five inconveniences! So at the same time that the Minister is offering thirty-five irrevocably, what does he say? In the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Members, I have not heard any of this House say 'Why are you not accepting this amendment, Minister?' In this particular amendment, therefore, it says this. SYRIZA Members submitted it: "In the place of their preference, they must serve, after reporting, strains under widows and so on." The Minister says: "I cannot accept it, because there will be too many people who will win the irreversible and will not stand the Army." Minister, I would suggest that you bring her in - and the Central Association will vote for it - on Tuesday that we have a bill, even on Monday. I'd suggest that. Look at a group of people you're taking out of. Let go of the widows, let go of the minors, let go of them all. He says at some point here: "The custody of a disabled child with a judicial decision has been designated as fostering parents of a disabled child". How many do we have, Mr. President? How many do you have, Minister, with this right here? How many people do you have that their love led them to take on a disabled child? This child could have been anywhere else and it's inside a house and they're supporting it and you're not accepting this request. How many are there? How many of the Armed Forces strains? Ten, twenty, thirty, fifty? How many? With the amendment we tabled on trade unionism, we offer thirty-five irreversible. Is love worth twenty more? Is it worth thirty? How much does this House appreciate it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. The Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr Panagiotis King has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor because for three days and in the committees I have heard the New Democracy say the same thing again. Same squirrel, like we're snatching some things. We are not listening to the other, why do we have a political opposition, but to get out of the contents and above all out of scientific perceptions? He said Mr. Kikilis that we have no confidence in the officers of the Armed Forces. Obviously that's not true. You obviously don't trust in any science, any scientists, Mr. Kikilia, because that's what this is about. We're not all doing it, Mr. Kikilia. It is also unlike what you said at the outset, namely how much things have evolved, so we need to see other issues in the Armed Forces. I must of course tell you - on all the things you have said about the development of technology - that it is obvious that this is all happening. You say that to say it. That's what you're doing. It's all done. Already in the Armed Forces - I cannot say it publicly - there are too many things going on. We have great scientific potential, they also have second degrees, and these people, with their specialty, offer excellent services to the Armed Forces, and for that reason we have managed, by using this human potential, which, unfortunately, the previous governments have not exploited - and I know that - to eliminate any problems we have all encountered because of the crisis. I have heard once again an insistence on the issue of objections and the right to be granted to these citizens. We've explained it. He's obviously not a lute. Obviously, we don't give the right to something else. It is a right, which is based on all constitutional rules and international law in that direction. The number is too small. It's not big. Was it punishing? Mr. Karayannides told you so. What did you go to say? For the three months. Why is it punishing? You know, we are not followers of punishment, we are not followers of repression. We're followers of understanding. This is how a democracy works in all fields, if I remember the example brought by Mr Dritsa because he refused to serve, in any case, in this way the Greek Armed Forces when he went to prison in the military prisons. You understand that in a modern state people cannot be treated in this way. Also, in the Armed Forces and other countries, and where they have problems, this right is fully granted. Mr. Karayannides, I will agree with you and we can see it. Let me look at it in the next few days - it is a omission perhaps of mine and I have the courage to say it - if and if they fall into a disciplinary misconduct, they will have the same treatment as all those who serve the term, whether alternative or normal. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is not a bill that we did not consider, nor a bill - as you said - with which we want to serve something. I explained that in the committee's discussions too. They were time-consuming problems. In fact, many of these had also been discussed in earlier times and with earlier governments. I mentioned it in my initial speech, but no one had the courage to say it. Nor can it be said that we want to do these things for personnel, for gunmen, for other issues that concern and create a better field within the Armed Forces and combine it with the issues of armaments or any discussion about the structure of the Armed Forces. As far as equipment is concerned, discussions have been held. There have been discussions about the needs we have, and we will obviously still have the conversation. I have to tell you that we are now making the best use of them. Mr Kikilia, I can also inform you of these issues even better than the Minister, since they relate to national security and of course any other Parliamentary representative designates his party and wants to be informed. As far as the structure is concerned, I have explained it. They need to change a lot of things. You know, we received as government a mess in the rest of the public sector and a mess in the insurance funds. The problem is not just the economic situation, bankruptcy. It is the logic that existed and was very specific, a customer service logic or in these ways of hiding many things and shaping this system of interoperability. What happened and what happens to the Armed Forces? There was a multitude. He also had the element of service of political interests, but most importantly it was total clandestineness. There was sloppyness and not here. We are trying to solve a few problems until we have a serious debate and how to structure the entire Armed Forces. I am glad that all staff have concrete proposals. It does not matter whether or not I disagree, but they have a very specific proposal. In fact, I agree with many issues that the New Democracy will not agree on. I am sure you will disagree about how we need to shape a lot of things in the Armed Forces from now on, as we have done with the structure. They don't need a show on these issues either. I think that has now been understood by many and many. Many people see us because the debate is public. Of course, I understand that as long as it's an obsession without understanding the real content, the real needs and what we explain here, it becomes a parrot all the time. We understand and understand the whole world that it is not only because of the ideological obsession you have but mainly because you do not want to understand. You have taken a very conservative turn, a big turn to the right and far right perceptions into the content of thinking. It also happens in Europe. So it has a logic of Verber and a logic that doesn't make it easier, it doesn't help. It gives rights to the snake egg to come out of the hole. Let me read, to record, this piece of legislation: In Amendment No 2117 paragraph 1 amends paragraph 1 of Article 5 of the bill. Paragraph 2 amends paragraph 7 of Article 5 of the draft law. Paragraph 3 amends paragraph 11 of Article 5 of the draft law and paragraph 4 amends paragraph 12 of the draft law. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: 'Conservation of Personnel of the Armed Forces, the Military Army, the Military Justice and other provisions' is adjourned, and their vote will be taken separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of fifty articles, of ten amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u192	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u193	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u194	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Provisions for the care of personnel of Armed Forces, Military Municipalities, Military Justice and Other Provisions’ was accepted by a majority in only one debate on the principle, articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u196	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-18-S1-commons.u197	With the consent of the House at noon 21.15', the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 19 April 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: 1) discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on the request for the waiver of immunity of Members of Parliament Aristide Fokas, Marios Salmas and Andrew Lovertou and 2) parliamentary scrutiny: (a) Special Report by the President of the meeting on the Day of Philhellenic and International Solidarity; and (b) debate on the number 10/8/29-3-2019 of the Independent Members of Parliament on the subject of "Competitive procedure for the promotion of consular support services for Consulary Secretariats", in accordance with the special agenda and the agenda that have been distributed.
