ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: ‘Consolidation of the Ministry of Interior, provisions on digital governance and other urgent matters’. Before giving the floor to my colleague, Mr Davaki, I would like to ask you all this. We are in the middle of the list and may also speak with some Heads of State or Parliamentary Representatives. Yesterday, some time had been agreed for the vote to begin. But this is a little difficult to achieve. I say this now because there are new colleagues on the list who want to speak for the first time and we should not deny them that right. I would ask that we all make it easier in this case. I say this because, yes, the voting time has been said before at around 15:30 to 16: 00, but it is a bit difficult to achieve. In any case, if we all make a good effort, and above all those who have the reason to keep about time, we can do so. At 14: 00, about, we will reassess voting time to see how it goes from there. As I said, it is now my colleague, Davakis Athanasios, a member of the Laconia Parliament of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to this period - these days, that is, the government with legislative initiatives introduces bills into Parliament and we are working on them - opposition, I notice something that is unprecedented. What do you mean? We are indebted to government and to government MPs because we are implementing our programme. What has come in this Chamber, this web of legislative initiatives in the last few years since the elections, that is, after the government just took a vote of confidence, is an authentic printing of the New Democracy programme. And it will be good from now on what we are talking about in the run-up to post-election. We are gaining credibility over Greek citizens. We're gaining effectiveness. We win in time because, badly lies, government orders are not safe. There is no complete and locked one - I would say - four years with what this means to imprint, to efficiency and to specific and measurable results that the Greek people are seeking from us. These provisions, which this bill introduces, are provisions that both Greek society and Greek university and local government really needed. Local government was brutally affected by the latest law on it, by the "Kalikarat" voted by the opposition. We had said that once we became a government, if the elections of the self-government were to take place, we would change that law. This has not happened, but, in any case, this legislative initiative gives an appropriate solution to the huge issue, in the pillar, of democracy, which is local government. Because we do not see each mayor as a balancer who will try to create alliances, trades, bitterness and various other things that exist in human collectives, as is the area of local government. We want him as a man who, with determination, courage and courage, will also implement the programme which he has put into the citizens' judgment on local affairs. And that makes the point of the bill on local government. The issues relating to the digital transformation of the public are a huge matter, which was first introduced so courageously at the National Representation. I believe that its implementation will have a good prospect in this respect. Badly lies, we must have the courage, courage, know-how - as a political staff and as a government - what we are voting on here of course also in practice. Because it is important to bring together various bills on the problems that exist, but these bills must be implemented in practice. I come to the issue of asylum. Asylum is a huge case. The final analysis was carried out by our rapporteur, Mr Tsiaras, from the 'a' and the 'accompany' verb. There is no point in saying at the moment that there is calm, efficiency, education, as there is in all the universities. No university in the world has any asylum provisions. There was the period of the dictatorial regime. There was the imprint of the Tsatsos-Evrygenis Commission, which made the first points of the Asylum Act and Law No.1268/1982, eight years after the dictatorship, which brought about this situation, which brought the Greek university to the point at which it is present. Can one of us say if the Greek university is in danger from the police or the violating outbreaks, from the criminologists, I would say, which are today incubated and incubated in their homes? On asylum provisions, the Minister also raised the question of the prospect of the abolition of the Patras Law School. I'll say it from this step. There is a great injustice arising from the Gabroglou law, which was called a monarchy by the opposition at the time and today's government, with lips to both the Prime Minister and the Minister, then rapporteur. It's the transfer of the Nursing School from Sparta to Tripoli. I have said so to the committee, and a local Member is not talking to you today about a local issue. It is a brutally unfair subject, it is a case that has hit emotion, perspective and all that compose a social peace, if you like, in the Laconia Prefecture, and including evolution that the Niarchus Foundation has publicly stated that it will build a hospital in Sparta. You realize that we have a nursing device, but we take it because, in general interests - and I say it from this step for the second time - Sparta fell away and created this situation. So we take her to Tripoli, when there is a private building in Laconia, in Sparta, where there will be no costs beyond the functionalities and all that constitute an excellent university community. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President, and thank you for tolerance. I believe this - and I will close with this - as Mr Economou said last night, that we will also be judged by the application of the Asylum Act - not to become like the anti-smoking law, which has been a joke so far - and also our efficiency and democratic efficiency in implementing this law, and in the issues that have to do with the Asylum Act at all times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much Mr Davaki. Mr. Georgios Psychogios from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a multi-brand plan from which one needs to choose where to place himself, because there are so many issues that we should concentrate, so that we can also have a result, both in amending and, possibly, in withdrawing provisions, according to SYRIZA's perceptions. I want to start with just proportional. Minister, it is clear that with this bill you are discerning and clearly distorting the fresh, fresh, popular order. In fact, you are also cancelling efforts or moves of consensus that have taken place over the past period, with a composition of opinions and programmes in local communities, for the proper functioning of the municipalities and municipal councils. That's how you underestimate local communities and you're afraid. What are you afraid of? In fact, the analogue and fair representation of the people's will. We are returning to a personal-centered model, such as a Prime Minister model that you voted on in the past few days, with the problem of allegedly practicability, which we have not seen even evolve, and of course with the powers and powers of the mayor's resignation through the economic committee, which have to deal with important issues, such as the annual recruitment, the possibility of resigning from legal means - which mayors and workers themselves had requested the previous period to operate harmoniously - with the possibility of awarding projects regardless of the budget and, of course, the possibility of decommissioning debts of over EUR 150,000 without a bill. A very serious issue is also a problem with communities. There, indeed, you come and dismantle the recently set-up call and do not allow the local councils to choose the one who will represent them. This was welcomed by the local community and you are now coming to say that the first combination should be imposed as president, and even for small projects that had the opportunity to ask the municipal council, now only the possibility is given. I'm on my way to Article 98 of the Ministry of Justice. This is a provision that has brought together the reaction of the lawyers of the country, but also bodies such as the Greek Union for Human Rights and others, and the work of the Prefecture Committee, which has done an excellent job for over ten years to bring the codes to Parliament. In accordance with this provision, the provisions of the new Criminal Code, which provide for the provision of social benefits, either as a primary penalty or as a way of transforming the custodial penalty, without a serious explanatory statement and without consultation, are suspended. An institution with positive application since 1991 has been suspended as a whole. We are perhaps the only European country that has no alternative but to build the prison sentence, with a rigid punishment, with the reintroduction of the financial takeover of the sentence, which has purely class characteristics - because we know very well who can buy the sentences - and while the Criminal Code had transitional provisions for the 30-6-2019 for whatever offences had been committed before. Obviously your strategy is too many prisons - Type III prisons - punishment instead of prison and reintegration. We therefore call on you to withdraw this provision that turns us back years and takes us out of European regularity. At least we'll return in transition to the validity of the old Criminal Code. As far as asylum is concerned, this is a symbol of struggle, a conquest that is the residence of academic freedom, as George - Alexander Magakis said. The everyday life of universities and reality is different from the one you present, regardless of whether there are phenomena, but they are minority. The image is the performance of the Greek universities, the research that we upgraded in the previous period, which was also hailed by international scientific journals. Also, the fact is that Greek society trusts our universities and that a very good job is being done. You almost restore the Diamantopoulou law, which has been applied since 2011, not only has solved the problem, but has also aggravated it. Because in Mr. Gabroglou's order there is an unequivocal persecution, as you know, both of the felonies and of the crimes against life. And, of course, the dean can intervene, as is done in many cases, according to what the dean of the University of Patras said. But what's going on? The root of the problem is about upgrading and supporting the public university. So there we are proposing - and to some extent we have implemented - the funding of institutions to support services, to strengthen student care and to upgrade university logistics infrastructure and the two-year programmes, which link vocational education to universities and which provide a way out for PES students. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You're the one who's coming to abolish them. You want and seek to privatise universities from the inside, but with their despair and defamation, which you are constantly trying at international level, and of course, contrary to what we had to do with increasing budgets for all these needs. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that this is a truly deeply conservative bill that has been turning us back for many years, with strong elements of far-right and neoliberalism that we are, unfortunately, identified by governments like Hungary, Poland, who are more and more involved in the rule of law. But you should know that the Greek society has moved forward and adopted very important progressive areas, which have also been made over the previous government. That is why it will repudiate this attack on the rights of conquests and the freedoms that you have unleashed to keep the people a shareholder and framed against these developments. We are voting against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Psychoyo. I call to Stepma Mr. Athanasios Papadopoulos from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u6	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The government claims to have a fresh people's mandate to change everything. He obviously has the right to implement the programme, with which he won the recent elections. In the debate on the tax bill, Mr. Mitsotakis said he could do as well, as long as it's good. It was a good thing in the case of HISPIA. It is not a good thing when constitutional regulations or legislation are violated, as in the case of the appointment of the commander of the NSA. Obviously, we also have the right to make substantiated and harsh criticisms of government acts and intentions from the point of view of our own programme. I have not heard any of you return to the classroom, Maki Voridis, for the infamous "you are not entitled to speak." No one reminded him that these cries remind them of Kutsogi, when he accompanied them and with extreme polarization of the powers of light against the forces of darkness? Fortunately for you he has not been tempted to analyse his ideological views of academic freedoms. Then we would see whether antisystemic ideas, revolutionary, communist, Utopian, anarchists, ideas for overthrowing the capitalist system and for moving towards a society of free and equal producers, are legitimate, covered by academic asylum, are illegal and must be banned when you abolish asylum. All of you, however, call for violations, violence, criminal offences committed in certain university schools, paramilitary, drug trafficking, the construction of molotovs, hooliganism, rape, to return them to asylum and public university functions. What does all this have to do with the freedom of academic knowledge, expression, teaching, university research, the movement of ideas, even anarchists, and not goods or explosives? You're saying the dean authorities can't stop illegality. The Republican Council is powerless to call the police in time. But if the university community does not do this with a greater institutional flexibility, who can do so better, the passing citizen? Why would the abolition of university asylum prevent illegality, criminal offences, which are done in other places anyway? In hospitals, who protects doctors, nurses from violence? Do police officers settle, the new body that you organised? The Republican authorities, the congresses, the university community and the police must exercise their powers to combat illegality in university spaces without abolishing university asylum. Government governance is the other false argument to cancel a recent promotional reform in self-government for a mere analogy as a fair electoral system before even being tested in the self-government bodies, for selective alteration of unwanted results for the New Democracy in the recent self-government elections. Partnerships, partnerships, osmosis, consensus in self-government arise from mature programming shocks and not from technical strengthening of the hegemony of mayor or regional authorities. They do not hesitate to applaud the provisions for better access to cancer patients, patients with multiple sclerosis, as well as other serious rare diseases in their expensive medicines, even with distribution at home. Conversely, the intervention of the Government in the Competition Committee is subtle, hypocritical, unconstitutional, outrageous and, as it is in the way of dealing with difficult issues, it also violates European law and the opinion of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. I conclude by saying that you are obsessed with characterising the scandal of unfair competition and the dismantling of consciences from NOVARTIS. The Prosecutor against Corruption proves that it is horrificly exercising its difficult tasks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It gives justice, as it did in the case of the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, and it looks in detail at what we have delivered as a conclusion to the Scandal Examination Committee on Health, as well as the rich material provided by Mrs Papaspyrou, the General Public Administration Inspectorate, but also the American Justice, the FBI, with its investigative material. So, stop talking about practicing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr Papadopoulos, for keeping time and I invite Mrs Brysidou from New Democracy to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour and responsibility that I am here today, in Parliament, and I represent my fellow citizens of the Kosani prefecture, together with other colleagues. Since this is the first time I have been elected a Member, I would like to express my thanks, first of all, to the Prime Minister for his confidence and the honour he has made me included in the New Republic of Kozani and secondly to my compatriots, who, with their support today, are among you. I would like to begin by referring to the very important and wealthy work that has just been done within a month of the government following the elections. And the project is important, because the problems of Greek society have not exactly been overshadowed and, as a matter of priority, it started with what is most important. Citizens are sending out the message that they need financial relief. This is why it benefited all Greek households by reducing HISPIA. Many of our fellow entrepreneurs, professionals, ordinary citizens with public debts are at a dead end. The law on the hundreds of twenty instalments marks care in this category of citizens, and also the start of an effort to help in this direction. The draft law on the final state states that we are determined for operation and results, and we are starting with a bill on the entire public sector, public sector sectors. We are, however, starting with the government and the ministries. And, of course, the bill of self-government comes directly, because in early September selfgovernment will have to start its operation. So it was urgent. There are also important issues relating to education, starting with the lifting of asylum at universities and the issue of health, where we catch the most important part of the citizens, the people suffering from chronic diseases and facilitating the supply of medicines, which in the past has been particularly afflicted them. I will begin with the issue of self-government, since I have had the honour of serving it for too many years. And I would like to say that mayors and municipal authorities cannot function in a mere proportional manner, because a mayor does not only implement his vision and develop the development programme and develops his place and produces projects, but he is next to the citizen, his daily life, has to solve problems which fall within his responsibilities. And if it does not, it has not only moral responsibilities towards the citizens who chose it, but also against the law, which is too hard on municipal authorities and mayors. And I didn't see after "CLOSHEN" there were any laws saying that now the mayor is not responsible for an accident in a playground, if a fire occurs due to negligence or if there is garbage and dangers in public health because their management was not properly organized, especially during summer months in tourist areas, because he may not have the majority. But the laws remain the same. There is, however, the 'CLITHENIS' which calls for a wider consensus and alliance. Over the last few days we have heard that the simple analogue and consensus of the factions has been a very good step. But we didn't see it. Even articles which are proved to be too important for the benefit of our society have not been seen by the opposition. So how do we expect this to be done in government? And, of course, with regard to the unconstitutionality of the law, I would like to tell you that "KLITHENIS", for example, the president of the local council, foresaw that he would be the head of a combination without a cross. And a few months before the elections, few, there was an amendment in which he also said he would enter the crusade. The presidents and their combinations were not prepared at that time. However, self-government welcomed this effort, because it clarified some things and was in the interest of the process. Also, by amendment, it came to the conclusion that the first crosses in the first combination are going out, as long as they get 50% plus 1. And now, of course, we are voting under 50% plus one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There are, in fact, clarifications for the benefit of the operation of self-government, and if there were political purposes, the New Democracy Government would have to bring in these amendments six months later, which would make it easier. But it brought them before, because I think it should help self-government. Otherwise, six months later, you should know that they would be displeased citizens and self-government and the political cost to SYRIZA would be huge. My time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. I invite Mrs Maria - Alexandra Head from New Democracy to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, it is the first speech as a Member of the Ioannina Parliament and I feel the need to thank both the Prime Minister who gave me the opportunity by including me in the New Democracy ballots and my Yannian fellow citizens for the honour that they have made me represent them in the Greek Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek citizens on 7 July gave a strong mandate to the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis to implement all of this on which we made an election. A month after the national elections the Greek people are pleased to see the impressive correlation of announcements and measures that follow the pulse of society. It notes that our election commitments are taking place directly and effectively, forming a modern state with social justice for the benefit of many. The new government has already demonstrated that it is ready for hard work with program, morality and morality so that Greece returns rapidly to growth. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been accused by SYRIZA of a secret election agenda. No secret agendas. A clear programme adopted by the Greek people in perimeter and self-powered power. What we have said in an election campaign is being done on the basis of social welfare for the benefit of all citizens, and this may mean that it is a disgrace to the Civic Anti-Civilisation. Today's interministerial bill shows that New Democracy is here once again to correct past distortions and strengthen public goods, such as education and health. Public education is a social asset that must be protected and universities must finally become academic free. I am a graduate of the Greek university and I believe that asylum is downgrading academic education, maintaining a system of lawlessness that is not related to the free movement of ideas, but to the free movement of goods, violence and vandalism, serving other foreign-university interests. Ladies and gentlemen, violence does not fit the Greek universities. Trabucism, threats, vandalism are not a sign of freedom. We mustn't have our universities to be a clear vine. It is not possible in Greece today to build teachers at their offices. But we are here to protect and develop public universities and the abolition of university asylum will finally put an end to their decline. We want university institutions that both educational staff and students will feel safe. We want academic spaces that will promote research, innovation and student development. The abolition of asylum does not only ensure security. It also promotes free thinking. And free thought and ideas cannot be enclosed in asylums. Those who are concerned about his apparent loss are rather shaking back the institution of universities in society. The free citizen does not need asylum and it is time for our universities to bloom again. It is time for them to commit themselves without distractions and obstacles to their educational and research missions. It is time to get rid of bad texts. We want universities extrovert, part of society. Of course, society is not about SYRIZA. It was never about him. His political analgesia to the problems of the Greek people has shown that it does not disguise his concerns and problems. His social sensitivities are limited only to abstract concepts and electoral allowances. The New Democracy, however, is here in deeds, promoting social care in another sensitive area, that of health. Today's bill ensures that high-cost medicines are received from the nearest private cancer pharmacy instead of waiting in the tails of the EEAS shame. And, thank God, we have our health, but as a doctor I am first aware of the relief that this measure gives to many of our fellow citizens. The new government ensures that patients with effective and immediate solutions. It forms a new health and social care framework. And, of course, there is a lot to be done in the health field as a whole, but also in Ioannina, my region. For example, we must quickly deal with the substitution of hospitals and health centres with the recruitment of nurses and doctors in order to meet the needs of people in poor areas, such as Epirus and Ioannina. The solutions of the new government are practical and meet the needs of patients, modernising the health system: modern, efficient and anthropocentric, based on man and especially on the patient. The New Democracy proves that social sensitivity is not a doctrine that SYRIZA and the Left traditionally attempt to steal. It is a supreme value that is properly served when there is a plan, a strategy and determined people to serve it. The Greek people do not want any more theories but acts. Education and health are priority areas for the new government and the New Democracy. We are envisioning a modern Greece and our vision has already begun to take flesh and bone from the early days of rule. I support with all my powers this vision of a modern Greece that will give my generation and all the citizens back the hope of a normal everyday life, with growth and prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Head. And I'd like to congratulate her for keeping her exactly in five minutes. I'd like to invite Mr. Ahmet Ilhan from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would first like to wish the government, its work and all the Members of this House a success. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer here to the bill, specifically to the articles on digital reform, as the Minister called. I would just like to remind the House that the PASOK government in 2010 with 2011 was the one that brought an unprecedented but also substantial section - progress in dealing with bureaucracy, corruption and the lack of democracy, then creating innovative services, such as: Firstly, 'GENERAL', as we all remember, with a huge financial impact, but even greater transparency and democracy, underpinning the concept of good administration. Secondly, e-prescription with the benefit of more than EUR 3 billion in the state budget. Thirdly, 'OpenGov', our admission to the OGP, Open Government Partnership, as a full member. Fourthly, the transnational agreement with Estonia which everyone invokes, but no one has yet implemented it. Fifthly, the agreements with the OECD on the elimination of administrative burdens, but also the functioning of competition that has fortunately gone ahead, but not with the speed and, of course, with the depth required by the circumstances. Sixthly, spatial data, town planning, the national public procurement system. Seventh, too, we designed and financed horizontal projects on human resources, centralised management of economic resources and the tricanal management system 'Citizen Service'. All this was done in 2010 to 2011. The bases were set then by the PASOK government. As a result of all this coordinated work, we were to reach a high growth rate among the highest in Europe, according to the study by Tafts University in 2014 with 2012 data, the PASOK government. And we ended up in the same study again in 2017, i.e. the University of Tafts, with 2015 data and the government of Samara, to be together with Egypt and Pakistan. It is a good thing, Minister, that today we are making an effort to continue the efforts that the Samara and Tsipras government have not made. But, on the other hand, we are quite concerned about a number of arrhythmias that, if not immediately identified, will once again be devastating for the country. First of all, it is reasonable to fear that, instead of simplifying procedures, we may eventually end up digitising bureaucracy in Greece or creating a new digital bureaucracy. Only ninety-nine sections, sixteen addresses, five directorates-general and two general secretariats are counted by this bill. Do all these administrative units need, Minister? Are they all management together as a system? Or are we going to move towards a heavy and costly system that will ultimately bring nothing practical to people's lives? I am going beyond the minimum consultation and processing time given to us to say that here we are confronted with an experiment on at least Greek data. Another important issue now is that the Ministry of Digital Governance does not restrict its competence in terms of infrastructure and digital policy, as we expected. But what's he doing? It already extracts large digital services by Ministerial Decree 81 of the public indiscriminately. In other words, they come under the same roof of the Ministry of Services on the basis of their digitisation and not on the basis of their administrative, social missions. Social security, for example, is established with the Space Agency. This work-cohabitation now, because it is, in fact, a task combination of services, even if it works, certainly brings their administrative mission to a second degree. Really, why doesn't the Ministries of Education and Justice appear to be involved in the digital transformation book? How fast will transformation be? The proposed digital reform is doubtful whether it is in a direction that really serves the needs of the citizens or whether it is simply a practice of centralising power, as the government has done so far, since there are no skills and guarantees of good functioning for the powers that are concentrated. Obviously, such a project for the digital treatment of dozens of public services and bodies cannot be considered entirely at the moment, except in its actual dimension. We, however, are concerned that, instead of simplifying procedures, we eventually end up digitising bureaucracy in Greece or creating a new digital bureaucracy. Finally, Minister, I would like to say something about an amendment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me one more minute. An amendment was tabled by the Ministry of Rural Development - in my opinion correct - which says they can take seasonal staff for a year - up to fifty people - for emergencies, such as the various diseases related to public health. You know that Halkidiki and the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace were declared in an emergency because of the flooding and particular situations. It cannot be added to the amendment that thirty, fifty set-aside farmers - those who need - should be recruited with delays in compensation and compensation specialisations. The farmer comes after nine to ten months in the field where he finds nothing, so compensation is not fair and reasonable. That is why I propose - and we propose - that the possibility should also be provided for a certain period of time, of course, in line with the budgetary needs of the ELGA, so that the measurements and assessments of applications for compensation for plant and animal production can be regular. These areas have been declared emergency areas. There is a priority, Minister, for this possibility to be given to the service of ELGA, so that assessments are quick and fair. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u13	I call to Stepma Mrs. Vetta Calliope from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the meetings, as well as the vigilant discussion of these days on the relevant committees, show that the current government has fully embraced the agenda in some parts of the extreme neoliberal and authoritarian right around the world. The Government of New Democracy, with the bill of the Ministry of Home Affairs, introduces provisions that conflict with a number of key pillars that ensured self-interest, discrimination, control of powers and autonomy of the independent authorities. I am urging some examples. It repeals provisions that defended the autonomy of the Republican Councils and universities. It creates retrospective hindrances for appointment to the Competition Committee because it is not a wish for the people who are part of it. An investigation into the cases he manages might help some sort of answering questions. The Minister of Culture is given the opportunity to cease without justification all the members of the Board of Directors of the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund, which is due to bad developments for a fund, which we note has doubled its revenues from 2014 to 2019. You also wish to call on the Ministerial Decisions of the previous government to cover positions of directors and artistic directors through notices at the National Theatre, at the Greek Festival, at the Museum of Contemporary Art, at the State Conservatory of Thessaloniki, in order to restore appointments with party and customer criteria, without transparency and merit. For asylum, what you are amending with today's provision is the possibility for the police to intervene in universities, when crimes of a demagogic nature are committed, which, until now, should have been approved by the Republican Council. Indeed, in some universities the situation is not the best, which should mobilise the academic community to defend asylum. But what is the solution promoted by the government to tackle infractionality in two or three central schools with issues? Police intervention, repression and authoritarianism, without prior consultation with the Presidents' meeting, without consulting the student associations, without hearing the views of the administrative officers, without even allowing the comments on this particular article to be made public in consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u15	It was the consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u16	Very few days, Minister. Very little, after protests. And, finally, heeding the agony of hundreds of universities who raise reasonable objections to the feasibility of the measure. Public universities for you are inherent in lawlessness and infraction. In closing my report on asylum, I would like to mention this. The concept of asylum has a long history, as it starts from antiquity and passes through cultures, peoples, religions and societies, many times heirs among themselves, but they respected it and protected it. Do not degrade the concept by stripping it from its time-consuming gravity. Sometimes we have to respect the historical path of terms and words. By changing the subject, however, in the same context, I would like to comment on the issue that has arisen with the PES graduates. The relevant Minister, as he has announced, recommends the suspension of the two-year university vocational education courses. Basically, with this provision, you will be deprived of hundreds of students studying in vocational schools the possibility of obtaining professional rights through the university path. Despite the commitment of the funds, despite the consent of the universities, despite the universal acceptance of the measure by the students and teachers of high school, you are going to abolish the curriculum. This is a measure, I would say, of a purely class character. It seems that you have a great deal of enthusiasm against technical and vocational education, taking into account the fact that the last time you governed had you abolished specialities, effectively excluding two and a half thousand teachers. Perhaps, eventually, the refrigerant from the Dove should not even study this specialty for you. This is your concern for education, when the SYRIZA administration, I remind you, had implemented the acceptance of all applications at school stations for the following year, the two-year pre-school education, the full-time in all primary schools, the strengthening of the PES, the new structure in High School III, the support and strengthening of special education, the new architecture in universities, the recruitment of teachers and so many other issues that upgraded public education, for the benefit of the vast majority of their pupils and families. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just one comment, if I may, Mr President, on the simple analogue. You are destroying in advance that there will be insolence, administrative distortion and a lack of consensus, without any confidence in the maturity of the elected municipal and regional councils. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think that municipal and regional advisors cannot agree to the drawing up of certain consensual lines for the performance of their duties, then I fear that you are greatly underestimating the competence and integrity of the Greek citizens, who have stressed that they have come to vote, by ratifying the current electoral system. Ladies and gentlemen, one month immediately after the elections, you are calling on us to vote on a 'bug' bill, which is really urgent for the government, because it wants to clarify its ideological and political position by applying a series of anti-democratic, neoliberal and authoritarian measures. We won't consent to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u17	I call to Stepma Mr. Haritsis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. As time is extremely limited, I will certainly not be able to refer to all the provisions of this bill. On some issues, of course, the debate is not ending today, as it is, for example, on asylum. We will have the opportunity from September to discuss this issue again in the middle of the year. I would, however, like in this position to concentrate mainly on local government issues. It is no accident, in my opinion, that today's debate is only a few days after the vote on another bill you brought a few days ago, the draft law on the final state. I am linking these two bills, because in my opinion it unites them the same thread of the logic of over-concentration of powers and powers, and the very idea of weakening structures, consultation and accountability mechanisms. This is exactly what you are going to do to the state, which is exactly what you are trying to do in the area of self-government, just a few weeks after the self-government elections where the electorate came to mind, bearing in mind a specific institutional framework for the Ottomans, as shaped by "KLITHEN" and while the compositions of the new municipal local and regional councils, which are expected to be set up in the next few days, are known. I would remind you that KLITHENIS was a comprehensive reform of the institutional framework of self-government with a view to deepening democracy, strengthening public participation, improving the economic and development functioning of the TAs and modernising the conditions of self-government supervision. It was the subject of a committee set up in the Ministry of Interior with the participation of officials of the Ministry, representatives of the local authorities, representatives of employees in self-government, representatives of parties and scientists of unknown prestige, which, after an unprecedented consultation lasted more than two years, resulted in this institutional framework. What are you doing on your part? Within just a few days, after the election of the new government, and without even asking for the contributions of the experienced officials of the Ministry of the Interior, you are making a series of arrangements, and only with the contribution - if you wish - after a rough discussion of the members of the management of the CDE, which is controlled by you and you are not currently proposing an integrated plan for the establishment of the institutional framework of local government, but a rough, fragmented counter-reformation. Faithful to the obsolete administrative model of the OTAs, the New Democracy Government is rushing to serve the self-government establishment itself, in the most undemocratic way overthrowing the relationships of the council that was elected a few weeks ago. With a mixture of malicious interventions in the provisions of the 'CLITHEN' and with the allegedly problems, it causes the new institutional framework for simple analogues, a framework which, of course, you did not allow to apply in practice to see whether or not problems are created and then come to cure them. Depress the boards to the single-faced executive bodies, i.e. the mayor and the district commander. I would remind you here that the single-faced bodies, the mayor and the district mayor, are implementing the decisions of the boards and exercise only the powers expressly conferred on them by the law which under no circumstances can be called into question or called into question the decisive role of the councils. This would, moreover, be contrary to the democratic principle but also to the principles of the European Charter of Local autonomy, which stipulates in Article 3 that the concept of local autonomy is defined as the right and actual capacity of local authorities to regulate and manage a significant part of public affairs, and that right is exercised by councils or assemblies composed of members elected by free secret, equal, direct and universal suffrage. This defines the autonomy of the decisive bodies of the ATTs, namely the Councils at European level, and that autonomy is now coming and you are being circumvented by these provisions. Very quickly, Mr President, if I have time to refer to some of these provisions which are very critical. Article 1 infringes the principle of equality of vote by creating conditions for the complicity of orders cut and sewn to the measures of the regional or mayor. It is incomprehensible that what is described in Article 1 cannot be revoked, i.e. that if the mayor or the regulator or the constituted majority fails to comply with the agreement by which this partnership was created and the association with the mayor's or district mayor's party was chosen on the basis of a programme agreement, the other parties cannot withdraw the partnership and reconstitute the party with which they were exposed to the electorate. After all, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament also tells you this in its report on this draft law on page 9, where it speaks of Article 1, saying that it is a question of concern if it is consistent with the principle of the widest possible popular representation. Article 2: The provision that in any case the majority of the committees will have the advisors to the mayor's party, the district mayor, annul the basic principle that the committees are elected by the decision-making body of the Ottawa, i.e. by the councils. It shall make committees subject to the single-faced executive authority of the mayor or regional authority. Again, I call on the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which on page 12 in its report on this bill speaks of reflection, which is created as to whether the proposed way of setting up and electing the Economic Commission of the municipalities and regions, as well as the Committee of the Quality of Life of the Municipalities, ensures adequate democratic legitimacy in these collective bodies, that is what the Scientific Committee of the Parliament says. Finally, I would like to say to Rule 5, and here I would like to say a word more about the local councils, which for the first time have been elected by separate ballots and therefore have a heavy democratic legitimacy. You are essentially demanding the definition and not the election of local council chairmen and you are abolishing the most decisive - that is, the decisive powers of these communities which have been conquered by the 'CLISTENH' - that is, the ability of local councils to decide on the allocation to actions and projects of the percentage of the investment core resources, the former SALWs, which account for the communities. This is now being destroyed. That is to say, one of the very basic provisions of the 'CLISTENH' on intra-democratic decentralisation, which was very critical. Honestly, I want to see how you are going to all of Greece, villages and towns and explain to your own self-government - which belong to your own party, who, after many years of community level, at the level of local councils, acquire responsibilities that had been lost in the previous period - this return to the past of the mayor's mono-faced authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u19	Close, Mr. Haritsi, last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u20	And I close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that KLISTHENIS was a comprehensive reform for the area of self-government, which, beyond all else, managed to strengthen popular participation, managed to open up self-government, to give voice to forces which were excluded in all previous years, initiatives on local issues, thematic collectives, citizens' movements. For the first time they have found the opportunity to participate in municipal councils, to express the citizens and thus to better reflect the popular will. We have tried to create the conditions for a more pluralistic and representative system, a system which, in fact, will reflect the will of local communities. This target remains alive. We will also serve this goal in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u21	Shut up, Mr. Haritsi. You're far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u22	Unfortunately, by the provisions you bring to this bill, you are reintroducing the previous personal management model. However, we believe that self-government cannot return to a past that acted as a culpture of central power. Self-government must move forward. We will continue to fight so that self-government really is autonomous, it really expresses the will of local societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u23	I give the floor to the State Secretary for Digital Governance, Mr Georganta.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in monitoring the positions of many of you in relation to the issues of digital governance, I have actually been asked a great question, especially, of Members' positions on opposition. On digital governance issues we all agree on the registered problem that is currently in existence, we all agree on the objective to be reached, but you disagree - and you will allow me to say - without any fundamental and reasoned arguments for the choice of this government in a specific way to resolve these issues. We all admit that Greece is going to create a digital bureaucracy, we have all said so. We all agree that there is a very big problem of interoperability between public bodies, so that we can have the best result. We agree that we must reach at least the average of the relevant indicators of the countries of the European Union. We all agree that the state is one and we must treat it as a single form and thus treat the citizens in relation to the transactions they have with it. And we're doing what some people envisioned, but they didn't dare. We give the Ministry of Digital Governance the opportunity to perform the role of the national coordinator, who will draw up, monitor and coordinate all digital policies in the country, so that this fragmentation of digital competences can stop so that the interoperability issues can be resolved. Simple as that. I object in particular to a specific provision which does not lead to this objective. I simply hear from some of the following reasons: 'This leads to over-concentration'. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Digital Governance is not executive power. He doesn't perform such duties. On the other hand, how do we resolve all the coordination issues if this is not possible on the basis of the Ministry's powers to really coordinate all digital policies, to give direction? Indeed, it is doing all this, after it has been done or at the same time, and something else is missing from you, because I have heard from many people that you will actually digit red tape in the country. There is another area to which we pay great attention: it is that of simplification, of the redesign of administrative procedures. We all agree here that there are indeed administrative procedures, which must either be standardised or minimised by what is required of the citizen, in any case redesigned. This is what we ultimately want to digitalise, which is what we want to enable the citizen to enjoy with one request at the same time as most of the services are asking the public. And this whole course requires coordination from the Ministry of Digital Governance. We'll get time. We'll earn money. We're going to gain transparency. The bet's national. There's been a great effort. We all understand that we cannot hope for a good day for our country as a whole if this effort on digital transformation does not succeed. In this context, therefore, the scope and in this outline of any proposal of your own really improves any option of our own with regard to the means, actions and practices that we must follow, of course, to hear it, because the New Democracy neither as an opposition nor of course as a government has ever avoided adopting good thoughts and good practices. But saying that, yes, the objective must be him, but by these means, without describing them, we are leading to over-concentration, just to justify your negative vote in the eyes of the Greek people, who expects us to resolve specific issues of bureaucracy, which will improve his life at all levels from the mere family to the largest investor, I think you will eventually come out of your position today. One last word on the general issues of the bill. Colleagues of counterpopulation, the New Democracy is doing something that sounds paradoxical to you, but ultimately it is self-evident. It implements the policies it has put forward to the Greek people in an entirely detailed and concrete way. These policies, these choices have been rewarded, approved and just now they are bringing them into implementation and legislation. Nothing simpler. This is not violent, as was heard yesterday by a colleague of yours here. It is just a new parliamentary practice, which you must get used to because the New Democracy is intended to support what has been said in an election, what the Greek people have approved of it, and it is good that you consider it right to support it, as we have done in the past. There must be no sterile opposition. It is good to hear everything in here, but know that our final judge, who finally placed you in opposition and us in the government, is the Greek people, who will now be a very tough judge to all of us. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u25	I call on Mr Christoforo - Emmanuel Boutsikaki from New Democracy for five minutes to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Yesterday, it was completed one month after the elections of 7 July, and this government was called upon to deal with emergencies, and the immediate mobilisation of the state mechanism proved to be the important thing to have in the proper positions. In one month's time we made the appropriate decisions to support people affected by the disasters in Matti, as well as the renewal of the area. The emergency number “112” started to function, a large number of policemen returned from the offices on the road and the recruitment of a thousand five hundred police officers was promoted. In addition, within just one month, the government promoted three extremely important bills. The reduction of HOPIA and the improvement for the one hundred and twenty doses were voted on. In addition, the final state bill was passed, and now we are all called upon to vote on the third bill, with arrangements for a wide range of issues that concern us all. This draft law restores the functioning of the ATTs. Through the mere analogy, the former government of SYRIZA attempted to make the elected mayors and the regional hostages of its own minorities. This cannot be tolerated. Local government has a primary role in the administration of local affairs and municipalities and regions must be able to function. A new framework for digital policy, e-government and simplification is being established. Academic freedom is guaranteed and university asylum is finally abolished. The authorities will henceforth be able to intervene when illegal acts are carried out at the university, that is to say, in the case of all public spaces. The unreasonable and unjustified provision for the establishment of a fourth legal school in Patras is being abolished. Patients are facilitated to access high-cost medicines. Finally, in the queues of shame in the EPPY pharmacies. These medicines will be sent to the pharmacy in which the insured person is chosen and can be distributed at home soon, without any financial burden. The interest rate on debts to the insurance funds is reduced from 5% to 3%, just as it has already been done for tax debts. Introduces AMKA to the Civil Register. That's how the road to digital pensioning opens. Finally, two and three years' delays. Finally, in the tails, the lookouts, the beams that degrade human dignity. It restores the functioning of the Competition Committee as an independent authority, because an independent authority cannot indeed be independent if it is run by persons holding or holding government positions. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have one more reason to vote for this bill, because the provisions that I mentioned concern us all and focus on human beings. We must therefore seek the man wherever he is. When in the street of Thebes Oedipus met the Sphinx, and she set up her enigma, he answered: "The man." So this simple word destroyed the monster and, believe me, we have many monsters to destroy in front of us. Finally, something changes in this country and the first month can only be the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u27	We thank Mr Boutsikakis for not only keeping time, but he provided an economy for our colleagues. Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called with limited time and without consulting society to discuss the draft law entitled 'Confidence of the Ministry of Interior, provisions on digital governance and other urgent issues'. It is a project that, together with the law on the final state, comes to establish a deeply conservative and centralised state with an entirely neoliberal approach. You want, in the middle of summer, to impose rather undemocratic practices on the abolition by an article of university asylum, looking to the general depreciation of public universities, with raw intervention by the municipalities, regions and representatives elected on the municipal councils. It is a bill that, from first reading, one understands that this is a completely heterogeneous stitching of anti-democratic and authoritarian ideas and even handwritten with great difficulty in their implementation, which is in many respects contrary to Greek constitution and European legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a little regression on the asylum issue. I would remind you that this was institutionalised for the first time in 1982, since it was customary law until then, even in the years of the junta, was not abolished. In the first conquest of law, the police did not enter the building, while the latter entered it with a caller's decision. The Senate did not give its consent to the military invasion of the Polytechnic in November 1973 and resigned to follow the tank invasion. The events of the Polytechnic School have played a decisive role in political developments, as much as some are trying to deceive the struggles and resistance of the Greek people by characterizing them mentally ill and anti-resistanceal. Asylum is inherent and inextricably integrated with the struggles for freedom and rights and its abolition is a blow to democracy. The case of asylum is deeply linked to the Greek University and the historical consciousness of this country, as well as to the values of European culture shared by its independence. Obviously, we will not hear any of these in the systemic media because they have other priorities. To present universities as centres of lawlessness and corruption. You will not solve any problems as the previous abolition of asylum with the Diamantopoulou Act has not solved. Since 2011, there has been no regulated asylum for six years. Has the law stopped and returned in 2017 that was restored by law? Can you support that? Obviously not, because the total attack on asylum under the current provisions does not come to light on individual cases of drug trafficking or infraction. If we do not want to play with words, the existing legislation covers completely such phenomena. It is clear that the Government's study to abolish asylum is immediately intertwined with its attempt to cope more easily with the mobilisations that will come with the measures you are preparing to legislate. For example, I would mention the dramatic reduction in admissions resulting from the minimum '10' basis for entry into universities and the suspension of the two-year courses of study at universities, before they even operate and are evaluated, with the result that some two thousand graduates of the ESDP, who did not give examinations to register in the two-year programmes, lose a year or at best, will be taken to private education. It is clear that your aim is not to solve existing problems of minor infraction or offences that may occur in some schools of major cities, but to finish with the legacy of post-multipulation that has been posed since the beginning of the economic crisis. You want the fading of the public university through the abolition of asylum, which is inextricably bound up with the self-sufficiency and autonomy of universities as an area for research, teaching and critical knowledge. You do this to satisfy your obsession with private universities through the depreciation of public institutions, which are high on the global ranking and their graduates are located abroad. The transfer of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Development and Investment signals a new concept of research and creates a fresh impression when, for the first time, the NRP's committed appropriations for research and innovation have almost exhausted the entire amount available, over 900m euros, with some seven hundred innovative businesses benefiting from the two-two-three were created in the crisis. Moreover, the performance of our country on innovation, as expressed by the European Union's indicators, has been steadily increasing since 2015, beyond time-consuming stable performance even when the General Secretariat of Research and Technology was subject to the Ministry of Development. In addition to the continuous improvement of the country's scientific and innovation performance indicators, public expenditure on research and innovation has been spectacularly increased since 2015, which has attracted an increase in expenditure from private sector own revenues, which has for the first time been equitable with those of the public sector and which have exceeded, in 2017, 2 billion. The euro, in the context of crisis situations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u29	Close, Mr. Colleague, because you're hurting and taking time from the next. Finish up, last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u30	Wait a minute, Mr. President. All this was achieved while the General Secretariat of Research and Technology operated the framework of the Ministry of Education, based on strong synergies between HEIs and research centres. And if these are not convinced, the approach of NATURE, which talks about an increase in expenditure to 1.13% of GDP, also created the Hellenic Foundation for Research and Innovation in Athens and launched research centres friendlyly to the industry. Finally, as far as the provisions for local government are concerned, it is clear that they reflect the fear of your Government for simple analogues, which enables citizens to express themselves equally and democratically, to cultivate a culture of consensus and participation in society.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u31	You're done. Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, just a minute to finish, time is too short.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u33	Now, I beg your pardon, you have exceeded seven minutes, and there are colleagues who are for the first time speaking and will not be able to do so. Well, you're done, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u34	So, with these conditions, it is not possible to vote in favour of this bill, which is confusing the social conservative concept of the New Democracy, and it is another regression of conception.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u35	I will now give the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Kerameos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are times when people who are involved in public affairs are struggling to simply implement common sense. We are dealing with issues that other countries have long resolved, and we are dealing with issues that seem to be so self-evident. One of these is to ensure the regularity of universities. Do we want students and teachers to be able to speak freely at universities without fear that someone will attack them on the opinions they expressed? I want to think we want to. Do we want universities not to be drug-trafficking sites? Do we want universities not to be used by criminal law perpetrators as shelters for immunity? Do we want teachers and teachers not to spend energy and time in dealing with incidents of violence and lawlessness, in pre-conflicts between students and teachers, in disasters in university property, in students, in machinery, in buildings, but to focus on their real mission, namely academic research, academic teaching and the best management of their institutions? If, ladies and gentlemen, we want all of this - and I really want to believe that all the Members of this House want - then we must shield the universities, we must protect the free movement of ideas within them, we must prevent any action that tries to restrict or destroy this freedom. We have excellent institutions, excellent students, teachers, administrative staff. It is the state's duty to ensure for them all a healthier academic environment, so that they too can focus on their work. Ladies and gentlemen, we are putting an end to the absurdity, and we are making this self-evident. The government's decision is to tackle the distortion of university asylum, its abuse, its hardship, its transformation from asylum of ideas into an asylum of lawlessness and infraction. The government's decision is to restore asylum in its true sense, namely to safeguard the free movement of ideas in universities. It is the government's decision to award the universities to those to whom they truly belong, to teachers, students, to administrative staff. We have two types of action to deal with: we have legal actions within some - not all - universities in the country. Pre-conflicts, violence, destruction of public property, manufacture and circulation of illegal materials, drug trafficking. And we also have unlawful actions taking place outside university institutions with the perpetrators to resort to institutions for only one reason. Who? Avoid arrest, thus turning OHIM spaces into visible, but unreservedly to public authorities, shelters and orchestras. What do we propose and insist on, ladies and gentlemen, in our original proposal, implementing a fundamental election commitment? Within the premises of the OHIM, the public authorities shall exercise all their powers under the law, including the intervention on the grounds of conduct of criminal offences. The universities therefore cease to be part of the protection of unlawful actions and behaviour, which are carried out within them and cease to be the refuge for offenders who are criminals other than EIOs who enter them in order to avoid arrest. The area of HEIs is assimilated to the common public space as regards the exercise of the powers of the public authorities and their interference with the conduct of criminal offences. I answer directly to questions. Which public authorities? Anyone who is legally competent: the Prosecutor's Office, the Police - for example - to fire-fighting and town planning, in the case of urban intervention, the ILO, in the case of economic crimes. Second question: do we want police campus? Of course not. Our wish would be that the device should never be applied and operated only deterrently. Third question: is it enough for a provision to rectify the situation, so that we can move on to the much-conscious normality? Answer: No, it's not enough. But it is a necessary step. We need an adequate institutional framework. And from there on, a strong political will is needed to implement this institutional framework in practice. And you will see that the government has this political will. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs is ringing.]] Why does the current law of SYRIZA not cover us? For two reasons: firstly, because it stipulates that the authorities have exclusive competence in universities only in the event of crimes and crimes against life, not in the event of crimes, not in the event of offences. One example to tell you only: the cause of serious physical damage is a flood. But the police can't intervene. To cause serious physical damage! Secondly, for which we are not covered by the current regime: why has it introduced this distinction between the various worthy acts of crimes, tortures and crimes against life on the one hand and crimes against life on the other? In order to make this distinction, however, one must make a legal designation. To say that this act is a slap, a flood, a felony, a crime against life. So what, in practice? When a criminal act takes place, it spends many hours, not to say days...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u37	Time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u38	It's time, Mrs. Fotio. The President is wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u39	If it's wrong, let the President correct him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u40	So what, in practice? In practice, it spends a few hours, sometimes days and days, until the multitude deeds are convened and it decides on criminal offences that take place and usually last only a few seconds. So the message in all directions by SYRIZA's outgoing government was a message of tolerance to violence and lawlessness. The proposed provision allows the authorities to intervene on any criminal offence, not just crimes and crimes against life. There is no provision for any intervention by the Republican authorities, nor is there any permission to inform the dean. The procedure is indisputable. It applies to the HEIs exactly what applies to every public space in the country. In other words, the authorities can intervene for any criminal offence, as defined in the common legislation. I now come to the Change Movement and his proposal. It's a respectable thing. We do not agree with this proposal. We do not agree because it reintroduces a special status to universities. It introduces more limited protection than common public spaces. It does not like university space to the public space. Ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, as long as we open windows to the provision, there is a major risk that this will remain inapplicable. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to make cuts, if we want to substantially upgrade the academic environment, we need clean solutions, clean lines, without asterisks, without windows, without suspensions. To apply to the public university exactly what applies to every public space in the country, so that there is a real, unlimited free movement of ideas. I shall now close on the subject of asylum. Asylum is certainly an important regulation. But she's not the only one. It forms part of a comprehensive effort to substantially upgrade and shield our institutions into four main axes: greater freedom and autonomy for our institutions, extrovert, better interconnection with the labour market, better adaptation to the new digital economy and information society data. And in the next period the government will take significant action on all these axes. I move on to the other arrangements of the bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs is ringing.]] Mr President, I think you have made time wrong at first, it is twelve minutes of initial time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u41	No, it's an emergency.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u42	Yeah, yeah, that's why it's 12 and it's not fifteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u43	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u44	In this draft law we also recommend a number of positive and necessary arrangements towards resolving urgent issues ahead of the start of the new teaching and academic year and also necessary arrangements for the smooth continuation of administration. We recommend an arrangement to ensure the recruitment of the necessary assistant teachers for the needs of the teaching year 2019-2020. We recommend arrangements for standards and experimental schools. It provides for the possibility of extending the term of office of teachers serving in these schools in the light of a review of the institutional framework of those schools. Strengthening the institution of pilot and experimental schools and their emergence as islands of excellence and innovation in every region of the country is our central political priority. Arrangement for the lifting of the provision for the establishment of a legal school in Patras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u45	To conclude, Minister, and to clarify that you are not the accelerating minister, the bill recommends the Ministry of the Interior. Twelve minutes apply to this...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u46	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u47	As far as the Members' protest is concerned, I should like to say that there has been tolerance - not to say the names - nine minutes have been spoken by Mr Haritsis of the five that he had. Mr. Janakopoulos was here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u48	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u49	And you, Mr. Thraniotis, spoke seven and a half minutes. Madam Minister, please go ahead and please make it very easy for the Bureau to conclude in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u50	We have discussed this in detail in committee on this matter. It's not a Patras issue, it's a matter of fourth law school wherever it was founded. Established without academic criteria, without taking into account the results of the evaluation, without substantial feasibility and viability studies, without overall planning, without participation by the Independent Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in Higher Education. Finally, we are introducing some regulations to solve major problems of public vocational education and training that SYRIZA has inherited us, and because I have heard about a class measure of the Government of New Democracy, what truth is it in favour of public vocational training when they pay the teachers of public IEK who SYRIZA left unpaid? We are therefore bringing arrangements for the payment of the fees due to trainers in the public IEK, and we are taking care of the possibility of selecting and recruiting trainers in the public IEK for the smooth start of the teaching year, taking care of the possibility of launching the Centres for Lifelong Learning, given the problem that was created by the non-certification of their curriculum. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs is ringing.]] In this context - and I will end, Mr President - because for the government the strengthening and upgrading of vocational education and training and lifelong learning is a strategic priority, seeking to make a conscious choice for many, from a need solution to a few, we are going to revise its apprenticeship framework, which is characterised by Germanism. In this context, by means of an amendment to this draft law, under number 22, and a special number 10, we propose that vocational training centres and vocational training programmes be suspended, which were organised without a prior substantial study, without any preparation and documentation, without any cooperation with market officials. They cover many of the same skills as the skills already offered in IEK and in the post-training year, a class of apprenticeship. They are not certified by the EEA, they have not yet been operational, the notice for expressions of interest and registration of students has not been issued, they have been established without the wording of the opinion of the ESRB and the National Committee for Vocational Education and Training. And these two-year cycles in other countries are also targeted at groups of people who need retraining through non-formal and informal learning processes, while in our country there is no system in operation and procedures have been completed for years in the EEA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u51	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u52	I shall conclude, Mr President. The operation of the two-year programmes is therefore suspended and the government will review the framework for vocational education and training in our country as a whole. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u53	I want to explain to some people who are protesting. Many years we have lived in this Chamber and are well aware of the time. And let me tell you something else. I consciously let Mr. Haritsi speak for ten minutes. Do you know why? Because he's the former Interior Minister. And we are consciously giving more time to the Minister of Education, because the bill has a great deal of reference. Well, from there on, I'm pleading with colleagues to keep track of time. When the Bureau considers that someone should have more time, it will. In other words, Mr Janakopoulou, let me say that I see that he has depleted secondary education, if he calls for secondary education, I will give him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u54	I will not ask you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u55	I don't know if you understand. You had eighteen minutes in your prototype. Times shall be recorded. But if you ask, I'll give you, Mr. Janakopoulos, because that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u56	You're right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u57	Well, we're continuing the list of speakers. Mr Ciridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u58	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the Greek Parliament for its first speech to thank the Athenians and the Athenians who trusted me and brought me here with their vote. My task is to work for the public interest and for what I committed to the citizens of the Northern Athens Sector. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we are experiencing a period of unprecedented tension in government and parliamentary action. With the bill under discussion, the first wave of a legislature is completed, I would say 'Blitzkrieg', a typhoon attempt to reverse the country's course and uplift. Our first legislative initiative marked a new economic policy with lower taxes and higher growth. The second is aimed at more efficient and uninformed operation of the state. Now we are trying to make the municipalities and regions governable at the request of the local rulers themselves and to free the universities from lawlessness and infraction, as the university community itself asks us to do, for example, the meeting of the regulators and the POSDEP. Ladies and gentlemen, I am overcoming the granting of medicines by the EEAS, the digital pension version and all these other provisions which are half the bill, in which we very much agree and have not heard any objections, and I will concentrate on the two political central issues. I'm starting at the first of the interior ministry. SYRIZA confesss to a mere analogue. But here, as in its overall course, SYRIZA's position is contradictory. I'm afraid the contradiction is the permanent situation that characterizes you, gentlemen of SYRIZA. You are rejoicing and at the same time denouncing fiscal stabilisation and austerity. You advertise your four-year-olds, but you tell us not to judge you for the period until August 2018. Of course you carry the constant stress and vagina of the first semester of 2015. And here Mr Varoufakis and his party are to remind us of it, even if we wanted to forget it. So confused you go, as you've been all the previous years, trying to find shelter often, I fear, in screaming and personal attacks. Ladies and gentlemen, the main problem with SYRIZA and simply proportionate is inconsistency. He ruled with the bonus of the fifty seats he denounced and did not jeopardize his dismissal, only when he was confirmed for his defeat in his second term. In local government, he instituted something unprecedented. The simple proportional election in two rounds. This system is nowhere in the world and creates a conflicting division between the board and the mayor or the district commander, which leads directly to the rulership. If, in fact, you believed in the simple analogue, you would have fully institutionalised it on one Sunday with the election of the mayor and regional authority not by the people, but by the municipal or regional council. A prerequisite for representativeness and democracy, for which you are cut, is rulership. This is the primary, the major, the first. This does not mean democracy and representation. The fact is that the Government of New Democracy wants a strong local government and intends, as has been noted in the programme statements, to proceed with the establishment - at last - of own resources. And I look forward to the next initiatives of the Ministry of Interior in this context. For example, throughout the developed world, and in the American and European versions, taxes on immovable property - for example - are primarily local. I now come to the issue of asylum. The liberation of universities and all public spaces from lawlessness has been a central pre-election commitment of the New Democracy. Alas, if we ignore the clear folk order. However, I note with satisfaction what we said before the elections: Ladies and gentlemen, are you happy with the public image of our universities today?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u59	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u60	Is it possible for the university community to live under the stress of preconflicts, beatings, thefts and other much more serious criminal offences, Sias?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u61	We were at the same university.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u62	I'll talk to you about our university later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u63	Don't interrupt, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u64	For twenty-five years, the student hall - something for which Ms. Anagnostopoulos, my dear colleague from Panteion - has been taking place - has been under arrest for twenty-five years, at the expense of the poor students of Panteion from the province, who did not have the student care they deserve and paid for by the taxpayer Greek people!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u65	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u66	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u67	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u68	Is it possible for the former Minister of Education to ask us universities to self-organise ourselves against violence, that is, to self-evidently self-evidently? So, safe for us MPs with a lot of policemen to say without seeing workers and students complain, but to protect themselves? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Is it possible for the university to leave his room for security reasons? Are the Aristotle authorities punishing Jean-Claude Juncker and the ceremony must be held in Thessaloniki's Concert Hall for security? I shall conclude, Mr President. Is it possible for the Panteios student hall - I told you - to be in possession for twenty-five years at the expense of the housing needs of the poor students in the province? Is it possible to organise an international meeting on any matter, and should we take the permission of the invasion orders that plunge public property and public university? Who, at last, is harming the continuing degradation and dismantling of the university that you are defending? It certainly does not harm the owners of private universities in our neighborhood, who do gold jobs with Greeks, nor does it involve the elite children, including the children of Mr. Tsipras who go to expensive private schools and then abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u69	Close, Mr. Courides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u70	This goes beyond the limits of vulnerability. It's too thick!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u71	But there's another question...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Courides, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u73	Truth is never vulgar.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u74	You're vulgar, not the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u75	Another issue is being raised. The central idea of SYRIZA for returning authoritarianism to the university is shared by all its Members? There are several of you - do not force me to mention by name - who voted for the corresponding regulation of the Diamantopoulou Act in 2011. Why don't they talk now? Why don't they take the floor? Then the criminal's suppression was good, but is it bad today? Allow me, with all due respect, to give them up and give them up - because they are women - for inconsistency that benefits the dignity of political order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u76	Finish up, Mr. Courides. You have gone to seven minutes and you have difficulty with the Bureau. Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u77	Of course, today's regulation is only the beginning. We need rules of operation at universities, adopted by the universities themselves, which define disciplinary measures and how to behave. We need the evaluation...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u78	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u79	I'm ending with a phrase. ... of the educational and research work offered to universities and the interconnection of additional funding with this evaluation. We need a lot more. But we are taking the first step in real terms to raise the university and the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u80	Thank you. Mrs Silver Skondra has the floor from New Democracy. Hot to keep the five minutes. From now on, I'll be a little tighter. Tolerance will be a little less. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u81	I am very pleased with this bill for many reasons, for the immediate implementation of my Prime Minister's basic announcements, for the readiness and speed of the competent ministers, for the anthropocentric nature of the provisions it contains, for it puts an end to distortions, pathogens and problems and so the daily life of my fellow citizens is simpler and qualitative, because the operation of the state will obviously be more effective and more efficient. It is, of course, a question of why, with all these fine anti-Civilisation, we are not in agreement. For two very clear reasons. Firstly, because discomfort and trembling from the recent defeat leads them instinctively to do what they know best, to react to everything and to blame. Let us think, ladies and gentlemen, they have come to accuse Mr Mitsotakis of populism. Who? Those who have populism are identical to their political existence. Secondly, because in SYRIZA they do not want a normal, proper state to apply rules, common sense and tranquility dominate. When they hear about progress, quiet, order, and security, which the citizens desperately demand, they suffer allergy. They're fascinated by chaos and noisy. Mr Tsipras also reiterated the saying of Mao 'a great turbulence, a wonderful situation'. Ladies and gentlemen, for us democratic, the right one, logic is seen as self-evident in a government and fortunately for the majority of citizens. That's why he chose us a month ago. The Greeks and the Greeks knew that we will change it today. Although in 2019, with the dissemination of freedom everywhere and to all, we will protect and safeguard asylum as an institutional guarantee of academic freedom of movement of ideas, freedom of expression, research and teaching, not as an alibi for the conversion of our universities into refuges of illegality, violence, drug trafficking and the construction of molotovs, not as a tool for some to be able to frighten, blackmail and control students, teachers and universities. This issue should be resolved for ever and ever. We must stop being the only country where laws and regulations will apply properly. They should apply to all places, to all citizens, to the whole country. To those who do not claim that the student movement is responsible for protecting the asylum of the university and its property, I reply this. Most of the student movement protects all this. Minor groups, however, are the ones that create the problem, blackening the image of our universities worldwide, blocking the work of academics, financially burdening the state and creating indignation and indignation among students, parents and all citizens. So in this situation, he's coming to an end. Ladies and gentlemen, the arrangements in Grade I and Grade II, which are extremely necessary and necessary for the governance, the smooth functioning of municipalities and regions, prevent problems that will surely cause in its implementation the simple analogue. I think it is forbidden to carry out experiments and tests in the central area of self-government. These provisions not only prevent cooperation, instead encourage them, but on the table and not below. They give a solution to the lack of decision-making and allow the democratic right to a mayor or regional mayor to implement the programme on the basis of which he was elected. They demonstrate the seriousness and gravity that the government attaches to the institution of self-government and thus to the everyday life and quality of every citizen. At this point, Mr Ministers, let me raise an issue concerning small and disadvantaged municipalities, such as the municipality - to which I am a democrat - of Lake Plastira Carditsa. This is about subsecution, and we should see the point of dismantling anti-democrats, because in parallel with this, special advisers are being removed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. On the part now concerning the Ministry of Health it is useful, necessary and necessary, to put an end to the regulations that put an end to the tails in the EOPY pharmacies. At least so many of our fellow citizens of cancer patients or with multiple sclerosis standing straight in line to receive their chemo medications. A organized state has to find ways of serving the heavy illnesses, and that is what the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis does. As for SYRIZA's colleagues and their social sensitivity, I would like to say what my neighbours say in Carditsa, 'Others have the name and others have the grace'! Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to digital governance...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u82	Complete, don't open any more capital.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u83	I shall conclude, Mr President. The provisions concerning this component in practice create a true Ministry of Digital Governance and build a basis for the country's e-government. This is an excellent reform for the efficient functioning of the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u85	To conclude, Mr President - let me finish properly - I would like to say that I am going to pay particular attention to the digital version of pensions, as it will be, which means speeding up pensions, because what is happening today is tragic for the people who wait two and a half and three years to get their pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u86	Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u87	I also welcome the reduction of the interest rate on the insurance funds. In conclusion, Mr President, I am voting for this bill and I hope that soon the Greeks will be able to enjoy the respect that they must and must have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u88	Good, thank you. Mr Constantine Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, a good start! Because it has been heard by the previous speaker that we are reacting to everything, I would like to say that we obviously do not react to everything. After all, you know that the first bill that came to plenary has been passed. But the fact that Mrs.Mitsotakis and populism are not a genius, and every day you will listen to it and every day it will prove to be clearer and clearer. How else can it be explained that a country which, according to you, was in a fourth memorandum, was close to a financial derailment, as far as the media were concerned, finds within 15 days of the collapse, over and above what we legislated in May as a reduction? Either you don't understand how the economy is going or you understand and say any more. So you're populists. And not to go to the Prespecies Agreement. We will, at least, discuss this in the future and try to implement it properly. I saw Mrs Keramea in the Chamber earlier. I was surprised. And I was amazed that, on the basis of the debate and the arguments of the New Democracy speakers, I expected to see Mr Chrysochide, because I understand that today's parliamentary majority perceives the issue of asylum as a matter of public order and not as a matter related to education and research. What is New Democracy telling us? New Democracy says our universities are a man of lawlessness and infraction. I'm asking a question. Does he imply the reverse, that is what is seen by positions, by officials and friends in the New Democracy, that, by ending with the asylum, we are also ending with violation? Imagine the possibility of anticipation and the collapse of the account when voting for this provision does not change the landscape with regard to crime in the city centre. Because you are dealing with matters of carelessness, ideality and obsession. And it is appallingly simplistic and idealistic your position on asylum, because it was a close arrangement that had come with the Diamantopoulou Act. What happened then? Were the HEIs transformed into Eden, and suddenly with the Gabroglou law, became hell? Of course not. That is why, in our view, you are obsessive and ideological. Because instead of seeing existing issues with design and realism, you do politics with chips and slogans. Mr. Ploris told us yesterday: 'Can I go as a Member of Parliament to speak to a country's HEI without causing tension? How are we going to solve this?" This is a problem that Mr Katrugalos has faced. Obviously, in the minds of Mr. Plori it is to go and solve it with the MATs, that is, he imagines himself going to an amphitheater and speaks guarded by a platoon of MATs. Well, we do not regard this as a university, we do not regard it as a public university. Is there a problem? Of course there may be a problem. How can we solve this? Let us be able to finance the universities so that they can have sufficient staff, try and drown the crime out of it, so that it is also demolished within. We understand why there is no asylum there is a crime. Can you understand that? Because the reason why there is a crime in ASEAN, the EDF, is the same reason why there is a crime in Omonia that has no asylum, in Kotzia Square that has no asylum. So what are you telling us? That this will stop the crime. We'll see about that. Shall we go to the most democratically sensitive issues? If a student club in October, on the basis of its statute, has decided on an issue, for example in 2005 that I was a student for Article 16. Is the police coming in and interfering to block an educational project? This is the real abolition of democracy at the university. And let's go see something else? What is happening in countries where we do not have asylum with crime and within universities? What's going on in the United States? What's going on in Great Britain? There is higher crime than Greece that characterises universities as a man of lawlessness. That's why your analysis is shallow. But I must tell you that it is a strong symbolism for you and that is why you want to do so. Because you want to show that on August 8, 2019, a flag of democracy and freedom is being suppressed. That's your main reason. But, in my opinion, you are also fearful. Why? Why are you voting for it today, August 8th? You took 39% in the national elections, but you are trying to vote for asylum with the schools closed down. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you could give me a minute more. Fear the dialogue with the students. You're afraid of dialogue with the teachers. Fear of your views, because you know that your views are not hegemony, neither in the new generation nor in the field of the university. Because if you believed in your views, if you thought you had hegemony, you would vote for the arrangement in October with the schools open, and there we would see how waste the bag is going to get. A brief placement for local government. It's very simple. What do we want in local government? We want self-government that at its very heart is producing consensus and cooperation. That is why we brought 'CLISTEN'. What do you want? You want local self-government that is based on producing conflicts and pluralisms. Why? Because we believe that municipality groups can and should be consulted about the square, on the sidewalk, on the green, on the waste, while you do not believe this and only believe that they want to collide. So we are voting against this bill. We're across the street. We'll judge you, we'll control you. And I want to say one last thing, that you may have taken 39% of the elections, but we have taken a strong mandate. We got almost 32%. We are here, we are present, we will control you parliamentaryally and we will oppose you socially, wherever and where necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u90	I give the floor to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason why I asked for the floor is to develop the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. However, as Mr Zachariadis has just come out of Step, let me just two words on the issue of asylum, which is also concerned today in the context of the debate on this draft law. Mr Zachariadis has an argument, which is interesting. He says: 'The abolition of asylum solves the issues of lawlessness'. Answer: No. But the next question I have to answer is the question I have to answer. 'Conservation of asylum makes it difficult to implement the legal order?' That's the right question, not the other one. The other will indeed be judged in the context of the overall anti-climatic policy. And what you also have to answer is why are you still defending an asylum that is connected with illegal acts? That's why I haven't heard an answer. All the rest are interesting, but in this respect you have not given an answer. The general concern of the state - I beg your pardon - is there not, in general, an issue within society? So in your example, whether or not the police are right or not to exercise their public authority to enforce the legal order is not a problem, is it not a question? Why should there be special treatment of the university's public space? I'm closing up to come to the amendment. Firstly, those of you who are older know that I do not like late amendments and I do not like the amendments in unrelated bills. I would, however, like him to accept - and I hope with the broadest possible majority - this amendment and I will explain the reasons for the delay, but also why it is submitted to a draft in principle that is not relevant. The question of African swine fever is an animal disease that has a characteristics of haemorrhagic disease, affects pigs, whether domesticated or kept, is transmitted at a very high speed and has occurred for some years in Europe. It is an issue that the Council of Ministers for Rural Development and various countries have repeatedly dealt with and the European Union has given direction to its handling. So far, our country has not been in direct danger. Why? Because it had not occurred nearer. Romania has, however, been hit and severely damaged of livestock for this reason. I stress that he is an animal disease, that does not concern people, there is no danger to humans, it is not passed on to humans but it affects livestock. Treatment in fact is that pigs are being killed trying to limit the transmission of the disease. This disease has also occurred in Bulgaria. Until first it was relatively north, now there have also been cases in Filipoupolis. So the disease goes down to our area. We need to take immediate action. There are things that have been done by the Ministry and by Mr Arachovitis's Minister, in order to intensify controls, to inform the pig farmers about the treatment protocols. There are a number of measures already taken. Now, just because we are at that very closeness, what we want to do is to exhaust every possibility that the disease does not come to us. What does that practically mean? There are a number of issues that have already been done and are being done within this last period of very intensively. If I have time and if necessary - and with the Bureau's permission - I can develop them later, but let me focus on what we want to do with this amendment. This amendment allows, by way of derogation from each provision, up to fifty veterinarians, once within one year. I say by way of derogation from every provision - although you also know me how much I hate derogations, especially in recruitment - and I will explain the necessity. We have two provisions, two possibilities for making direct recruitment when there is a problem. Why do we have to do a direct intake of veterinarians? For these forty-six veterinarians are distributed in a way that already exists in this draft ministerial decision, which I have already adopted and which I will have adopted if you adopt the provision by your own legislative authority by Friday. The distribution will take place in the veterinary regions. Here are the criteria, the way, the molecules, all the details of their recruitment will be defined. But why immediately? Immediately, because we want to intensify controls. We want to intensify controls in a period of touristism, because at the moment we are under pressure, the disease is, unfortunately, passed on with food, not only with animals, and we must therefore make an effort to control food. We need to make an effort to inform and control both at the gates of entry, but also at various other points where we have pigs in Greece. So we want to intensify these controls. Now the agency - and I must acknowledge it here, because it is the Director-General of the Veterinary Service here, who has done an excellent job and a very great effort on this issue - states, like the regions, that the staff for this increased vigilance we want are not enough. So we want to make this immediate intake. We're talking up to fifty, I'm telling you, they're forty-six the vets we'll hire. What is the legislative option if we did not go with the derogating provisions? One is with one, if you want, relatively urgent procedure in the AACC, which lasts six to eight months to finish. We are not facing the immediate and urgent need for this zoonoses in Filippopolis now. The second procedure, which is in fact by way of derogation, is the declaration of emergency in the regions. There is no case in the areas at present for them to be declared in an emergency. So to prevent what we want to do, there is a legislative gap. This legislative gap we want to fill with this derogation we are asking for in order to proceed to a direct recruitment process. Unfortunately - and this is something that I think it should work for the Ministry of Rural Development - we do not have an extraordinary CEDEFOP type procedure there, which can be recruited precisely to deal with immediate and exceptional needs when there is a need for this. We do not have such a procedure, and there must be this special arrangement that we are asking for to meet this immediate need. It is limited, it is targeted, it speaks for up to fifty, it is once a year, they are veterinarians, it is to address this risk that we have to face today in order to protect the livestock, to do everything possible in this direction. There are other measures we have taken, they are combined with the sprout, they are combined with the updates, they are combined with a number of things. If you're interested at some point, we can talk more widely about it. But now, in order not to abuse time, I have explained the necessity, the urgency of this regulation, which we ask Parliament to approve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u94	Would you like something on this subject, Mr Polakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u95	Yes, Mr President, I would like to ask you something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u96	Yes, you can ask now where the Minister is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u97	That's why I wanted to talk now. I did tell Mr. Janakopoulos that if Mr. Voridis comes, I want him to speak while I'm here. Listen, Mr. Voridis. It burns in the pumpkin, blows the yogurt. Your position - now I'm kidding - reminded Mr. Avramopoulos' positions when the flu was coming to Greece. Listen to me, now I'm serious. There's a way to solve this. We've removed his ability. Listen, there's a solution. Listen to us to apply it. Because basically what you are doing here - although you are sitting in the Ministry of Health for six months - is a transfer of CEDEFOP know-how to zoonoses in the Ministry of Rural Development. We are not voting for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u98	To zoonotics.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u99	In zoonoses, at least. In the explanatory statement you do not say that it is just for that. I know the problem with African swine fever, etc. Indeed, if he comes in, we'll have a situation, I understand. There are a hundred and eighty veterinarians in the Ministry of the Interior, there are a hundred seventy farmers in the Ministry of Rural Development. There's been some moves. I accept because it will be a great deal of damage if it comes in, that there must be an answer. Do not give the answer you have given in the past. Don't give it to me. There's a procedure, except for the procedure you said about an emergency. There's the one we applied to the Ministry of Health and we cleaned the scenery and he doesn't speak human, because it's very clean and crystal. Copy the supplementary staff amendment in the new way we have done, namely electronic platform: what posts do you need per region in Greece, with automatic moleculosis, on the basis of criteria. So, he wants the Attica nurse? He wants a maker? Who do they report once a year? Because you say it here. There can be more next year. Once a year automatic ranking and from this table you get. They're classified in a row, they're assigned, they're in "DENMARK". Because as you write it, we take whoever we want. And now you're saying you're taking veterinarians for swine fever, but here you're talking about issues from industrial or technological accidents, or I don't know what, etc., tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, you can get what you want. I'm telling you. Do not transfer the CDC expertise, transfer what we have done and cleaned up with this story. I understand the need. Why did we do that to health? We had two nurses who, due to being pregnant, leaving, taking leave, closed a bed of intensive therapy. Now that's not possible, because there's this list, they've made thousands of people applications. The hospital has resources and takes two out of the list, with an annual or two-year contract even, as we then gave, to cover the gap. Do this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u100	It's understood, Mr. Polakis. Close if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u101	Make it more complete, if you want, but like this. So we don't vote for it. If you do what I tell you, of course, we will. We understand the need. Describe necessities. It's fast.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u102	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u103	Also to help more, the platform is made with the help of the EEA's IT department. The kids there are gimmicks. They'll help you write it down, how it's going to be. That's right, though. That's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman of the JRC, Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, I have asked for the floor for a question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u106	Excuse me, but not to create any impressions. I excuse you, but you have spoken for the first time as a parliamentary representative and you cannot take the floor again when Mr Karathanasopoulos speaks for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, you do not understand. I wanted a question to Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u108	Okay. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, the government and today's draft law are progressing with great determination in the transformation of the urban state into an even more decisive tool, in the fulfilment of the needs of business groups, in the implementation of policies that serve the needs of business groups, in a tool which at the same time reduces the quality of life of the people's populations, and which eliminates a number of individual and collective rights, which is shielded by repressive mechanisms against the organized labour, popular and neo-leaving movement. That also means the digital governance, which you chose as a government to bring in the urgency process into a multi-project with a number of other important regulations. All this has escaped the debate and is opening serious issues for the protection of personal data, digital governance and, of course, it is creating a much more effective mechanism for the rapid implementation of anti-popular policy. But all these issues could have been discussed much more thoroughly. The government has chosen to come with the plan to bring a number of other serious issues to the debate and they have basically taken over the main part of the controversy. First of all, it is about the changes made to local and regional administration in the context of the changes brought by KLITHENIS, where KLITHENIS I is nothing but a follow-up to the previous reforms, the "KOLIKRATI" and the "KOLIKRATI" where it was even more suited to the needs of the business groups, municipalities and regions with specific, clear objectives. First, facilitating business activity. This is what the New Democracy focuses on. The Minister in his place yesterday was particularly revealing. What do municipalities and regions want? Tools for growth, to support entrepreneurship. But this very logic is also the precursor bed to satisfy the workers' rights, contributes to the degradation of the lives of the people's layers and transfers to the well-known works and infrastructures related to the improvement of the quality of life and the protection of human life, such as anti-Semitism, anti-military and anti-nuclear protection projects. Secondly, it makes the logic of economic self-interest even deeper through the reactionary class concept of reciprocity, with new taxes, new fees, so that people's needs can be met. Thirdly, it forms an even more stringent framework for supervising the municipalities and regions and their operation by the urban state. The Economic Observatory is here, there is, the budgetary discipline and the surplus budgets it imposes on the municipalities, as is the decentralised administration that not only controls the legality but also the feasibility of decisions, that is to say, that nothing escapes anti-grass policy. Thus, the conclusion of the reform of KLITHENH is the conversion of municipalities and regions into an even more stringent instrument for implementing anti-population policy. That is what the New Democracy and SYRIZA, of course, recommended reform, but also the PASOK. Where do you focus your confrontation? In the dilemma 'governance or democracy'. In other words, we have a repetition of the disorientative controversy we have seen and during the 'CLISTEN' debate. In other words, the whole controversy focuses on the electoral system. And that is why the SYRIZA government has responsibilities, which has brought about a tragedy electoral system. Simple proportional for the municipalities and for the municipal and regional councils, majority for the mayor and regional director. With these changes which you are making, Minister, you are creating mechanisms in the bodies of the municipalities, such as the Economic Committee, the Committee on Quality of Life, a large majority. In fact, not only do you form a broad majority, but you also transfer responsibilities to these committees not so innocent, for example, the deletion of debts of up to EUR 150,000, which can only be done by the Economic Committee. Really, 150,000 euros who owe them? People's families owe the municipalities? Is there also a provision that you have jurisdiction to facilitate the financial simply and simply for debts of more than EUR 150,000 and, as a government, but also for SYRIZA to vote against the JRC's proposal for a law, which called for the right by a documented decision of the municipal councils to delete a debt of EUR 500,000 and for municipalities not to seize? You reject this in order for municipalities to make confiscations to those who owe little, to the people's family, while, respectively, you are giving the grandeur the right to write off debts and to give them facilities. Furthermore, the provision in place to deal with the technical programme and the budget is incomprehensible. Of course, SYRIZA opened your eyes, which had a similar provision at "CLOSHEN". In other words, in order to vote against the technical programme or the budget, it must submit an integrated technical counter-proposal for the technical programme and another integrated proposal for the budget and have the approval of the services. In other words, at the Regional Council of Western Greece, we will not have the right to vote against the technical budget programme, once we have not tabled an integrated proposal. That's what you say inside. These votes do not count as negative votes. Will we just be able to academically deliver our opinion? Do we attend and say hello? That is what you are doing and that is a challenge. Secondly, the question of this reactionary logic which the government introduces is precisely the entire debate that is taking place on universities, and it has even given a false title: 'Strengthening the quality of the academic environment'. The government, as well as the Members of the New Democracy, are using other MPs, hollow expressions of empty content. 'Academic freedom'. Take the egg and cut it if we see what that thing means. But what does it mean to upgrade the academic environment? For us it has very specific content. First, schools with single curriculum and with clarification of the scientific object that will not only have it, but will also be able to have a critical view of the scientific subject, with a category of diplomas for all students and not with these many categories of degrees. Diplomas will directly give the right to the practice of professional rights rather than disconnection, with research and innovation to satisfy people's needs and to produce new knowledge that is revolutionary, with the full development of workshops, libraries and infrastructures, with full-time teachers, full-time workers and all gaps and above all with free higher education, without tuition - the SYRIZA Government has generalised tuition fees in postgraduate - and with full student care. What's all this? Will normality and common sense now come back, as the Minister said? What is that common sense? In its view, we want to create higher education institutions, integrated in test tubes, sterile with any social reference where they resolve and tie up, these universities will be seized by business groups and naval programmes and projects. And with the diagram, the falsification, the disorientation of asylum, you want to cover up the agreement between the urban parties, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK and the others, that the dominant role in the universities will be played by businesses. The business has him, when the universities are market universities. And not only in research, but also in which divisions they will be created and which curricula will have these sections that will be defined by companies. The changes in the Gabroglou just showed this point. NATO will perish in the financial research programmes for imperialist designs, with multiple speeds, with no right at all, with the collapse of student care and its privatization. Here the SYRIZA government took steps, leaps ahead of the privatisation of student care and its degradation. You have so much intolerance and allergy as a government for the rights of students and students, an article that existed within the consultation plan for students of tourist schools in Rhodes and Rethymno, who gave them a pass and you withdrew it and you don't talk about it. At the same time there is an article that increases the EOT's President's salary to the Secretary-General's salary. So here's what your intolerance is, your allergy to student, student rights and conquests. And, of course, there was and there is an institutional framework that can deal with felonies, crimes against life, but it does not apply. Why else? To facilitate these overturns that you bring to. Look at you: It is a pretext that universities are centres of lawlessness, that there are drug trafficking. Really, I drug her - culture who grows her? Aren't you and SYRIZA and other parties cultivating freedom of choice with controlled-use centres? It's - it says - a centre of interference. Truly, those who are the last wheel of the carriage are the problem and not the ones who are back and bring the containers from abroad, customsing them, having huge warehouses in the center of Athens and elsewhere and going to pick up those who sell the pratie? Why are you not dealing with the "big fish" of the blockage, the organised blockade, but do you have it as a pretext for enforcing the logic of law and order? The aim of this provision, which you bring, is clearly the organized student and mass movement. In this respect, therefore, the suppression of the organized student, labour and mass movement is precisely where the substance of the provisions you bring and, of course, take advantage of this action by the various hoodmen, the so-called unknown, but well known, their role and their provocative path - to confuse the asylum of all of them, because in history they were the conquesters' co-workers, they were the co-workers who were ashamed to take off their masks and hoods. Here there is a peculiar tolerance to the action of these groups by the state mechanisms, not to mention underground routes of these mechanisms with the repressive mechanisms. In this respect, the Friday's report, which identifies mobilisations with criminal offences and criminal acts, has paved the way for the abolition of asylum, the new Criminal Code of the SYRIZA Government which, while reducing penalties, only in two articles increases them, in Article 168 to disrupt the operation of services. So here's how MATs will interfere when a student mobilisation occurs within the university, with increased penalties and Article 292 for blocking traffic. However, the government of SYRIZA has recorded a high performance in the blow of rights, conquests, dealing with the repression of disciples, neo-liberals and labour mobilisations with apprenticeships and agro-industry. It is hypocritical that the statements made by the others on asylum are being made by other people. PASOK, of course, is clean. It wants the total abolition of asylum as it had done in 2011, and some other Members participated. But we have also heard scary issues. To get in - says - face control. You're about to ask to control the iris. But in essence they give you ideas not only from the right but also from the so-called left, such as Mr Varoufakis's proposal as a 'crowd'. What did he propose? He proposed - says - internal security body trained, uniformed and with all appropriate mechanisms to protect...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, will you use your dentistry as well?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u111	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u112	Good. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u113	To protect - says - the rights of academic freedoms. So here's how Mr. Varoufakis stands for reactionary changes in the field of universities, because there's allergy to mobilizations and claims, because you want law and order, cemetery silence and iron fist. But, Minister, the people tell us: 'The rod has two edges'. Don't forget. We say very clearly that this framework - a monster that you want to create, the student and labour movement will make it inactive. Here he opened a parable for the Law School of Patras and Article 65. Of course you are pressing on all this sloppy construction of the SYRIZA government for the creation of the legal school to abolish it. It's disgusting, because you're saying there's a lot of lawyers. Aren't you all right with private universities and their multi-creation? Were you not talking about disconnecting diplomas from professional rights as a fifth of your policy? And now that's why the pain has caught you? But it is simply not easy for some to be able to study close to their place. In essence, it is also challenging and pretext to deal with the Region of Western Greece and the Republican Authority, which suddenly found 40 million to give, when forty-five years the Architecture School of Patras has been operating in a container, when fifteen years now the half of the Student Restaurant of Patras is destroyed by the earthquake and half of the beds are out of operation. But in them, the voice of a oxen! Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I shall conclude, Mr President, with a very brief reference to the other articles. For the Committee on Competition, this whole debate is hypocritical. You want to cover up. At a time when major developments are taking place in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean Sea, with the immediate and even stronger intervention of the Americans and the Nato-Imperialists, we are talking about Ms Thanos and we are covering up the substance. Independent authorities. Who are these authorities independent from? Aren't some people appointed? But what's this squeeze of independent authorities? It is a pretext for the government to transfer responsibility to these independent authorities and for the government to play Pontius Pilate. And what better example is the example of press distribution agencies, the "ARGOS" and the "EUROPA". The Ministry of Labour in the Government of SYRIZA whistled indifferently and said: 'I have no competence to see the Competition Committee'. And what did the Competition Committee do? He fined some thousands of euros for the concentration he had. And it's questionable if he was paid. What was the point of what? Over a hundred employees of the Europa agency were unemployed on the road, owed to them, and at the same time the "APPOS" which took all the pie, applied flexible working relationships and contractors. So here is the essence of these policies and what the independent authorities do. It is precisely because these independent authorities are implementing the European Union's policy, which at its heart is to satisfy the needs of monopolies. And this is hypocrisy when all of you are in favour of the free market, which, with the ironic laws of the capitalist economy, leads to the concentration and concentration of production, the growth of businesses. And it's just that all these committees do are small-dimensions in the sharing of the pie between the economic sizes. So many years now, what have these committees been doing? They put any barrier to the price course? What was the result of the shrinking and violent displacement of self-employed and traders? But here is the law of his system that big fish eats the little one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end with this, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance. Of course you do not forget the gifts to business groups, such as Article 84 in the custom of the SYRIZA Government to delete fines from customs violations, despite the hypocritical attitude you were holding as opposition. Or the articles referred to in the Archaeological Service Certification Fund with the participation of individuals for the commercialisation of archaeological sites and their business use for profit purposes, making it even more difficult to visit and acquaint our archaeological and cultural heritage for popular strata. This is precisely the policy of the New Democracy Government. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I would like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u116	Let me announce something and I'll give you the floor later. I would like to announce a correction made by colleagues from the SYRIZA regarding their proposal to hold the roll-call vote. I now read the corrected application and say what they correct. "On the basis of Rule 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we Members signatory to this request shall request a roll-call vote on Articles 1 to 12." Their previous location was for Articles 1 to 16. That is to say, Article 16 becomes Article 12. In other words, it remains the same for Articles 64 and 65 and 101. We say this because Mr Janakopoulos yesterday, and it was written in the Minutes, he announced Articles 1 to 16. It's for Articles 1 to 12. The President of Mera25 has asked for the floor on personal grounds, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues of the JRC, we as Mera25 especially appreciate the way in which the Communist Party of Greece - and very effectively guards - the marches in the centre of Athens and other cities. You do it in an exemplary way, with your partners wearing armchairs, i.e. a form of uniform, discreet We, as a PARTA25, consider that the only way to avoid the abolition of asylum is to safeguard asylum, as you so well guard your actions in an organised manner. We believe that the university community has an obligation to safeguard itself, the property, the students, the student clubs with a service of protection, preservation, protection of university asylum, which is accountable only to the university community, the Republican authorities and the student associations. So please very much, given our appreciation in your own care tradition your characterisations are similar to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I would like to speak for a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u120	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u121	I was just referring to the report on the internal security of trained persons and equipment, which reminds me of university police. It is another thing how each place guards its rights and, of course, the protection of asylum lies with the workers and students' associations and not elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll only need thirty seconds. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, I would just like to clarify something. In fact, there was a provision for all students, the provision will be restored. The reason why he retired is to come in total on a grid and other rights in respect of students. So that's why he's withdrawn, he'll be in a more comprehensive arrangement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Kerameus. The Minister of State now has the floor, Mr. Kyriakos Pierracakis, for five minutes. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill of multiple items with a horizontal urgency, and because of the limited time I am going to go directly to the point. I begin by answering a question put by the Opposition regarding the design principles of the systems. What does design system principles mean? I'll use an example. In the United Kingdom, when Digital Service was established, the digital service there, the first thing they did was that they formed a text with ten authorities. They said what we do will obey ten values. I'm saying four tellers. Start with the user's needs. Do less. Make the systems open. Build digital services and not websites. And I know that that sounds very general, but it is of great value to be able to have such kinds of principles, because then you look at each system and ask if it obeys these principles and these design values. For example, if we look at the website of a Greek agency, take EVA, one will find that he does not obey these principles. So what should we do now? Why haven't we put them? We must set out what our principles are and begin to look at everything through this light. In this draft law in Article 47 in relation to data and in Article 48 we are talking about data management in relation to interoperability. And that is where we are starting from the first principle, because this text, which has been referred to in the committees, in the Digital Transformation Paper, where this is an internal work, a draft which we are formulating in the first place will then come out in the consultation when our work, called 'only once', only in English, only once. This starts with Estonia. What does that start? It says that every citizen should put the data into one system only once and then, in fact, inform one another, the citizen should not have the role of document servers. This is very difficult to achieve, it takes too much work to do. However, it must be the goal and the objective of the European Commission as a whole by imitating this good example of Estonia. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to allow me to comment on another part of this bill, namely Rule 64 on asylum. There is a symbolic contradiction here, a contradiction not of the legislator but of the national context. The contradiction is that, on the one hand, we come to regulate a forward standstill - because, let us have a delay in digital transformation, it is a symbolism, a 21st-century combination of what will be done with the country's digital systems - and on the other, we come to regulate a national unfinishedness, a Greek specificity of the 20th-century, asylum. The Greek university was the focus of the post-war Greek narrative. The children of the Civil and Occupation wanted to do one thing, study their own children. And these kids, theirs. And that's what we did. It was the social mobility strap of the country. But at the same time, Einstein's saying is also true: "life is like a bike. If you stop pedaling, you fall." The great conquest of Postpopulation was the consolidation of democracy at the place and the introduction of the country into the European core. The Greek democracy is mature and this was a conquest from all the wings of the Greek Parliament. What has been demonstrated by the economic crisis is that, after all, democracy is strong, it is mature. Democracy exists. What does that mean? It's guaranteed. You don't need asylum from this democracy. You don't need a wall from this democracy. You need any walls on the contrary. Let me share two brief stories with you. European capital. A foreign university. You're walking. You see at the entrance that there's security at the university and you see there's a card you need to get in. In the course you enter the room, you see he's basically clean. I'm talking about a certain university. You see that there are political youths in the space, of course, different from those we have in Greece in relation to how they operate. Interesting is not that story. The interesting thing is who the university was. The university was Nanterre's one where May 1968 began. It makes it an interesting example, because if the French who I think are distinguished for their revolution, for what ideas they produce and what ideological currents in their universities, they have been able to regulate it, I think we can regulate it too. Let me close with another story. May 2010. The most famous columnist of "NEW YORK TIMES" Thomas Friedman has come to Greece. He has met the political leadership at the time and writes an article. And he says "I will not look at economic sizes in Greece in the next few years, I will not look at spreads, the primary surpluses. I won't look at any of this. I will look at what the new Greeks do." And it ends up "if you see them leave, start selling Greek bonds. If you see them stay and some people go back, then it's time to start looking again at Greece and invest in it." China introduces artificial intelligence into her high school. Finland introduces artificial intelligence into her high school. Today, August 8, 2019, we are here to talk about asylum. We need to change for a century to some things. Let me finish by saying that this approach must be our compass over the coming years. The time of our self-reportance has expired. It is not just a question of economic reconstruction and economic recovery. It's a matter of substance. The Greek crisis must not turn into a Greek decline. In the year 2000, Greece had an economy, had GDP as much as it had all the Balkans if you doubled it. And today the Romanian economy is bigger than the Greek economy. And that means something. It reflects the responsibilities of all of us to overcome this situation. The only way to achieve this is to run fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Couvelas of New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from the Step of plenary I would like to thank my fellow citizens in Thessaloniki for the honour they have given me and the confidence they have shown me in the recent elections. I promise that with all my powers I will try to respond to this great responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the New Democracy and our officials persistently and firmly, especially in the last elections in May and July, promised above all normality. We have said that and we are doing that, ladies and gentlemen. The multi-brand plan that we are voting on today, the third in a few days, brings great changes in the daily life of the citizen in many areas. You are asking yourself, ladies and gentlemen, whether or not the arrangements under discussion are urgent. In your opinion, should towns and regions not work with their new administrations from 1 September? Aren't academic year going to start in a few days from September? Is it not a relief for our cancerous fellow citizens to save the tails of shame even one day earlier? Is it not necessary to get out as soon as possible the four hundred thousand pensions that have been unresolved for two or three years? Isn't it necessary for the digital state to start running directly, winning lost time? You are sadly surprised at your reaction that everything is happening very quickly. Well, they happen quickly and correctly because this mandate was given to us by the Greek people who were convinced by our proposal. I shall make a few comments on the bill. The Prime Minister and our resignation are known to be very locally friendly over time. We believe that it is a pillar of operation of the Greek state, an institution of local development and therefore a catalyst of the national economy. On the contrary, our colleagues in particular from Officerial Response, you see local government as a political tool to serve your purposes. Besides, citizens traditionally give you very small percentages of confidence in the municipalities. Today you are still insisting on the theorem of consensus and convergence in the administration of the municipalities, which is allegedly facilitated by your simple analogue. But you are forgetting the universal and absolute reaction of the mayors who, with one mouth, asked the minister responsible not to change the electoral law because it would dissolve local government because it would favour the transaction. But today you're acting like you don't see that there's a problem? How will it not work as many cities as they haven't been able to elect a mayor since the first Sunday? And it is not only the case of the second largest municipality in the country, Thessaloniki, which, in fact, I believe will find a solution to its problem through this regulation of the draft law. The case of Thessaloniki is characteristic, however. Ask us, too. We know something. There is also Mr Delis, who is still in attendance for a few days at the Thessaloniki Municipal Council. I would remind you that the new mayor has only seven in the forty-nine members of the Municipal Council. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] What's your problem? Don't you like the partnerships provided for in the bill? You don't like the mayor's resignation necessarily? So, she shouldn't be involved? How do you imagine? But partnership, isn't it? Communion doesn't presuppose? I will move on very quickly to a reference to the asylum regulation, which helps to substantially upgrade the university, improve and clean up the academic environment. This is how it becomes true hive of ideas, free thought and dialogue. This was one of the cleanest orders our government got. You know, in Thessaloniki, the city is often cut out in two as well as known - strangers, who of course have a name in our city, in their planned or extraordinary activities, since they're hampering the city's center, they're resorting to the university within a period of one or two minutes. I would also remind you that the Aristotle University had become an outbreak of public health infection when known - unknown ones did not allow cleaning workshops to do their job. They did exercise physical violence and the students who voluntarily attempted to do so. The world heritage monument, Rotonda, is located in two hundred meters from the university.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u128	Colleague, we all have to keep our time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u129	I shall conclude in seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u130	Fifty colleagues, political leaders and ministers are missing. Please, make all the speeches adjust to five minutes. Thank you. Mr Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u131	You are right, Mr President, I shall conclude immediately. So Rotunda is in two hundred meters from the university, in a very densely populated area of Thessaloniki, where there are actually guns and knifes, among the gangs of foreign traffickers heavy evidence of drug trafficking. You know, as soon as the police make their appearance, they immediately resort to the university. I conclude by saying that this regulation on university asylum will obviously not give the competent authorities the right to be dissatisfied, but will enable young people in particular to enjoy clean and safe universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too. Mr. Theodorikos has the floor to table some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u133	I would like to say, Mr President, four legislative improvements. The two are the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. You can see them, and if there is a detailed question, I am at the disposal of colleagues. One is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and one of the Ministry of Education and I ask Mrs Kerameau to explain it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u134	They must be read, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u135	Mrs. Kerameau has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Just one clarification. We are tabling a legislative provision in Article 64(3), which is now made as follows: ‘The public authorities shall exercise all their powers under the law, including the intervention by means of criminal offences’. We have changed the 'competent authorities' to 'public authorities' and we have already clarified that these powers are in addition to whatever powers the Republican authorities have by law from other legislation. So the Republican authorities already have competences, here we are talking about the public authorities, which will now exercise their powers within the premises of the IOIs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u137	Good, thank you. To be submitted and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Georgiadis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Three issues concern our ministry, I'll say the quickest, to stay at the zeon at the end. First theme. As you know, we have tabled an amendment concerning housing services of the General Secretariat, Technology Research. I would particularly like to thank the Deputy Minister, Mr Dimas, who has worked very hard on this, and he is here to provide any additional clarifications he needs, ladies and gentlemen, and I would also like to congratulate him, because within less than 20 days he has found a solution with the Prime Minister's Secretariat on a matter that, as you all know, has been a long time ago. The General Secretariat of Research Technology has been housed for many years in a building which did not meet the needs of the General Secretariat. The protests from the officials were too many and we decided to act critically and decisively. A building, therefore, the Central Building of Horse is transferred from the supreme to the use of the General Secretariat of Research Technology. We save almost 400,000 euros a year, we provide employees with a modern working environment worthy of a secretariat which you and Mr. Tsipras in his speech described as of great importance for the Greek state. So a chronic problem of many years is solved by this particular amendment. Please vote for it and not fight for it. Now the second thing about our Ministry is asylum. The asylum in what sense, however, mayor? In the sense of impediment. As you know, the Ministry of Development has the power to step on the blockade. And I wonder to those colleagues who do not vote on the amendment by the Minister of Education, Mr Keramou, on asylum, what exactly you propose to do with the blockade, for example in Patisia, Mr Kamine. You ruled as Mayor and saw them. You have been there for many years, you know that it is so and I regret that you have come with an ideal in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u140	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u141	What about whoever walks there today? They're spread over the sidewalks. Spread all illegal products all smuggled products. The people who sell them, Mr. Scandalides, are through the bars. No matter how many times we send the competent authorities to control the barrier, what do these people do? They take a step back and smile at the audit bodies, since no one can cross the university's door, either arrest people for the blockage, confiscate the products or do anything else. So all the debate we're having is a debate of people who just don't want to consult human beings. It is quite obvious that when a state body is going to control the embargo and is in Patisia, it should be able to go in and hunt and arrest those who make the embargo. Unless you want to protect smugglers. Only so can your obsession with the abolition of asylum be explained in the way it was before! Because, of course, there is absolutely no change in the defence of academic freedom. Let me speak from the general point of view that talking about free movement of ideas in Greek universities is almost funny. Not to say for myself that I cannot go to any Greek university to speak without escorting police and military forces, otherwise they will burn me alive. They'll burn me alive if I go to college today. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] That's why I haven't been in years under threats that if I go in, they'll burn me down. Please one of you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u142	If you remove the asylum, will you go?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u144	Do you accept, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, the fact that people like me can't get into college, yes or no? Do you accept it or do you hear it for the first time? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] So don't talk to me about free movement of ideas because you're liars and hypocrites. There's no free movement of ideas at university today! There's the violence of the extreme left that when someone's not good to them, they beat him, they burn him, they beat him, they beat him to death. And that's not an asylum of ideas. That's an asylum of violence! Anyone who doesn't say that with honesty is a liar! Let's get this over with. So the Minister is doing very well and brings - what? - the real defence of freedom of ideas in academic institutions! Because today there is no real freedom to defend ideas in Greek universities! Today there are groups of people who practice physical violence, and with this physical violence they control the entire university. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And I'm closing. I have listened very carefully, following the debate we had in the committee - not to say the same - to interviews made by the President of the Committee on Competition against our legislation on the matter of the Competition Committee. And I just want to say: I have listened very carefully to her claim that she has no party identity. In her first argument that all Presidents of the Ice Bay have been chosen by a government - so saying that he was chosen as President of the Ice Bay by Mr. Tsipras, that would mean that all Presidents of the Ice Bay are partyly controlled by anyone who chose them - the answer is very simple and obvious: Ladies and gentlemen, not all the Presidents of the Ice Bay have been chosen from position nine to one. Mrs Thanos had the provocative favor of Mr. Tsipras, as in the original choice. She went past eight of her worthy colleagues to get that position, precisely because Mr. Tsipras wanted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u145	Minister, please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u146	Secondly, his favor to Mrs Thanos continued, when immediately after the end of her term of office, and after trying to violate the Constitution very much to change age limits, to stay longer in the Argentine Ice, he appointed it directly to the Prime Minister's office. And then, while it was now certain that the government was leaving - because the polls were known to us all and the will of the Greek people was now evident to everyone - you appointed it by the universal reaction of the House, except at the time of the Golden Dawn, to a position of independent authority for many years. So justly claiming that someone, who has this favor from a particular party in the past, cannot be matched by a party, I'm sorry, but it's outrageous. And her point of view that she doesn't give up anything that happens...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u147	Minister, please finish. We've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u148	I'm closing down, but that's a matter that's been dealing with the House for five days. Wait a minute. It's not all the same. The fact that Mrs Thanos says everywhere: 'I do not give up any law, nor do I have any rights to vote', I am sorry, but it is almost deplorable. To state publicly a man, "how many laws and to vote for me do not concern me", who loves his chair so much to declare it, forgive me, should be absolutely condemned as an expression from the Greek Parliament. Unless you want to say, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that without Mrs Thanos the Greek state does not operate and that she is the only irreplaceable in the entire Greek public administration. So, to close it, there is no photographic form of the provision, as we have explained enough. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Mr. Janakopoulos, don't challenge me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u149	Minister, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u150	You know, your love for the Constitution, when you're the government with the world record of anti-constitutional laws in court, it really goes beyond me. You brought the Pappa law and it was considered unconstitutional in court. Paulakis ripped out the hospital governors and they've all been vindicated and they're getting thousands of euros compensation for the persecutions he made them. Now sit down and make suggestions to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u151	Minister, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u152	To finish, I'm telling you the layout isn't photographic. Photographic was the appointment of Mrs Thanos from you. You also violated the European directive and the Constitution, because while the Constitution and the European directive were calling for a politically impartial committee, you nominated not only Mrs Thanos, for whom I explained earlier, but the half central committee of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u153	Please, Minister, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u154	If you think that we don't see it or that the Greek people don't know it you're making a big mistake. So this amendment will be passed and implemented. And because I have heard Mrs Thanos say, "I do not give up", I tell you to know that just with the good publication of the Law in the Glossary of the Official Journal, there will immediately be an act of credentials to go home. And as a citizen, let us claim what rights he thinks he has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u156	Wait a minute, Mr. Kamine. You're probably asking for the floor on staff, because according to today's procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u157	When will the list continue, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u158	Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen. If we continue to speak with Mr Kamine, Mr Janakopoulos, and this whole case continues - I want to tell the House - the procedure will go by 22.00. I have no problem with it, but I want to let you know. There are still fifty colleagues. It is the Prime Minister to speak, as you can see, the heads of the parties. Mr Kamine, Mr Janakopoulou, if you wish - because you will only ask for the floor on personal grounds - to proceed with the procedure so that Members can speak. But if you insist that you want the floor on staff, I can do nothing but give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u160	Here, Mr Kamine, you have the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, if there is anyone who has repeatedly denounced the situation that prevailed as mayor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u162	Explain to the House what the staff are made up of.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u163	Please address the Bureau, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u164	Explain to the Bureau, which consists of staff under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Haracopoulou, Mr. Kamines has a minute to explain the staff. Go on, Mr. Kamine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u166	Repeatedly as Mayor of Athens, I pointed out that the situation in the university of all three educational institutions in the centre of the city is unacceptable. What we are proposing, by means of the provision we have tabled, is that in order for every act of criminal law to be able to interfere with public power without any licence from a university authority. This covers the criminal offence both inside and outside the university. I've suffered a lot from the traffic jam that was throwing things in and they went and they were hiding in when the police showed up. But that was on the basis of a provision which, while you also voted for, the Diamantopoulou Act, the government in which you participated, Mr Georgiadis, never entered the university, the police in order to prevent what was happening. Remember that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, I will not deal with this House to respond to the Minister who, after all, likes the strife. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr. Janakopoulos. Mr John - Michael Loverdos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the elections are over. The climate of exaggeration, tension, fanaticism, which prevalently prevailed and which I may not be able to take part in, is over. We are now in a very difficult and critical phase in which the country must be governed and effectively governed. I'm afraid some people still haven't noticed. You know, at my sixty years I didn't decide after thirty-five years in journalism to get into politics to make a career as you know, but why our country is in danger and some still don't want to realize it. Greece is not a normal European country, and we hope that it will be done, so we must all fight. Can we do it? Yeah, it's up to us, of course, if we all start acting the way we really are. The MPs are the servants of the people, they are not his masters. The Greek people elected three hundred MPs, from the Prime Minister to the last MP, namely me, we are his servants and we must serve him and we must serve him effectively. The government this week brought two very important bills, in my opinion. He brought it in the form of an emergency. We should perhaps have an exhaustive debate. I will agree with this with the opposition, we should have more time to talk about it, but we do not have the luxury of time. We don't have the luxury of time. Greece has been suffering, Greece has been tested for a decade and can be tested for many years in the future if we do not now make the changes that need to be made. These two legislations bring about a great deal of change in what must finally be done, as far as the party state is concerned, which, in fact, all the governments of the past, including the New Democracy and the PASOK and SYRIZA, supported by the party state. Great changes must be made to the way the public administration operates, which is the great patient in our country over time, and not just now. There must be very big changes in our educational system, in the way universities operate. I regret to say that SYRIZA - and I am not referring to the individual speeches of some colleagues, I am not referring to the speech by Mr Zuraris 'Extreme Clazomenians Civilis', but rather to the views expressed by the party's leadership, which is from the Honorable Chief of Staff, Mr. Tsipras and his parliamentary representatives - rather than entering into the essence of these legislations has remained in the picture. So it is important that the professional future of respectful in everything, Mr. Thanos, but it is not the greatest. Importantly, if he has documented or not, if Mr. Condolone's degree has been recognized, but it is not the major. The major is what kind of universities we want for our children. And I directly ask all of you, all of you, and answer within you: Are you proud of the image that exists today in ASAP, one of the world's best economic universities? Are you proud of the picture that exists today in law school? Are you sending your children pleasantly to these universities? No, of course not. And we're talking about two of the universities that could be one of the best in Europe. Are you proud of the way public administration works? No, of course not. The suffering for the student who does not have a university the way he wants - does not matter whether he is a symbolist, a neo-democratic, a communist or anything else - is the same for everyone - the suffering for the citizen whether he is a Syrian or a neo-democratic, or a communist, or I don't know what else, is the same for everyone. We will be judging - and we must judge - the government from its effectiveness with regard to these legislation which now brings to Parliament. I will judge Mr Pierracakis if he succeeds - and I wish it out of my heart - in making Greece Estonia. Why has Estonia been what has been done and we have been here for so many years then cannot be done? Why did Estonia come out of the collapse of the Soviet Empire today become a model country? Why is Romania that came out of the Tsaucescu regime, today developing at a faster rate than Greece? Why? Why can't we do what they do? The self-evident thing, unfortunately, in Greece is not self-evident and we need to change that. Respecting time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much Mr. Loverdo. I hope the rest of us will keep up with the time. Mr. Ioannis Paschalides from New Democracy has the floor. Please, Mr. Passalides, and you can be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill the Government of Mitsotakis demonstrates the fastest reflexes in dealing with issues of major importance, first and foremost with the regulations on TA I and Second Grade, on the one hand, the weaknesses resulting from the implementation of the simple actorial and, on the other, the role of municipal and regional councils is strong. In practice, councils are upgraded, as well as being exempt from abuses and the conditions are created for constructive dialogue, since the opposition, in order to reject acts of the Board's competence, such as the budget, has to submit a reasoned opinion with information from the municipality or region's own services. In particular, the possibility of involving municipal and regional classes, including the mayor's or district mayor's, is introduced, while at the same time ensuring the majority of the mayor's and the regional director's in the Committee on Economic Affairs and all the legal persons of the Local Government's I and 2 Degree bodies. The provisions that support the creation of a true Ministry of Digital Governance for the transformation of the public administration and the country's economy are of paramount importance for the efficient functioning of the state. In particular, this is a number of provisions simplifying procedures and introducing eGovernment practices. And at this point I would like to mention: It is characteristic that five years ago exactly when Kyriakos Mitsotakis was Minister for Administrative Reform, a special report was received from the Secretary-General of the OECD, which measured the administrative cost for the economy due to bureaucracy at EUR 6 billion per year. However, this estimate of 3% of GDP is perhaps less than real, as it is limited to thirteen selected sectors of the economy and does not include daily transactions of millions of citizens. Other surveys even raised 6% of GDP the administrative cost. Through this bill, the current government aims to create a public which operates in the standards of the European Union's institutionally developed countries. Thus, the public for the first time assumes the responsibility for communication between the services, instead of charging the citizen the unnecessary obligation to stand in line to collect certificates with seals and signatures. Noteworthy and the regulation laid down in Article 72, which provides for a reduction in the interest rate on debts in the insurance funds from 5% to 3%, as has already been done for tax debts at an interest rate, i.e. ensuring both the viability of enterprises and households as well as consistent monitoring and payment of the settlement instalments together with the payment of the current contributions. With this reduction for the first time, the interest rates on government debtors’ arrangements are balanced at the level of the legitimate interest rate and the interest rate of late payment and apply to public debts vis-à-vis citizens. Of the utmost importance and the provisions of the Ministry of Health referred to in Articles 74 to 83 of this bill, which, in addition to the remaining aims, aim to put an end to the queues of shame in the EEA pharmacies, given that the distribution of high-cost medicines and neighbourhood pharmacies for citizens is now allowed. Also, under the cooperation agreement between the EEAS and private clinics, which will be signed within the next few days, chemo therapy preparations for the insured in private clinics will be received by the EEAS pharmacies under the responsibility of the clinical authorities, contrary to the current situation, which oncology patients who were planning their chemotherapy in a private clinic had to take the medicine from the EEA Pharmacopoeia themselves. I have deliberately left my reference to my present position in the most important article in this bill, which is no more than Article 64, for which I would like to express my deepest satisfaction as an instructor, firstly by stressing that the problems with asylum in universities after the transfer were not due to unjustified interventions by the police, as many have sought to present, but to arbitrary groups that systematically devastate asylum and have transformed universities into asylum. Unfortunately, the legal safeguarding of university asylum as a historical response to the violence and repression of the april dictatorship has only responded to the constitutional purpose for which it was supposed to have been established. In time, the institution of university asylum not only promoted academic freedom but led to de facto catalysts and, therefore, by amending the existing provisions, the protection of university spaces will be implemented in two stages. On the one hand, by reintroducing sound, modern asylum legislation and, on the other, by demonstrating zero tolerance to infraction and diversion, which sends in all respects the government's message of inappropriate law enforcement. The political will of the New Democracy is clear: violence and lawlessness have no place in universities, as the Minister for Education pointed out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Tyloridou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, even if I wanted to admit that the new variant of the New Democracy seeks to meet the demands of the new social reality, I honestly cannot argue with this bill. Is it a social need to concentrate powers at the beginning of one? Is it, therefore, the imposition of a political centralisation need, demand and demand for society? Is this concentration of powers once in the Prime Minister's face with the so-called draft law on the final state and sometimes in the face of the regional or mayor, with the bill being discussed today, correcting the pathogens of a system that really needs change? Is that modernisation? Is that a reform? Is this a prerequisite for a new dynamic relationship between civil servants and civil society? Is this a choice leading to the activation and emancipation of citizens? Is this the service of decentralisation? Is that, uh, visionary for the Greek people? It's not. In both bills that have come to the Greek Parliament over the last few days, it is obvious that the effort to transform institutions into closed castes to highlight the "authorities" into the Orthodox political power that bears absolute truth. It's the old recipe that led us to the unreliability of the political system. It's the old recipe that led us to economic and social bankruptcy. It's the attempt to hold the same old establishment. We in local government, for example, brought a law with which we wanted to activate the whole of the citizens, a law that valued every vote and participated in the formation of our common future in each social group. You're tearing this down today, because you don't want a manipulated society. You want a manipulated society. You remove responsibilities from the municipal council and transfer them to committees such as the economic committee controlled by the mayor. The recipe and the example come from old. We have many examples of municipalities with this dominance-centre model that is being strengthened today even more with a similar uncontrolled system that owes dozens and hundreds of millions of euros. And that is what you call reform and you want to bring it back. The evil with you, ladies and gentlemen, is not that you are right. That's your right. The bad news is you don't learn from the mistakes you made in the past, mistakes that went bankrupt and repeat them. You repeat standards of power that undermine political pluralism in the name of an elitist ideology. You do the same with the universities. After undermining the concept of asylum, after dispersing the fear of lawlessness into society, you come today and say that this law is the source of all evils. I would like to tell you a distinct example from my constituency, Kastoria. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. When, under the Gabroglou law, we managed to make five university departments - which I hope, Madam Minister, you will not abolish - and two two two-year sections - which, unfortunately, you do - have to abolish - you know what your arguments have been about local society? "What should we do with it? We don't need them. Shall we bring them in to increase crime?' That is the respect and appreciation you have in the new generation! That is the respect and appreciation you have in the rectoral authorities! And he can, he says, because you only have confidence in the anonymous phone calls that will be able to call the police to invade the university, which leads us to events in the 1950s and 60s, where one citizen could denounce another that he is a communist, for example, to run the police to collect him and send him out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u175	Mrs. Tyloridou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u176	That's where you had preventive action. But know that the crisis and the perception of all of us are not limited to this Chamber, it is also the crisis and the perception of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Tyloridou. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, today's interministerial bill, like the previous one for the final state, despite heavy and misleading titles, is moving into a very concrete and, in our view, very distinct. He's got clear targets. What are these objectives? How to shield a series of institutions of this rotten system, the rotten state, the appropriate laws and the proper staff. And that, of course, applies to everything, whether we are talking about ministries and municipalities, or about universities, about sectors of social services and others. You seek, through these laws and the people you place in various positions of responsibility, the most comfortable, the most undisturbed implementation of the sovereign anti-grassroots policy, namely the policy that the New Democracy Government today inherited from its predecessors, SYRIZA, and also from its ancestors, and which as a classic neoliberal urban party in the country, the New Democracy wants to expand even further. And you're really in a hurry about this. You see, you want to satisfy the infamous institutions, the groups in particular, who are pushing you for fast track procedures, as they did with the previous ones. You are concerned and showing it about how the notorious doctrine of "law and order" will be consolidated even more. And of course, above all, you are concerned about how to curb the action of the working people's movement, the struggles of the people and youth that will strengthen in the coming years, no matter what you do, any reactionary laws you vote on. Because regardless of what you say about the famous sustainable recovery, you also know very well - and the staff that you are recommending these laws - that the period we are experiencing is a period of weak, unstable recovery. It is a period of new risks for a more profound and synchronised economic crisis in the future, it is a period of intense competition globally. So to say things with their name you take your measures so that the political system is as shielded as possible against popular pressure, against popular claim, in a possible further exacerbation of class struggle. The provision, for example, for the abolition of academic asylum forms part of this framework. And not accidentally, both pre-electionally and post-electionally, you flagged the academic asylum that was a conquest of the movement, precisely to mark the intensity of the repression of authoritarianism that goes hand in hand with your anti-popular policy. You start with asylum because you think it is easier for you to start with a conquest of the people and youth, which has been slandered over the years and has been brutally twisted, abused because of the action of certain mechanisms, gangs that have absolutely nothing to do with the student movement. And you know that very well, because all these years they have been acting with tolerance or with the affection of governments and the state, sometimes even with their guidance, any party, of the sinful doubles that have ruled over all these years, has been in the government dormant. What you say about the fight against crime, of lawlessness is just pretexts, pretexts in sin. Why didn't you flag the fight against organised crime in various regions of Athens, Attica, where neither asylum nor university institutions are found and therefore, according to your logic, did you not have any obstacles? It's just because these areas aren't offered for your friends' investment, so it's convenient for you to push crime into these more degraded areas, ghetto, literally. Why didn't you flag your fight against infraction in the workplace, where big-time work has really unleashed, where it even violates this lack of labour legislation and every day comes to light incidents of terrorism, criminal behaviour of employers against our fellow workers, such as the recent incident in Corfu? And don't tell us it's the exception. If they saw the light of publicity all that was really happening, we would say that it is now the norm, but your way and your practices tell us that capitalist investment needs this very working middle age. So something else is behind your insistence on asylum. It hides that at the "University of Anonymous Society" you are building, you require cemetery silence to apply, without any hindrance, the policy that promotes business activity, the policy that fully requires the development of science and research to the needs of the capitalist economy. [[Mr KONSTANTINOS TASULAS, President-in-Office of the Council, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council]] Of course, this university - business - served both the previous governments and SYRIZA, who had given asylum to the major economic and business interests to perpetuate within the universities. Asylum, of course, for big businessmen and their maximum profitability exists in local bodies, such as municipalities and regions. This business activity, profitability, you served it, you all serve it with the restructurings that each of you has carried out, no matter whether you are fighting today for the so - called dominance of the municipalities. We remind some of us that the analogue we voted on in the municipalities and regions, but SYRIZA, who currently tears up his clothes for the mayor's model, has brought it back to the ground again, and has brought it back to the ground, because he left the election of the mayors and the districters out of proportion. As for the Government of the New Democracy, now weeping over the so-called sovereignty of the municipalities, it knows very well that no power will exist because in the memorial laws that all of them apply in full, there are all those security differences and there are many, first and foremost the Economic Observatory. They guarantee and ensure their governmentality, that is, the anti-popular functioning of the municipalities. This anti-population function of the municipalities was even strengthened further in previous years by the SYRIZA government. The "KLITHENIS" of SYRIZA, such as the "KALIKROATIS" and the "KOPTRIA" of PASOK, came to better adapt the municipalities to the needs of capitalist development, and this objective is common to all urban parties and when the law of "CLISTEN" was passed now. So, with the exception of the electoral system, in all its basics, 'CLISTEN', which is essential to our people, you all agree. You agree with the view to the business features of the municipalities that "KLITHENIS" brought, causing the local government to operate either as self-employed enterprises, providing even more for the services they provide to the people, or with all kinds of partnerships with business groups. You agree with the basic aim of "CLISTED" their main revenues, the municipalities to draw them directly from the municipal pockets in the sense of recompense, and thus the state grant to go down to a mere supplementary aid only as long as it is necessary to balance the budgets of the municipalities. In fact, the New Democracy goes further than its proposal for the transfer of ENPIA, this unfair tax, to the municipalities. Instead of abolishing him here and now, as all the hard taxpayer Greek people demand, it makes the municipalities enforce him. You all agree with the arrangements regarding the so-called real estate of the local authorities, with which the road opens to the so-called investors to exploit long-term on robbery terms, thereby effectively selling any municipal property. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we have again witnessed the same fight between SYRIZA and New Democracy. It was a misguided, meaningless fight, taken out of the past, a shadow fight, who hampered the state, who appointed more poster, who served more different of his businessmates, who is responsible for the issues of Mrs Thanos's type and other relatively disorientative issues. It doesn't make us any impression. It is very logical that you should go to various issues of mismanagement, corruption, which, of course, are not of no importance, but are raised by you for deafness only, since your confrontation on the substance does not go on the ground, precisely because your strategic targeting in the economy, in the management model you choose, has the same upper-down features, with individual differences, with different slogans, from a different path perhaps, but ends up in the same anti-grass and bad for the people. Even on individual issues in today's bill you agree. Take, for example, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which has become so dormant. Any changes made by the New Democracy do not substantially alter the provisions adopted by SYRIZA, and even presently, for election purposes. They are provisions which introduce a number of reactive institutions, such as the criminal conciliation, which favour economically powerful, into the criminal proceedings, which affect the brutal procedural rights of the accused, particularly those who have no money to defend their right. They are provisions that preserve and strengthen institutions that jeopardise democratic freedoms, such as the terrorist law, the reception and processing of citizens' DNA, but also other problematic provisions that we have denounced from here the Step and which lead to a horizontal reduction in all penalties, even for serious felonies. They are provisions affecting very serious cases, such as the trial of the Nazi criminal gang of the Golden Dawn, various other economic scandals, but also recently the unacceptable release of Corkonea where the new Criminal Code was used by judges. So here's where you agree on the basics. First you vote for them and then you come to denounce them, when you were in the Opposition before New Democracy, now SYRIZA. I heard Mr Tsipras in his speech last few days talking about the right-wing state, just as PASOK used to speak. Of course the New Democracy is the birth party - nourishment of the great capital in our country, which proposes the doctrine of 'law and order'. He always chose to promote the whip against the people in relation to the carrot, which you choose. But you also use the auction whip and you used it during your term of office, especially, of course, only against the organized labour, trade union, agricultural, student and student movement. After all, it is well known to all of us that the sinful social democracy in Greece, PASOK in the past, whose SYRIZA has now become the main contributor, the main expressor, has implemented such a policy and with the agreement of the New Democracy. Who started the well-known farmhouses all over Greece? Who introduced the terrorist laws? Who abolished the asylum at universities in 2011? In fact, we have to say that many Members, former ministers, are now in today's opposition officer's party, who in 2011, as PASOK MPs, have voted to abolish the asylum by the Diamantopoulou Act. And to go to the most recent, who brought the striker law two years ago? So we're telling you enough about the hypocrisy and the alleged innocence of social democracy. The New Democracy today would not have been able to project this most authoritarian reactionary model of governance in any case if the four-year period of SYRIZA had not been prior to it. SYRIZA was the one with the conclusion of left-wing values and ideals, with the undermining of any radicalism, with the legitimisation of all the anti-grassroots - supposedly one-way, from the memoirs to the cheques and designs of the European Union and NATO, by depositing the markets, privatizations, supposedly challenging capitalist investment and so many others, canceled positive processes, positive radical reflexes that existed within our people, the movement and thus allowed New Democracy to appear today with the flag of iron coexistence in the implementation of the strategy that the capital needs. This is how the game of the two-party rotation and the mockery of the Greek people is played by both of them. I'm closing up with this. In the first communication of our party's central committee following the elections on 7 July we made the assessment that the government's rotation does not express a real political change, is moving in the broader context of the pursuits of the ruling class for a more planned intervention, with the aim of armoring the governance system, with greater efficiency and stability in the face of possible future risks arising from economic recovery, capitalist recovery and the more acute imperialist competition that is escalating in our region, but also in the wider sense. These iceberg bills serve this very objective, because you know - we repeat it - that there are situations before us that can bring about even greater political instability. We say that the Greek people must not only fear this instability but must be fully aware of it now and with a clear mind and thought, with the great experience it has gained, take advantage of it to definitively overthrow this barbaric policy, this rotten state, this corrupt exploitation system. Then there will also be the real relief of the people, the breath of life for all and not just the few drones.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u179	The President of Greece, Mr Velopoulos, has asked for the floor for a moment's intervention. Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u180	The strict rules apply to everyone, Mr President. It's okay, but I'm gonna need five minutes, not more. I'm starting to say this. SYRIZA started a story with a handkerchief piece in relation to local government. That's true. And he clearly started it, because he knew he was going to lose the election. What bothers me most is that this bill you brought, Prime Minister, is not what we expected. You're talking about decentralisation, you're talking about a lesser state, because you're not a prisoner. You are, however, creating dozens of committees and departments that are in the bill that are recorded. I cannot understand why you are doing this, a man who is against the state of state. I imagine that the anguish of some of our own people from the narrow partisan tube, from the narrow party environment, is an anguish of a leader, but this cannot become a brake on the state and Greece. It also provides a position for embossment, Prime Minister. Listen to the term 'engineering of forms' in Article 33. Look for a little bit at it, because if there's an employee to embezzle literature at the time of e-government, as you say, something is wrong with either one or the other. With Article 60, the Hellenic Space Station is abolished and the Hellenic Space Centre is established. I don't understand why you're changing one to put another? There was. Mr. Pappas did it. Is this Mr. Pappas? He built the satellites, we're going to space now. You just change title. Article 86 smells too much for toys. You're talking about Game Control. Consider this a little, because if we fill Greece with slots and casinos, like the Greek one, then society is lost, Prime Minister. Karl Marx said and I address the left: "The dominant ideas of every time were the ideas of her ruling class." Today, unfortunately, Greece is suffering from a dreadful syndrome. When the Left or the so-called Left speaks, all the rest must remain silent. And I say it to you. You have a terrific asylum syndrome. You're afraid to put the knife honestly on the bone. I'm asking you a question. Is the molotovs, the lump, the shawl, the knife? He's inside the Polytechnic, inside the ASAE. They're being arrested by the police, they're pulling them out, they're taking them to the interrogator, they're being released. They'll go back in the next day for occupation, the police will take them back, go back to the interrogator, go back to the university. If the Criminal Code does not change, if you do not change with strict penalties to the asylum retreater, we will have the same thing, 'police tours', the police will become a travel agency. I'm telling you this to know what's going on around us, Prime Minister, because I don't believe this asylum story needs to find us to disagree. Because when illegal acts are carried out on a continuous basis and relapse, the legislator must be strict. Molotov is a murderous manual, it's a crime, a perfection. The heel, the knife, is an instrument that can create life loss. What can we do now? We live in the 21st century, we don't need asylum. Democracy does not need asylums, there is no reason, gentlemen, to speak of asylum. Democracy is, we don't have another city. If we had a dictatorship of the proletariat, I'm sure the asylum would be better in this town, I imagine. It would have been much better to move ideas at that time. Let's actually go. Mercedes. I heard something plausible. "Why don't the police go," he says, "in marginal and regional cities and communities to hit illegality, in western districts, etc.''.'. Because the police aren't going there to let the A.S.O.E.L.E.L.D. get the law out of the way, wrath the traffic and the illegality! That doesn't make sense. In both cases the police must intervene perfectly and without delay. You must, Prime Minister, change the legal framework. It has to be changed. I don't know, Mr. Theodorikos, if you've seen it personally. It has to be changed. You're going to make them the assholes. You will take them as with Ruvikon. You're gonna take a walk. Because it's a faulty thing to do. Let's go to the rest. The House's Scientific Service itself says that the abolition of asylum is a constitutional one. I do not understand why it is unconstitutional and why we need to discuss asylum. We're going to something I heard to close. He said a Minister of the New Democracy - I will not go into his name so that he does not take the floor, Mr President - that SYRIZA made bad choices and the officials vindicated in the courts were compensated. It's a truth. He put committees or put people in court, and they were entitled to the courts and they were compensated. If Mrs Thanos is justified in the courts, gentlemen, and calls for hundreds of thousands of euros, who will pay, the Minister or the New Democracy for its compensation? With the Greek people's money, will some people play in here, put their own people, take them out, put them back in and pay compensation to the courts? Is that the right governance? And you are now forcing us, because we know that you are morally right in relation to the position of Mrs Thanos, who is skeptical, is the one with "NOVARTIS" etc., to say "residents", when you do the following crime. You don't take them all off, take off one, which is contrary to you, and you're going to have to say 'the present', make the Solomons. Why? Because you're right, too, Mrs. Thanos has. According to law, European law is above Greek, perfection and dash. Stop legislating on the basis of your party interest. Mercy! We don't like one, we take him out, we like someone else. Of course we're going to the latter. I'll insist. I will not get tired of asking you all the time, especially the government, but also the other parties. Why don't you talk about national issues in here? Why don't we talk about operating? Why don't we talk about 'Yavuz', why is it forbidden? Why are you all avoiding it in here? Don't you know what's going on in Cyprus? Don't you know what Turkey can do after the 15th century? Don't you know that he can bring a drill to twenty or thirty nautical miles? Why don't we talk in here? You're all talking about Thanos. Thanos is our problem? Finally, Mr President - and I apologise - I shall say this. Yesterday there was a performance from the middle of Skopje for a banner that PAOK fans raised and they would resort to FIFA, which said “Macedonia is only here”. They have broken, Prime Minister, the Ambassadors' agreement tens of times. I have not seen one step by the Greek Government for a month. She's been violated. Their tourism organization, the state, keeps saying "Macedonia", does not say Northern Macedonia. Why don't you take a walk? Why don't you do something? Did you get that, too? Have you swallowed everything? And I wonder why you were telling us that you disagree with the Ambassadors' agreement. I heard you with my ears. And you were only talking about identity and language. It's a good deal to agree. Why do you put me in partners that were in agreement with the Embassy Agreement? Listen, it's today's fruit. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Vellopoulou, it's more than half a minute. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u182	It's all right, Mr. President. When it's bothering some things, it's a lot, I know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u183	It's annoying the breach of time. Keep the time and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u184	And the previous one violated the hours, but you're being held by a fearful syndrome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u185	Invoking the immunity is not a reason for our own immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u186	All right, I'm saying this and I'm closing here. Why do you put Mr. Dragon-wolve on me? I don't know him. It's, it says, LGATKI, it's a river. You put him, he says, in modern culture, a new Secretary-General of Modern Culture. A new Secretary-General of Modern Culture, a representative of the LGBTKI - I am not concerned with that, your right - but he wrote articles in favour of the Prespecies Agreement. How do you put him there? How do you put him? I'm not talking to any of you. Prime Minister, I don't know if you disagree with the Ambassadors' agreement. Your choices, however, show that you may agree in depth. And I'm sorry about that, because I thought you were telling us. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u187	Thank you. The Member, Evangelos Liakos, of the New Democracy, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position I should like to thank my fellow citizens who trusted me in their representation. For all of us the moment is historic, as this is the first time that the West Attica region is represented autonomously in the Greek Parliament. Personally, I am very optimistic that the country will stand up again, that logic will demolish and that normality will return to everyday life. That is because this is the first time in the country's political time, which the government has been applying more than it has made in the electoral process. I am honoured to have the opportunity, in my maiden appearance in the Greek Parliament, to vote for the healthy application of asylum to the Greek universities. As the youngest Member of Parliament, I am the one who may have the most recent student memories. Having passed three Greek public universities, I know firsthand how asylum is applied and what purposes it ultimately serves. The students have been afflicted at times, as our universities have turned themselves into bulwarks of violence and lawlessness. The incidents are very well known. Within seven years from 2011 to 2017 a total of three hundred fifty-seven cases of lawlessness in nineteen educational institutions, according to a survey conducted by the University of Macedonia from February to May 2018. This is a reality that few people no longer want to admit. These few, but also those who promote asylum for the free movement of ideas, are more or less concerned with the enforcement of their own ideas. Destructive and revolutionary ideas are not cultivated when violence and trabukism are on the agenda, in many cases not by groups of students but by off-school violations. Why else can I relate to the fact that only in the universities and the unbelievers of people known in all of us find refuge for extremist voices and groups? Most students and teachers as well as administrative staff do not feel safe within universities. This is the current situation. The young people who are tired of introducing them into the country's universities and technology institutions are faced with an unpleasant reality, when they realize very soon that what is true about safety in the rest of society does not apply within the university. The simplest thing you can't call the police and she can intervene in case you're either threatened or you want to report an outright action. The deterioration of public property is almost daily, and unfortunately this is the result of the perception that everyone in the university can do what they want without any sanctions at all. If you do not want us to stand up to material damage, I assure you that the same applies to individual cases. I myself need to transfer my fellow student to the hospital after she was attacked at the National Technical University, because she simply wanted to defend the worthy right of the assembly, that is, the student assembly on matters relating to the university community itself. Unfortunately he didn't stand as lucky as Mr. Varoufakis. Without a security system there can be no free movement of ideas and academic freedom, while at the same time the educational process is being undermined. The development of research and innovation requires security and free universities without fear of raw violence. The state must ensure an appropriate academic environment for upgrading education work in conditions of dignity and freedom, and today's bill is moving in this right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already been covered by both the Minister and the Undersecretary, as well as by the previous speakers. The institution of local government is an institution that we must ensure as a daughter of an eye, because it is the most direct to the citizen. That is why I consider the arrangements necessary to achieve governance in municipalities and regions, where, due to the mere proportionalness of the mayors and regional councils, elected mayors do not have a majority in municipal and regional councils. In the light of Article 5 of the draft law on the hospitality of the institution - the Minister for Culture - 'European Capital of Culture' is also here, as the Capital of Culture for 2021 is Elefsina, I would like to ask you to stand next to this effort with all our powers, since its success will not only be local but also national. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u189	The Minister for the Interior has the floor, Mr. Theodorikos, to make some corrections to the legislative improvements for a very short time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, thank you. The first is that the ministerial amendments are accepted. And in the legislative improvement, which I mentioned earlier, on the third point, the right thing is 01-07-2018 and not - it took place by mistake - 01-12-2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking today to highlight some critical aspects, our positions on the issue of university asylum. And I think the best way to approach this issue is to try and see it through the look of a mere student. So let's imagine a new year's student at a school in the center of Athens. He arrives at the university full of awe, joy, anxiety, anticipation, slightly fished, as his peers would say. But thirsty for new images, for new experiences, for knowledge. What's he up to? It will surely feel awkward seeing strangers entering the halls from the beginning and finding the library closed, and so will the school secretariat whose staff were afraid of incidents. Walking through the filthy corridors, he will wonder if anyone who wants to write on the walls will surely refute by finding out that the lab - which he so much wanted to see - has also put this bundle. An announcement will inform him that some of his courses are carried, because several rooms are occupied. And in time, he'll settle with running behind extraordinary traditions so he won't get lost in the semester. Until this student reaches his degree, he will have seen whole rooms, pieces of public space, occupied by various organizations. Drugs circulate manually, underground full of molotovs and hoods. University technician painting and repainting the walls in vain. And teachers are being devoured, even built in their offices. All of this may have left him indifferent over time. Maybe it was a little folklore at one time. After all, he has now achieved his goal. He's a diplomat. But unconsciously, after four years, he will have compromised something much more threatening: that this alone is the reality of the Greek public university. The reality that has unfortunately become a well-established regime. One reality of which, unfortunately, the rule is the derogation. This student may be among those who continue their studies abroad. And there he will experience the great disappointment, perhaps even the great shame. He'll see courses conducted normally, examinations carried out on time, libraries open. He will walk to universities cleanly, hosting knowledge, research and culture, with students and teachers who work untrained, since no one destroys the university's property. And it will realise that there the marginality is, in fact, on the margins, while here it is located in the centre of university life. The student will then feel unjusted because neither he nor his teachers in Greece eventually had to envy anything from their foreign colleagues. And yet the comparison will be overwhelming, because it will be bitter to note that all this disparity of the Greek public university seemed to be indifferent or even painless. In fact, he took him back. And it will be the most critical one: that in the end freedom within the university is nothing but incompatible with its normal function. And then, unfortunately, it is quite possible that our student will decide to stay in the state that welcomed him and not return to Greece. He should also be one of the thousands of our scientists living off the border. And tell his foreign friends how he once began his studies at a school other than the others, at a university where the asylum applied Greek. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for our children and their families to experience a long-term delusion in order to see at the end that everything could be different. It is time to shout that the Greek universities are not doomed. That the reality, which the student of our history has experienced and experienced thousands of other Greek students, can also change Greece to better study its children. To provide them with knowledge, perspective and security. And so she can finally keep them close to her. One of the areas - not the only one - in this direction is the new regulation that we are introducing today for university asylum. A reform that serves academic freedom and the uninterrupted movement of ideas. We want higher education institutions to become a cells of reflection and creativity. To stay open all day for lessons, discussions, concerts. Be fresh and thoughtful tanks throughout the country, without fear of incidents, hatred and disasters. To become a place for meeting new streams and innovation, as is happening everywhere in the world. To put it another way, universities are opening up, they are no longer compatible with ugliness and modesty. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They condemn the authority and shine that they deserve, with present students, workshops in operation, with teachers free to teach, students free to question and investigate. That'll say true university life and real campus. It is therefore better to talk today about the regeneration of university life, about the restoration of asylum, rather than the abolition of it. Because if it means safe, conspiracy-protected place, and today, let us finally admit it, the sites of the universities have been arrested, they have been vandalized and many buildings have been looted. In the courtyard of the Economic University, smugglers expose their products and mock through the bars whoever goes to control them. In Aristotle, drugs are in public. In the basement of the institutions, ammunition warehouses are discovered, schools have been turned into wards of violence and hoods. That's the reality today. It also gives asylum and impunity to those who are responding to this new regulation today. Why? How can we do that? to talk about a public university, when it remains excluded from the municipality? How do we talk about the democratic university, when it does not belong to the many, but does the few control it? And that means? modern rule of law, when its territory includes islands of lawlessness, authoritarianism and violence? So, our goal is to free university forces? which are currently being imprisoned, and especially in these very open-ended areas, neither acts of common mafia nor actions of political brass can be accepted. Life in schools must breathe the air of dialogue and build on the foundations of the law. He, after all, is always the refuge of the weak. After all, the mighty have many ways of protecting themselves. To speak with the language of the opposition, we don't want policemen in the universities. We want to get out of there the hoodmen who police student life. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At least, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, those wearing uniforms and ethnic ceremonies, are organs of democracy and apologise to it, while known - unknown bullies serve only dark interests. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that there are time-consuming and cross-party responsibilities here. And we accept our share. But today the situation has reached unprecedented. So the debate on the so-called asylum, if we want it to be essential, presupposes bold assumptions and sincere willingness to give a solution, to take place without fireworks, such as this alleged respect for asylum by the Nazis in the Occupied Territories, not only because this is unbelievable, but because it equates the forces to possess Nazism with the legitimate authority of a democratic state. It also avoids the false beauty of the situation, in the name of certain ideological obsessions, because this is a trap that throws back the difficulties and eventually demolishs the responsible ones, mainly depresses popular vigilance. Finally, let the debate go away from a dangerous point of view, such as the one we have heard that universities must be a nursery of political officials. The country paid very expensively for the party tubes and their products. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The government's provision protects a lot of knowledge first and foremost. Because it is now a regime of various microgroups to dismantle whenever they want lessons: The investigation. Who guarantees today that an open scientific conference with different views can be organised at a school, if the theme happens to disagree with the views of the well-known boulders? Culture. Because many of our institutions are historical monuments throughout the country and they must be protected, but taxpayers' own money must also be protected. Because all these vandalisms cost not those who are naturally causing them, but all of us. Finally, regulation also shields political dialogue at universities, because so far some marginalists have decided in this way to dismantle a student assembly or even the student elections themselves. In short, their actions are undemocratic and authoritarian. So when we talk about the abolition of asylum, we are talking very simply about banning violations in university spaces. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because they are also public spaces, just like our streets and squares, where, in the event of danger, we are all calling for the help of the police. Nothing less and nothing more than that. However, we are also talking about banning anyone who is illegal. Anyone who wants such immunity today, supports impunity, helps convert universities into barracks of violence. And those who risk that the police will soon get into universities, think that a serious democratic retreat has already been tolerated; they have been accepted as data fortresses, which have been conquered and belonged to some other than students and their teachers. The problem is as topical as ever, because life has shown that public tolerance is escalating it and, above all, it is dangerous to change the texture of the problem itself. I would remind you that from a few hours of symbolic occupations of student resignations, we went to a permanent establishment of non-university schools and that we arrived at the permanent presence of drug dealers and traffickers in the institutions. From the verbal controversy, we went through bats and molotovs. The voice became a fist and the fist of a murderous bomb, to finally end up in the armed parades of some who call themselves anarchists. Therefore, as long as this wound is not dealt with, it is also being abused, but it also creates metastases. It is also wrong for the organized state to gradually be compatible with evil. I would remind you that on your day as well, in fact, the area around the Polytechnic has been delivered. They were transported from there public services, up to bus stops. Instead of blocking those who burned the vehicles, they changed their tracks! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Then there was the forced retreat of the inhabitants, of the small traders, who either moved or started to be closed down from early in their homes or left their shops, thus substantially paralyzing life in an entire quarter, but also in the rest of society, to begin to become accustomed to 'the form of the monster', which Manos Hadjidakis said. This regressive trend of years will be halted by our government, not only by finally restoring calm within, but also around universities, but also by highlighting a different model of everyday prosperity. The new Archaeological Museum, its interconnection with the National Technical University, for example, is such a flagship work. Thus, culture will be bridged with knowledge, tourism with commercial development and an entire neighbourhood will come out of the shadow of violence and degradation and come to the light of prosperity and progress. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, obviously our differences with SYRIZA are not independent of the very different view of higher education as a whole. Some continue to insist on the annual production of thousands of unemployed graduates, while we are in favour of linking education to the labour market. Some continue to support the close control of universities by the Ministry, while we give them full autonomy. Some of them were working unscheduled schools throughout Greece, while we ourselves want universities to judge the number of their importers. Some people are in favour of so-called free access to higher education, while we are establishing a limit that the universities themselves will have to say about who can enter higher education institutions and promote evaluation so that our studies can improve and our graduates can progress more and more. In short, SYRIZA today represents regression, while we strongly claim real progress. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But progress requires calm, security and democratic rules. Our position is a strong message of political will, that in Greece there is democracy, which does not allow few to determine the daily life of many... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ... that apart from the anonymous collectives, there is also the surnamed student, the individual personality of each citizen in this country and that the organized state at last works, which will not let our society change into a jungle, where those who practice violence will be commanded. Our proposal is therefore a call to everyone, and it is a call of legitimacy, unity and excess, a call with a sign nationally alone, a call to which everyone must respond, especially those who are primarily concerned with them, students, teachers and workers. And it is very encouraging that they first rushed to support this initiative by the teachers themselves, the people they teach in public universities. But - and I close with this observation - we are all united, because the right to security and freedom is indeed a dividing line between the forces of democracy and authoritarianism. That is why, despite the individual objections, I expect the progressive parties to stand on the right side of the story, voting for this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u193	Minister Pierracakis will shortly announce a legislative improvement. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, we are tabling a legislative improvement in the first paragraph of Article 61 of the draft law. The words ‘ten (10) days’ shall be replaced by the words ‘thirty (30) days’ because of the specificities of the summer season.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u195	The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. I am trying these days to understand the government's study of rushing summer, just before the 15th of August - to bring a provision on university asylum. And I was wondering what this urgency is, which prompts you to this act. Is it a major issue, which concerns the Greek society, which has dealt with the election period? Does the world talk about this issue today at the cafes or at the beaches, why are we in the summer too?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u197	Too much!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u198	Are they talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u199	Whoever has children...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Tsipras's questions are rhetorical.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u201	I'm answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u202	I will answer the rhetoric questions, although from what I can see, Mrs Bakoyannis has better knowledge of what is being discussed in the cafes and the beaches these days.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u203	Much better.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u204	I get the feeling it's not being discussed, but I might be wrong. But, ladies and gentlemen, my appreciation and our appreciation is that the New Democracy chooses, by bringing to a debate on asylum, to conduct a first ideological confrontation and ideological conflict with the Left and the progressive abundance in its broader dimension, and that is why your references to the terms of 'progressive', 'conservative', 'preservative','regression', and that is why your lasting appeal not to SYRIZA obviously, but to the Change Movement. I don't know what it will do, it's something we expect to see. I wonder, though - because I want to talk about the substance, and I will explain what I mean, when I talk about an ideological confrontation and ideological conflict - was the issue of university asylum the reason why we have been experiencing cases of violence all the time in the past, or greater cases of violence or infringibility in the Greek universities, because of the current legal strength of university asylum in the last three years from 2011 to the amendment that we have brought? The reality is that none of this is true. The reality is that you are showing an ideological obsession here, and the reality is that neither with asylum nor legal power we have today, there is a problem nor with existing cases of infraction and violence is yours. Your ideological obsession is not about asylum and legal power today. Your ideological obsession concerns the Greek public university as a whole and what this symbolizes in Greek society and in Greek reality, what symbolizes social, political, cultural, in our homeland. It is an obsession that starts, on the one hand, from your intrinsic abstraction towards the public space, the public university and your ongoing bias in favour of private schools and private universities and, on the other hand, from your abhorrence in everything that time symbolizes - I repeat - at political and ideological level the public university in our country. I am referring to his connection to the movements of the new generation. I am referring to his connection to the collective subconsciousness of Greek society and all those who have grown up since the 1980s, with the struggle of Greek youth and the Greek people against the seven-year-old dictatorship and with the struggles for progress and advancement in this country. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] After all, there were little times when, in their public speech, the most extreme expressions of this extreme right - let me express the expression - ideology that you have the courage to characterize it and progressively - the most extreme expressions - Mr Vorides, Mr Georgiadis - have directly spoken of the need to stop at last at our place the ideological hegemony of the Left, so stop and what it symbolizes or reproduces over time and historically this hegemony. It's with you, it's the public university. I have heard you make a reference to the student who is going to a Greek public university. I have the feeling that it was rather philosophical, because you do not have relevant experiences. You had happiness - and I do not say that it is necessarily happiness - to study directly at a good foreign university abroad. You didn't give all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u205	I've given all over the world. You don't even know that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u206	You went directly to a university abroad and described an image that discredits the Greek public university today. You described an image, which is far from the reality, because you insisted on one arm only, which has to do with the fact that in some schools alone - I want to repeat this - there are some cases of infractionality. But you have omitted something very important. You failed to mention the quality of the studies currently provided at the Greek public university. And that was no accident. [[Vibrant applause from SYRIZA Wing]] You failed to mention the fact that, according to Shanghai Ranking, the National Technical University, of which I had the honour of being a graduate in the field...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u207	What did you say? Did you say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u208	You have the floor. Nobody has the floor. Mr. Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. I have heard from the coup d'état - and this is causing me this - to reproduce something, which, as a make news, has been reproduced for a decade. If you click on Google the name "Tsipras", it will come out: "Translation from Bulgaria". This scourge of make news has been reproduced for ten years! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So I had the honour, with all the Greek exams, to go to the National Technical University, one of the best universities in the country, one of the best in Europe and internationally. And I had the honour of being a graduate of this school, I had the honour of doing postgraduate studies there. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am well aware of the comparison and level of study provided to the universities in our country, particularly at the Polytechnics. Seventh in the international ranking is the National Technical University and, in particular, the School of Civil Engineering. The National Kapodistrian University and the University of Crete and the University of Thessaly and the University of Patras have corresponding positions in the international ranking. So, this omission in your student's account, which ends his studies at a good Greek university and goes abroad and discovers how disgusting the Greek university is, has a major omission: the fact that this student, as soon as going abroad for a postgraduate degree, realizes how high a level of study he has done to the Greek public university, is unparalleledly higher than those of major universities abroad. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So your obsession with the Greek public university leads you, beyond the excellence, to repeat ideological and without any practical choice to legislate on asylum today, to be lured into substantial policies of downgrading or depreciation of the public university, when you are a party in governance positions. What work do you have to show from 1990 onwards? What work do you have to show for public universities? What was the plan of your resignation over time when you were in positions of government? Not only today, but for two decades now, you have the same and invariable line: the gradual privatisation of the functions of the public university, the deterioration of care, the dismantling of research, the increase in student costs and the abolition of Article 16 and, of course, the abolition of asylum. This is your great vision of higher education in our country! And in 2015 you left behind a landscape of dissolution in higher education: Higher education institutions had budgets that could not meet their basic functional needs. Many of your Members today may admit that. I remember, as Chief of Antipopulation at the time, in the difficult memorial years, Mr Fortsakis - I do not know if he is here today - who, as a Rector of the National Kapodistrian University, pointed out that there was no elementary expenditure to enable very important schools to operate, historical schools. We have undertaken, in the worst financial conditions that the country has found since post-Multipulation, and yet we have left work, because we had a project to upgrade the public university. We increased the EIT budget, set in motion procedures to strengthen student care, increased research expenditure of over 1% of GDP, created new sections, put an end to this anachronistic separation of higher and technological education institutions, reformed the map of higher education in our country in full, without conflict, without opening a nose, but with dialogue, with consent, we created a new reality. What plan do you have in particular in the investigation? I would like to present today an article from NATURE from 6 August - which says that 'SYRIZA may have lost the elections, but the reforms it has made in the field of research deserve to remain'. It's a three-page article. I'm filing it in the Minutes. It's not "AUSTRIA". He's not in a newspaper that supports SYRIZA. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You have spoken outrageously about the public university, you have spoken outrageously about the student, who goes abroad and does not go back to Greece, not because of Brain Drain, not because of the memorial policies, not because of an economic policy, which has destroyed everything, but because we do not have a high level of knowledge and a high level of research. That's not the reality. What did you do? Good morning, you canceled the founding of the Law School of Patras. What are the scientific criteria behind this decision? Are the criteria political? I don't know. But if your design is done in terms of your leg... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] And yes, in terms of cafeteria, of course! Because the logic that says that the country does not need another legal school, because there are unemployed lawyers, is an argument of a caffeine character. Of course engineers are unemployed. Should we go to civil engineering schools? And doctors are unemployed. Should we go to medical schools? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Unless you're planning on closing schools! In any case, this decision will simply lead to other young people abroad for study, even if it is your main argument, because they must open up to higher education private schools and private universities. Second move you made: Transfer the research from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Development. We agree that research must be linked to the market, but research is far greater than the narrow limits of supply and demand rules. Research requires scientific planning, requires resources, requires strategy. The very nature of the research cannot be confined to profit, which gives rise to such or the wrong research programme. You mutilate research and science with that logic, weaken it. You lead to depreciation of whole scientific fields, whose offer is not reflected in terms of profit. We don't care to be justified. We are interested in not going back to what we received in 2015, especially in the field of research. Third move you have just made: you have come here to open up this ideological controversy on asylum, the medicine for all diseases. So I feel, hearing you, that you are trying to drag us into a debate that is not really about 2019. It is about 1990, in 2006. In fact, you serve it all in the form of selfish and modern. So let's start over. In 2011 you came to this Chamber and voted with PASOK then, which was in the government, the famous Diamantopoulou Law, Mrs Diamantopoulou. Let us remember: Did our country in the next few years become a paradise of security and legality and any violations within the university disappear? But here - I want to stay in this - we are not only dealing with an ideological obsession, but also with a conscious deception, I would also like to say well-organised and a portion of the press, which traditionally likes to sell this product. Where's the deception? By concealing what the law today says and what is currently being planned. Because today, the law explicitly provides that police intervene, when a felony is committed or when acts are committed against life in university spaces. So, in practice, what do you want to achieve? That's the question. In practice, I say - for the ideological conflict I said and can say more - but do you want to succeed in patrolling the police outside the teaching rooms? Should we also take those policemen who have been on the subway, who were told "black panthers" and who have been filled with Athens? Athens is a capital city with millions of visitors coming to Athens - and in recent years tourism has risen to thirty-five million arrivals - and in Greece because they feel security. Do you understand that? They feel security, especially in Athens. And you have now created the image - on your own! - that Athens is an insecure capital. The French come to Greece because they don't want to see armed policemen patrolling anymore, because in Paris they really feel insecure. And you've filled the subway with "black panthers". Are you going to put them in university schools, too? Is that the solution? In any case, I would like to ask you frankly: does this you think it will help us to have - from September onwards when the schools will reopen - a state of restoration of order and peace? I don't believe that. I barely believe that through this excessive study, you are at risk, major university schools becoming the focal point. So, as soon as you have undertaken, you have made a series of moves, which demonstrate how you understand the progress in the field of education. You took the research from the Ministry of Education, you abolished the two-year training programs, you abolished the Law School in Patras, you went to create chaos with the submission of computers and today, after all this, you come here to set up a communication show on asylum. In more than a month, schools open. The serious issues of students and the academic community, the academic community, are completely different from those that you have shown today, are completely different from ideological obsessions and a communication game. We therefore call on you to take serious note of the serious problems and to take a fundamental responsibility towards the people of the Greek public university, the teachers and the students, to all those who work within the public university. Because, apart from ideological obsession, there is also the reality of asking for answers. And that's where we'll be here to help. However, in every attempt you have made to expel all this important work, which we have done all the previous years, we will be hard to deal with, both us and the academic community and the student movement, despite the problems it has in recent years. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr President, let me just say a few words about the part of the bill concerning local government. And this is another type of ideological obsession. I see the same intolerance in terms of a genuine effort to authenticate the popular will in local government. And that, before the law is implemented, this great institutional division, which we have done in self-government, which is just proportional. It's about, if you'd like, and a perception of enthusiasm. I don't know, but this - not asylum - is being discussed at the cafeterias. I hear it many times, where I stand and wherever I am. All right, you disagree. Okay, you have ideological differences large, but, hell, can't you, at local government level, have the possibility of shaping consensus and compositions? Can't you? Is there a man's principle everywhere and always, who wins it all and can't reach an agreement on what is self-evident? So you come today, and even before a law is implemented, before you see what weaknesses it has, what problems it may have and where it is created, you change it. I think that's never happened before. Citizens in the self-government elections voted on the basis of a electoral system, i.e. they knew that there is an electoral system, which encourages scheduling and co-operation. Today, you tell them "forget this and it is important that the first chair of one should return from the back door". You also come and bring a photographic layout for the vice - president's location. You say that the vice may be from another party, except that of the mayor, but not the district commander. I wonder: is that irrelevant to the outcome of the elections? Because they are in the groups that are relevant to you, the ones who won the regional elections, bring this amendment. It's clear, in my view. In other words, you do not respect the rules when you are missing - we have seen it - you do not respect them and when you win. So I have a feeling you're getting ahead of yourself. I have the feeling that you will find people in self-government belonging to your own political area. I feel that the constitutionality of many of the provisions that you have tabled will be judged. But the political substance remains and is that you are putting a false dilemma: 'governance or democracy'. We tell you that democracy is crucial and that there can be - and this is the bet - governance and, indeed, effective governance through strengthening democracy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Before I close, I want to repeat something. Today, this disputed provision for the Competition Committee is being passed. Will you insist? You'll insist, apparently. You did what you didn't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u210	What love now!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u211	It's okay. I'll be a little annoying. Three minutes I'm going to eat from your time, but I'm going to bother you often. We will often bother you with our interventions here, from the House. We will be bothering you, especially when you are trying to impose, with the logic of the majority power, provisions that are far beyond undemocratic and unconstitutional. You did that you didn't understand everything I took on you the other day. With particular examples, I have shown your hypocritical attitude to the partisanisms, that you are now in pain. I will not go into this again. I mentioned both Mr Kyritsakis and his advisers and the director of his office. I said that the only one of the twenty-three independent authorities that bothers you is this one. For the others, you have no problem. You are allegedly insisting that the former President of the Ice Bay and former Prime Minister are a party option. Why? Because he served at the Prime Minister's Legal Office and anyone serving at the Prime Minister's Legal Office is party to the Prime Minister's party at the time. In other words, Mr Pikrammenos, Vice-President of the Council of State, who was at the Legal Office of Constantine Mitsotakis, should not be elected President of the Council of State. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It should not be elected after the President of the Council of State unless the Council of State is an institution that is not as important as the institution of the Competition Committee. The competition committee should be more independent than the judiciary. However, I come to the point of view, because I said that I do not want to repeat the arguments which we repeated the other day, and I think the world has understood. The fact is that something is bothering you in relation to the activities of the Competition Committee. I mention this because many publications have seen the light. I do not know exactly what happened before - a lot has also been written - but what I know is that serious investigations are being carried out for various cartels in the economy, including a cartel and a democracy in the country, not just the economy, because information for the citizens is an element of democracy. So we currently have the same owner, who owns a television station, who owns about seven, including very large newspaper titles at the site, to control the only press agency, plus all the others he can control. And he's your sponsor, officially. The Competition Committee has been audited in this cartel and it is a matter of democracy. Is that what bothered you? You are rushing with such a study to photograph Mrs Thanos, as if it were Pasinorias in the Communist Movement for so many years, to SYRIZA, the symposium of years, the most partitioned in Greece! Alas! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Is that what bothering you? Behavior is affected? The conclusion of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament comes and breaks down all your objections, in order to stop the administration of the Competition Committee, noting that the amendment at issue contravenes the law of the European Union. The conclusion of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament says: 'If each Member State were allowed to end its term of office before its initial intended expiry, in breach of the rules and guarantees provided for that purpose by the applicable legislation, the threat of such an early cessation, which would be made to that authority throughout its term of office, could lead to a form of obedience to the political authority, incompatible with that requirement of independence.' The Scientific Committee of the Parliament is saying this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u212	He says more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u213	Yeah, he says more. He says that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u214	That's what it says.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u215	Did you really contact the Commission's respective audit authorities? Did Mrs. Westager call you or a minister of yours? Oh, no. Look a little better. I don't know. What I'm telling you is that you're not the only ones talking to European Commissioners. We have a chance too. Four and a half years we've ruled the place now. We're not soaked. Forget about that! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I tell you not to go any further, because this is not a matter of legality. It is not a question of formulating legal interpretations. This is a deeply political issue, which, in particular, when it comes to critical strings of economic and political life, you realise that it will have a significant impact. If this is implemented, which you will be voting on today, there will be a very serious matter of stopping the term of office of members and officials of the Competition Committee and therefore of stopping the very sensitive work of the Authority. Why? There will be no quorum. Because it's not just Mrs. Thanos. They will also be members of the committee. What does that mean? There is a risk of cancellation and, in any case, huge delays in the examination of serious cases of enormous economic and social interest. Is that what you want? There are cases where there is a risk, even of cancellation, of cases where the limitation of collection of very important fines is to be lifted. Is that what you want? In short, I would like to tell you that this is not a matter for the person. You can charge whatever you want to faces. This is a political matter. And if what you are trying to do is control an independent authority, in order to serve economic interests, not only do we control you, not only Greek society controls you, but the institutions will also control you in Greece, but also the institutions in the European Union. I want you to give me an answer today that you didn't give me the day before yesterday about the Commander of the NSA. Is the Commander of the S.H.I.E.L.D. staying? Is he staying, Mr. Mitsotakis? Yesterday, on the official website of the NSA, they smuggled the following: They wrote the name and CV of the former commander of NSA Mr. Rubbi. As soon as the media found out, they brought it back. Perhaps they did, because comparing the two biographics would really be a comparison, which would pose huge questions for your choice. Since you mentioned him the day before yesterday as a simple journalist, I must tell you that he studied in the United States Psychology, Political Sciences, International Relations and is a Doctor of International Relations at Washington's Johns Hopkins University. What exactly is yours? You're on your way. That's the choice of the perfect ones that the new government would do, isn't it? [[Applause from the SYRIZA Wing]] And when we told you the other day that it was inconsistent with the law, because it must have a recognized degree equal to the Greek universities, you said nothing. And when I told you that from the specific open university, studying by mail Management, in its thirty-four, IOATAP recognizes only the Department of Music, you still didn't answer. I ask you: finally, what exactly is your chosen one? Kittyrist or drummer, Mr. Mitsotakis? [[Applause from the SYRIZA Wing]] In any case, in matters sensitive to democracy, for the institutions to be serious. You are starting in such a bad way and in relation to this unacceptable photographic amendment for the Competition Committee and in relation to your choice for the administration of the National Information Service, such a sensitive position on critical national issues, where you should have the sensitivity to go out and say that the person there will be above all suspicion and that it will inform all the political leaders, because the issues it manages are of national interest and national importance. I challenge you to take a stand against them, because if you do not take a position, we will continue and control you, but also lead you to substantial folding from these harmful options.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u216	The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pikrammenos, has spoken on a personal matter. Here, Mr. Pikramman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u217	Chief of Staff Response, I think you're trying to compare things that can't be compared to each other and people understand that. In this case, the people's proverb is true: 'What does the spectator have to do with the retsinus?'. I, Chief of Staff Response, went to the office of the late Constantine Mitsotakis in 1991 following a question from the then Ministerial Council and the choice was the Judiciary Council of State. They chose me, the Judiciary Council of State. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I became President of the Council of State in 2009, i.e. about nineteen years later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u218	And?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u219	And if today I am here, in this Chamber, it is because you brought me here, making me here with a political face. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I didn't want to be a political person, but you brought me in. What can we do? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now, allow me, with great sadness, to say a few words about the President of the Competition Committee, because I do not like to say things to my colleagues and my former colleagues. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government is ringing.]] There is indeed a problem with the case law of the European Court of Justice. But is that the problem here? What happens when he, who must be the guarantor of the independence of the authority, is the one who violates it first? What happens in this case? And ask you a few questions. Why did Mrs. Thanou make the decisions in insurance and did she not make the right decisions? Do you know the answer? The answer is, therefore, that it should not be checked by the European Commission. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why, Commissioner, did he take these decisions despite the reaction of the other members of the Competition Committee? Mrs Thanos will be controlled by the European Commission. I could say a lot more, but I'm not saying any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u220	Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis asked for the floor. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u221	Mr Tsipras, let me begin by pointing out to you that Mr Pikrammenos's personal history and how he was found in 1991 to serve at the office of Prime Minister, you know it very well. You chose once again to leave insinuating against certain people, of course, to get the answer you deserved. It is precisely the same attitude, which you systematically adopt, that you sprinkle people and then, when they are justified, disappear and do not ask for an apology. And Mr. Pikrammenos you have sprung him repeatedly from this here at the Step! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] The media, which were supposed to fight you during the four-year period, hung him in the handkerchiefs! Do you remember the headlines in the case of "NOVARTIS"? Do you remember them? Now, who has been vindicated, you personally have the courage to stand up and tell this man: I'm sorry, I'm sorry to drag you in this unacceptable way, instead of sitting in the parliamentary chairs? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The same, of course, applies to all his others, otherwise, "a greater scandal of modern Greek history", as the Deputy Minister of your Government told us, coming out of the Great Maximos. Otherwise, you fought for the distinction and separation between judicial and executive authority! I now come to the issue of asylum. You urged us to deal with more serious issues. It's a very serious matter when teachers are built in their offices! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is a very serious matter when many of our universities have become drug trafficking centres. It is a very serious matter, when the known unfamiliar bahalakises, known destroyers of the area of the historic center of Athens, every time, persecuted by the police, find refuge within the Polytechnic, in order to avoid arrest. And yes, because you criticised me for my contact with the Greek public university, I will tell you first of all that once again you have been caught undetected. And I gave a lot of Greek exams and I went to a Greek public university. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I went to law school, Mr. Tsipras. Although I had no intention, because I had already decided to study abroad, I gave a full-fledged exam and I went through it. And they never signed it. But I went to the public university. This, so we don't twist the story. But that's not the object of my speech. Do you know the problem, Mr. Tsipras? That as a mere congressman, I could not go to a public university and make a speech on political liberalism, because I would be provoked by the well-known strangers whom your own practices have been protecting. That's not freedom of expression. It is a very serious issue for the quality of our democracy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So these issues are indeed very serious, but I would like to assure you that they are not ideological at all. The reinstatement to normality is not currently an ideological mark. It is a very progressive policy, Mr Tsipras. To be able to study safely at the public university is neither right, central, nor left. It's just, the revolution of self-evident, which your party fought with rabies all these years. The purpose here is not to have a wider debate about the public university. Once again, cynically, you lied about our positions on the Greek public university. You know very well that in the programming statements of my own, but also of the Minister of Education, we have set as the top priority the upgrading of the public university, as a lever for social mobility, as the basic tool for all Greek children to gain good knowledge and skills, so that they can then continue their lives and be able to find a good job, equipped with the appropriate supplies. That is why our programme for the Greek public university will be judged. Of course, no one disputes that today there are many islands of excellence in public universities. Exceptional teachers, excellent researchers, too many willing students, who often strive in difficult conditions to distinguish themselves, each one in his work. And what is an exception today is what we want to do as a rule. But I saw a very obvious contradiction in what you said to us. You told us how well Greek public universities are. How well it is or is not, it is judged by the international rankings of universities. We have some discrimination, but we certainly cannot be satisfied overall with the ranking of Greek public universities in relation to competitive universities in other countries. That's the reality. If it satisfies your own approach to being three hundred or four hundred, such as our ranking with a few exceptions, it does not satisfy mine. From there on, however, how the public university is to be upgraded is a very special debate. On the one hand, you cannot tell us how good and upgraded the public university is and, on the other, to abandon New Democracy and PASOK for what they have done over the years, which they have been ruling. I imagine if the public university was upgraded, it was not upgraded to the minister who told us that excellence is a relic! It wasn't upgraded to your four years. There's something good the other guys would do. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You referred to Law 4009, the Law of Diamantopoulou, as it has been known. It is a law, which was then a cross-party consensus point, a law in which the New Democracy then, as opposition, dared and made great excesses. Although we disagreed on some points, we voted in favour of this bill, which was an important reform at the public university, despite its imperfections, I stress it. That law was fought. It was fought by many. It was fought by reactionary forces, by forces, which did not agree with the law, perhaps some within our party. It was certainly fought, organized by you, however, from the space you represent, from the backward maintenance area, from the area that distinguished teachers, who came from abroad to offer their services to the management boards, without being rewarded, to them and you finally to expel them from Greece. You're so progressive! So much progress now! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We had the luxury, a Alexander Nehama from America to bring him back to the Foundation Council and all of them. I only mention one example. Dozens are the examples of prominent professors, who - in the end - had to leave because they did not endure this ruthless war, which your own party had already declared in this law. I have not heard anything on the substance, Mr Tsipras. If we recognise that there is a real problem of infraction within the public university, please explain to me why, within the public university, the police must not or cannot intervene. What is that, which makes the public university so different... [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] ...to require special protection at the time when no one, in this country, disputes freedom of expression? Why was the institution of asylum created? To protect the freedom of expression within the university. Today, free expression is not protected, because the Champagne teams, which you defend, go and beat anyone who disagrees with them, which they themselves believe! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] No one wants police campus. On the other hand, I am not going to and cannot accept, as Prime Minister of this country and as Head of a party, which has indeed been dealt with, having as its central project the abolition of this asylum, this distorted concept of asylum, to make any retreat to this issue. You have accused us of legislating in great depth. Get used to it, Mr. Tsipras, at quick rate of legislation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The seasons of rastast and relaxation now belong definitively to the past. You'll be here. We'll give you a little more time. Maybe as an Opposition you'd like to rest a little bit. We will tire you a little more, be here in the House to control us from the role to which the Greek people have ranked you, of course, the Constitution of the country. I now come to the last point which you raised on the Competition Committee. I will have contacted Mrs Westager - I will have not yet - and I will explain to her in detail how your choices have brutally violated your European obligation to collect the Competition Committee. I will speak to her - as I have already done in writing - about who Mrs Thanos. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mrs Thanos's report, of course, which rushed one day after the Prime Minister's counsel was appointed and took back all these nice things, which she said, that judges should not serve to independent authorities, taking heavy wages, because this may be the case with suspicion of transaction. I shall, of course, also speak to her about the other members of the Competition Committee. Of course, it is an entirely independent and technocratic choice to appoint a Vice-President to the Competition Committee of your top minister. This option is unmistakable, which has nothing to do with party criteria. Let's be a little serious, Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, because we are all being judged by our choices, when we make our proposal for the new head of the Competition Committee, you will be able to make it - because this provision will pass, however much as Mrs Thanou says, whatever she says will not continue to be President of the Competition Committee. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm sorry I saddened your good friend, but that imposes the public interest. When you look at our choice, then you will understand what it really means to such a critical independent authority. A little patience. Once again, Mr Tsipras, for a person you do not know, you insist that he be presented with characterisations completely deceptive. We, the National Intelligence Agency during your term of office, left her completely out of any public criticism, because this is how it is done in all the serious countries of the world. You didn't. I won't get into the logic of who has or who doesn't have the best CV or whether a typical issue...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u222	Typical matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u223	Look, now, don't compare CV. We're not entering this conversation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's not our subject matter. Isn't that right? Don't compare CV. But I will conclude with a question to you, Mr Tsipras. Has Mr Rubatis, who had these exceptionally genuine degrees, been able to recognise his equivalence with the IATAP when you assigned his duties?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Tsipras, the procedure is urgent. Do you want to be second?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u226	I need two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u227	Do you want two minutes? Because Mrs. Gennimata has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, may I say something about a procedure? Because we've seen this play before, when I was sitting on the counterpopulation benches. I think we should respect the order of speakers. Once there is a president of another party, we will not turn this debate into a ping-pong. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'll sit here and answer everybody.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u229	You'll answer Mr. Tsipras later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u230	I'll answer that. I have no problem answering you, Mr. Tsipras. However, I think it is right that these debates should not be turned into a ping-pong between the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officerial Response. Give the floor to all the leaders, and I'll be able to answer everyone. But it is in your judgment to do what you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u231	The word for dentistry has been given to the previous Chief. That is why it is being followed by Mr Tsipras. Mr. Prime Minister may answer Mr. Tsipras, but it will not be endless. That's where it stops. And then Mrs. Gennamas will have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, however, the fiftyness of democracy is dialogue. Why is that bothering you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Tsipras, speaking only two faces is annoying and unfairness to others. However, since the reason for denial has been given to a previous political leader, I would ask you to have the floor for two minutes and then the Prime Minister will judge whether he will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u234	You will forgive me for that, before my time begins, to tell you that I disagree with Mr Mitsotakis. I think that, in the previous period, who was Chief of Officer Responsibility, he had the opportunity and the opportunity to take the floor for as long as he wanted comfortably, but to take the floor and answer the Prime Minister. I'm doing the same thing. Dialogue is the quintousity of democracy and not the parallel monologues. I would ask that we keep this because otherwise the House has no interest in it. In any case, I am going to go into substance very soon, because it is indeed in urgent procedure. First of all, I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Government for taking the floor. I want to thank him, because with his intervention. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Thanos on her excellent report. And you did that in two ways. The first was because you referred to your term of office in the Prime Minister's legal office. No measles. But since a judge has the ability to take this position, that means that this position is not a party choice, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, there is nothing wrong with Mrs Thanos, because she held this position. Because that's what the formal word says in the law you filed. The second is that, in essence, you have confirmed that what concerns you is not whether it holds this position, having a party crisis or a political crisis. So it is not the reason why you are replacing it, but what it has done all this time. Her past isn't why, but what she did. You told us that he was making insurance measures in the case of 'ARGOS'. When you contact Mrs Westager, do not forget to mention this, Mr Mitsotakis, in the fact that a businessman has so many accumulated media in the country and the one and only press distribution agency, and this businessman happens to be both sponsor and family relations with your own family. Don't forget to tell Mrs. Westager about her conclusion. We were told by the Vice-President that the problem was that he had taken insurance measures so that he could not be controlled by the committee. You're not right. Insurance measures were taken, because it was the urgency procedure, because it had been putting this case under the chairmanship of Mr Kyritsaki for two years. Why was he putting this case on? There is a critical political question. I repeat that this is a question of democracy. Informing our country is a question of democracy. There cannot be monopolies, there cannot be so much in one man, even if this man is related to government officials. The last thing I want to say, in relation to the intervention of the Vice-President, is this: you reminded me of a saying that we had heard in Parliament from Mr Polydora, which said: 'I am doing, I am doing my best'. But, Mr Vice-President, I am not the reason you are here. You know very well that there is a law, with which we all disagree and we rushed to change it in the Constitutional Review. It is the law on liability of Ministers, of those who have been ministers or Prime Ministers. So justice and the prosecutors of corruption sent the NoVARTIS case to Parliament. And they sent without checking - because the law imposed it - all the persons who had been in ministerial positions. Once they've been stumbled on political faces, that's the law. These same prosecutors, who have threatened - not you personally, I mean government officials today, in opposition and in particular in Samaras - the same prosecutors, who have attacked you, are the ones who filed the cases of specific political persons mentioned in the case-file. This is once again the decision of justice and society is watching. Yesterday you denounced the judges as preservatives. Today, Mr Mitsotakis, you welcome their decisions. To finish this case, I challenge you to set up a committee of inquiry on "NOVARTIS", to learn the truth about all these years, to learn what happened with the medicine, what happened with over-cost. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You will fall for it, as you stepped on it with your other study to send Paulis on a case that obviously had nothing to do with personal disputes with Mr Stournara or Mr Poulis, your stateman, who is accused and in justice, for misappropriation of public money. It'll be your Waterloo! Because the entire Greek people will learn the truth about what has happened so many years and about "NOVARTIS" and about CEDEFOP and with all the scandals in the field of health. I conclude, Mr President - because I have told you that I will not really get far - with this: Look, the matter of the National Information Service is indeed a sensitive and crucial issue and it is not my choice, if you like, to confront the matter of the National Intelligence Service. What I do not understand, Mr Mitsotakis, is why you insist on a mistake. Because there is a formal problem here and there is a real problem. It is no coincidence that all the previous years, all the Governments, all the Prime Ministers, chose for this post people with a well-known walk, with a well-known career - and it is not just the typical diplomas of their curriculum - people who had been evaluated and mostly above suspicion. You choose a man who no one knows and whose only parchment is that he was a executive in a private security business. And when there's a formal problem, real formal problem, the laws are to be applied. So, are you going to compare Mr Rubbai's curriculum, you yourself, who, a few days ago, thanked the former Governor for the way he ran and for the fact that he was informing you inconsistently and you have not made a single judgment or one single reference to the fact that this institutional behaviour will continue today? I therefore expected a more concrete response today to the essential, but also to the typical comity of that Commander. Otherwise, I will begin - and I do not often - to suspect that they have a number of publications that make a round of the internet and try to explain this really strange choice that you have made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u236	You did not understand again, Mr Tsipras, what Mr Pikrammenos told you. Mr. Pikramed was sent to the Prime Minister's office by decision of the judiciary. Mrs. Thanos was personally chosen by you one day after she had been retired. There's, I think, a difference. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] After all, I think that your relationship with Mrs Thanos and the way in which she had been chosen for the presidency of the Ice Arena, and she may have given rise to some questions. Perhaps, to refresh your memory, you chose it at three o'clock a week before the referendum, completely bypassing the yearbook. [[Sustained applause from the New Democracy Wing]] So I could also say that it is a deep personal relationship, which goes back several years, this particular choice of you. You sit next to Mr. Polakis and you refer to the law on the responsibility of Ministers! [[Sustained applause from the New Democracy Wing]] How courage must you have, Mr. Tsipras? This lousy law, which is not a law, which you have invoked so many times, on which we have so many discussions that it needs to be changed, comes Mr. Paulis to invoke, this shameful law, to save Parliament's decision to waive his immunity. [[Sustained applause from the New Democracy Wing]] How hypocrisy now! For both of you this. Now, on the issue of handling, no, we never blamed judges for handling. Oh, no. We blamed you! You're in trouble. [[Sustained applause from the New Democracy Wing]] The construction wasn't a judiciary. It was a political construction. So that you don't put words in our mouths that we haven't said. And in any case, I will ask the next commander of the NSA to come and inform you immediately, to get to know you, personally, and to know the person who, with such comfort, is also accusing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u237	Please, Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u238	Thank you very much, Mr President. Although I must say that you have a great deal of responsibility for what we've been watching for the last hour and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u239	We've been tracking secondarys, like yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u240	We're on the same show. I would ask you, because we voted with a large majority and you are the President of the Greek Parliament, not to allow the dialogue here in reality to be turned into reality. You can take care of it. We've lived it all over the past few years. Finally, the Greek people and the Chamber of Deputies have inspired where both the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officerial Response have studied what their families have done, their historic path. Enough! The problems of the Greek people are too great and our role here, from whatever location we have, is to try to provide effective solutions. The reason I have asked to give a second answer is because I think that the operation of universities is an extremely critical issue and employs the vast majority of Greek society, much more than the personal retaliations we have seen at the last hour. So yesterday, in my prototype, I spoke about the possibility of giving a realistic solution and a large parliamentary majority of its support. Because that is our responsibility, and that is the message that the Greek Parliament must send to the Greek society, that it is at last willing to put an end to the lawlessness of the universities, which has prevailed, especially in recent years. And the SYRIZA government, the previous one, and Mr Tsipras personally, has a great responsibility for the enormous tolerance shown in lawlessness and violence over the past few years. However, we have made a clear proposal. We called on you, Prime Minister, to bring the provision that we have all voted together in 2011, corrected by all the necessary legislative improvements, so that it is effective and that the vast majority can be formed. The fundamental basis of this provision was that the presence of the police at universities is linked to the conduct of criminal offences. What we are saying is that it must now be clear that no one who commits a crime outside the universities cannot find asylum within them, neither the brunettes nor the traffickers. So that must be clear in the order. It must also be clear that there is no need for the prior approval of any university institution, because we have seen that this in practice was ineffective. They did not assume their responsibilities. They didn't cooperate as the dean authorities should, to say things by their name. What you're saying is not the same. You say that there must be general policing and free patrols, regardless of whether criminal offences are being committed or not. You're assimilating the university to the public space. "With the squares," you said features. But I would remind you, Prime Minister, that drugs are being trafficked in squares in the squares. In Exarcheia there are no asylums and no protections. So what we are interested in is efficiency and will. So I wonder why this obsession. Finally, Prime Minister, is it your point to proceed on your own? Aren't you interested in ensuring a strong majority that will give the message to the police that they have full coverage of doing their job? Because you know that's a problem, too. They do. Of course, the political will did not exist in the past few years. There is no reason, therefore, from the one end that we have lived in the previous years in the universities, to get to the other end. Do you know why? Because this provision you bring will not be effective. You will create new problems and form fronts of heirous forces against your government, the bourgeois of Hail will open and from September we will have new problems within the universities. How clearer, then, than the wording I said yesterday and I repeat it? If you want, we will then testify to the House. ‘Where criminal offences are carried out, common legislation shall apply within the premises of the higher education institutions without prior approval of any of their institutions’. Clearly, clearly and we can all vote together. Why do you deny it? Why do you insist on a wrong wording that can create new problems? The obsession with the mistake is unforgivable, Prime Minister. In any case, I would like to make it clear: Four and a half years ago, the country has paid a very heavy price from the results of the SYRIZA Government and various persecutors, who have moved on the basis of idealism and populism. We, against the enormous war we have suffered over the years, have stood up against populism and preservation. We will not retreat to a corresponding populism, to conservative perceptions and opinions, no matter how refined, chicatoes appear, and no matter how strong fires are. We have one forehead and I repeat it: with populism and maintenance. So I urge you to reconsider and give the House the opportunity, by a large majority, to give the Greek people the signal that we are determined to have safe universities for our children, for teachers, for workers, for ideas, for research, because this is how academic freedom is finally protected and the public university is upgraded. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Because in the end, the only ones to rub their hands are the enemies of the public university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u241	The Deputy of the New Democracy Mr Constantine Bogdanos is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, will you give me a minute to wait for the plenary to stop being a centre for passing through?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u243	Please, be quiet! Here, Mr Bogdano, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a newly elected Member, let me commit myself to this House and the Greek citizens that I will always approach this sacred step of the Hellenic Republic with the same due respect. After all, our country and society have been suffering a great deal in recent years from institutions that approach the concept of institutions and duty with unrecognised lightness. My first parliamentary speech concerns the vote within a very short time of the vowing of the new government of express and emblematic commitments, which we have made in the run-up to elections, which aim to restore, not only the efficiency of critical public policies, but the legality and confidence of citizens with regard to democracy itself. So the draft law under discussion is multi-purpose. On the one hand, we all realise the importance of intervention for the digital version of pensions, for the loss of distribution of medicines to severely and timelylyly sufferings, for the reduction of the interest rate on debts in insurance funds and for the effective institutional strengthening of digital governance. On the other hand, Minister, dealing with the major problems caused by the impotent introduction of simple proportionality in the functioning of regional and municipal councils is urgent. Unfortunately, these problems are merely a small advance in the consequences of the mere actuarial application and in the national elections, because they occur when democratic institutions are subjected to ideology and micro-partyism. That is why with other responsible political forces it is our duty to consult to ensure the country's governance. Ladies and gentlemen, without underestimating the importance and value of the above mentioned, I would like to refer in particular to the high symbolic intervention of the abolition of the immunity of the Greek public university, a subject which - I mean it literally and not just transportly - is my region, my region, the polypathy of 1st Athens. We have heard heavy rulings from the Opposition that the arrangement is very far-right, that it is designed to subvert the university to great interests, or that it cancels a racing conquest of the student movement. What we have not heard is why it is a conquest that we need a call from the master and - let us be open, let us not hide behind our finger - the minister in question, in order to stop physical violence, drug trafficking and others, what you can imagine - go up to the undergrounds of the ASE, if you can - the destruction of public property, the construction of molotov, the continuous obstruction of events by fanatic minorities, events that simply do not find them in agreement. So legalism, the same laws and rules apply to everyone and everywhere, without exceptions, the safeguarding of law and order throughout the territory, the guarantee of the security of citizens, is not a matter of extreme, neither right nor any of the other pretexts. On the other hand, it goes without saying that the obligation of liberal democracy and of the social contract is self-evident. I can assure you that the vast majority, at least the people of my generation, who have lived in universities, from building brick teachers, to far more dangerous and deeply undemocratic situations, supports the end of the asylum of lawlessness, as well as the abolition of every chain of lawlessness in our cities. Yeah, it's a generation thing. It's a generation issue, too. My generation, this particular generation, which has grown in proportion to and manned in digital terms, which has experienced a widening abundance and then bathed the crisis, which is now silently fighting for the advancement and the right, is not expressed by the minorities of violence, who are in charge of ressaltoing the institutions to settle and not expressed by younger ages, but by dinosaurs on the substance. On the contrary, it is expressed by the spirit of change, which is now finally taking place. Because they have nothing else to say, they tell us extremes. For bad luck, then, the New Democracy, the multi-collective folk party, which extends from the leftist center to conservative liberalism, is here to protect the democratic city, according to the demands of the vast majority of the Greek people. In the same way that we have expelled the nazis from this Chamber, we are also expelled from our schools from fans of disinfection. We don't care if the one who reads Bakunn, Nechayev, Cropotkin, Marx, classic illustrated is the one who breaks. We care he breaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, I started late because of the withdrawal of colleagues. I'm gonna need another one and a half minutes, counted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u247	Just a minute, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u248	Because some don't understand or want to understand, and because we hear radical leftists who are waging an agenda of rights - attention here - to make us - listen, listen! - classes of liberalism, let's make something clear: respect for individuality is not translated into hailing. Liberal does not mean "go, dog, salt". There are many kinds of liberals, but there are no bile-liberals. On the other hand, there are - and I close - many liberals with love for Hellenism, orthodoxism, with faith in values such as family, excellence, labour, which in no way invalidate the enormous importance of the armouring of individual rights and the choices of life of every person, against any racism and against homophobia. I know that these authorities are expressing many citizens. I saw it in the forty wonderful days of my campaign, walking in Athens. And you know, when I was asked by the election what work I wanted to do in Athens, I told them something simple, to help create the conditions, so that a family starts a Sunday, a walk from Koliatsou Square or the square of America, and arrives unwittingly to sit in Omonia. So today, with the bill being passed, the forces of Greek democracy liberate ASE, the Economic University, liberate the National Technical University and bring this objective a step closer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Comrade, you've spent five minutes. Please complete it very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u250	I'm done. Now the job begins and starts "with the right". That's a good start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it was agreed that the procedure would be completed at noon at 15.30 p.m. Unfortunately, this cannot be possible. The President of Parliament has been consulted with the parliamentary groups to see how we can proceed. Mr Plakkatakis has the floor for an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u252	We've been here since 9:30. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u253	Mrs Pipilis, your Minister has asked you for an amendment. I totally understand you. I raised the matter earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u254	Wait a minute. I won't bother you. The proposed provision regulates issues, first of all, the operation of the Transport Council, because after the adoption of d.d.84/2019, where, among other things, the position of the Secretary-General of the Ministry is abolished, there is a legislative gap and, therefore, a failure to establish it. The proposed provision defines the position of the President and also of the members of the Council. Therefore, this Council can function in order to resolve issues arising out of the activities of ships in a dynamic network of maritime transport. Themes and specific gaps of Law 4504/2017 are also regulated, which relate to the classification in the Schools of Pointers of the Port Body, as well as of the Port Guard Testers, candidates introduced with the new system of pan-Hellenic examinations and, also, issues relating to the temporary transfer of the School of Port Guards and the operation of the specific School at the premises of the School of Permanent Officials of the Navy in Saramagas. Because at the moment the Port Guard Testing School is in a process of complete renovation. It is therefore impossible for this school to function at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he is prepared to do so. We are also looking for Minister Livano, because he has a similar amendment, from what we have been informed by the General Secretariat of the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, can we not talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u257	No, of course not. You'll talk if you've taken the floor. Please, Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not only speaking to you as a member of the First Athens constituency, but above all to you as an old Exarchitor. There I lived for twenty-eight years, Stournaris Street and Stournaris Street, then, where I and all of our family were forced to become internal immigrants, for exactly the same things that exist to date, not only the Exarchists, but generally the inhabitants of the wider area, this wonderful area, which has been destroyed today, of old urban Athens. It worked from St. Constantine, ran Acharnon and Patisias, crossed Mavromia. All these areas, for various reasons, but above all for this general slap over the last thirty years, have never been able to upgrade to the historical stage. I am therefore speaking today to express the remaining atrocious, unhappy, desperate residents, not only of the Exarchates, I stress, but also of the surrounding areas, who have not been entitled all these years to remain in their homes, to raise their children safely there, and not to be obliged to report every time we have had the very often incidents, the previous ones or the sudden ones, and to focus on relatives outside these areas, who have occupied them, what has been created by the 'institutional' product called asylum. We have all ended up here for what reasons the asylum has created the destruction of Athens' urban fabric in the region. So the Prime Minister has also rightly mentioned this parameter. We are not only talking about what is happening in universities, we are not only talking about the fact that all violations have spread into the region for one single reason: Darkness of crime is spreading when it has an outbreak. Crime has, unfortunately, found a focus mainly on the Polytechnics and the University School. Because if not all of them could have the home of drug trafficking there, they could be pimps, as we used to call them, protectors for the prostitution of minors, national and foreign girls, in Patisias since 11 a.m. at night, if the molotov storage facilities were not established there, the whole wider area would have the normality that it deserves. So I have nothing to add but to thank the government, the Prime Minister and, above all, the Minister for Education, who have given this breath by voting to abolish this dreadful system, the so-called asylum. I should also like to thank Mrs Kerameou and all the Members who want a free, clean, normal Athens in its center and ask a rhetorical question. I don't want an answer like anyone else. Tell me which country in the world is this kind of asylum. Thank you very much. And you will give me a prize, Mr President, for the shortest reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u259	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pipili. Mr Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's prime model, the municipality's central model, full control everywhere. A common denominator, the persecution of the unlikers and the recruitment of the best-beings. You go unsatisfactory, it's outraged. It gathers power, creates a closed circuit of its management and starts the party "The Days of the marmot". I said about the previous bill 'Deliver State of the mandates of the President of the Government of the Prime Minister, the absolute lord'. Why? Looks clear now. The Prime Minister and the Government are trapped in the triangle of election deals, commitments and secretaries? they've signed. Is that why they need a good button? the airtight closed system, strictly controlled, to attempt to do the deals, the notes signed in the absence of the Greek people. Prefecture, distribution, distribution and grabbing of power loots! We regretted that we were able to achieve one by one in the public sector, while you were pursuing and insisting on 'one by five'. Now, with the final state and the multi-project, we've figured it out. Now you have made it clear and we have misunderstood you. You didn't mean that five would leave, one would be hired. You meant that five posters would be recruited for every permanent civil servant who would leave. Now it has become quite clear. We're going to the relevant local reports. In fact, I saw some reports that they were confusing in time. They'll try, they'll create, they'll create. What do they create? What hasn't been implemented yet? The system with which the Greek people went and voted in municipal elections, which has not yet been implemented, creates problems and consequences? In fact, I wonder, having and tabling the reports by both the former and Mrs Papaspyrous, who may be on the way, reports for 2014 and 2015, in relation to corruption in the Greek public. Corruption champions, municipalities. I am tabling the report by Mr Rakinzis, the former: municipalities and communities 83.1%. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If I call on Mrs Papaspyrou, you will tell me that you have chosen Mrs Papaspyrous. The report by Mr Rakindzis says: 'Counters in corruption again'. It is the 2014 report. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] "Decreased the indicators of corruption in the public sector in 2015, but still the municipalities remain first in a number of cases," says Ms. Papaspyrou. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I wonder: Have the system of mere analogy rendered the municipalities champions in corruption? The simple analogue system created a man, the mayor, who's all but slaughtered them, and that's why we got to this level of recording, 83.1% to be in the municipalities, to self-government the phenomena of corruption, in relation to the rest of the public sector? At the same time, how do you think by law to change the results of the municipal elections, to rewrite the local power correlations, falsifying the popular will, which it voted on, knowing the law that you are retrospectively changing? How do you retroactively change the rules of the electoral democratic process? And two of the following questions: How will you deal with the possible flooding of the affected persons, who went with the previous law, have there been the results, there have been elections, and now you are changing them back? And the second: How will you manage the political system, if tomorrow, with another relation, central, political, will it have to change again after the elections, the rules that were in place, for the elections to take place? You're giving a very bad example. I come to the issue of asylum. Democracy in municipalities only for minority, democracy in universities only with the police. Between immunity - condemned - and repression - and condemned - the two extremes, there is also the principle of the measure, in this case, of the active intervention of the living and refreshing university community. We're not what we're saying. We're what we do. You're saying the P.D.P.D. has 50% power in the university. Well done! So let her take responsibility for 50% for what is happening and has just been described by the Prime Minister, and let her do so the participation of the refreshing and living university community, which is not devoured, as we have seen and intervened. Because it is not only the violence of illegal behavior that tramples the rules of dignity and dignity and introduces mafia behaviour within the university to deal with them. I put it in the Minutes: 'Blue' copying network via facebook'. Where? To the ASA, which you denounce and welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Comrade, you've reached six minutes. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u262	I shall end in a few seconds, Mr President. I would also like to say this about the Minutes: 'Circuit of mass copies from the IGC via facebook'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Will the Minister of Education also take a position on this? These phenomena, which are essentially another procedure of violence and violation of any code of values, will be dealt with? It's now clear and what you're answering to over two hundred academics...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u263	Journalists don't stop at all! You and Mr. Bogdanos take your own word in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u264	No, in any case, Mr President. No, not at all. I fully respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u265	No, you don't respect him. You've reached seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u266	I fully respect time and leave Stepma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u267	Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u269	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to place myself on two amendments: the first is the amendment by the Minister of State of Mr Gerapititi, which concerns the National Intelligence Agency, which increases the position of sub-commanders from two to three, and which has been tabled for this bill. There is also an amendment from the Ministry of Interior, which has a number of small provisions, including: to be able to meet by teleconferencing the municipal council in island municipalities, which concerns one or two municipalities in Greece. It also concerns an issue, which is an old provision, which is renewed every year and gives the opportunity to the first grade TOs, to the municipalities, to be able to finance the program "Family and Professional Life Harmonization 2019-2020" from their own costs if they have not been financed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u271	Is ‘Help at Home’?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u272	I think it is the "harmonization" that is the vouchers for children's stations. So these have come as an amendment and because the House is closed and it needs to be adjusted to get the programme started smoothly, so it has come too late and I apologise for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u273	Mr Taradilis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u274	I would like the floor for a minute, Mr President, for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u275	Here you go, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u276	Minister, is the amendment which has nine paragraphs and regulates certain matters of municipal staff? Is that an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u277	I'll try to tell you what he's saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u278	Wait a minute, 'cause he doesn't just have what you're saying. And I have the feeling that the teleconferencing thing doesn't have it. If that's her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u279	Wait a minute. The amendment concerns, firstly, the body of the Hellenic Republic, the municipalities - it is not the investment - which says that three seats were set up for the municipal body in the Greek park. The second paragraph allows newly elected mayors and regional mayors to designate, in addition to a municipal store, another place for their vows. The third paragraph concerns a small number of municipal councillors elected and employed by the municipality, who now, since they are not responsible, should either resign from municipal councillors or from their work in order to be able to perform one of the two tasks. That's what's in the districts. The provision for municipalities is made in the same way. The fourth paragraph is a provision which existed before the 'CALKARATI', which only allows an independent municipal or regional councillor to take up a position of vice-president or thematic vice-president. The fifth paragraph is funeral expenses, which had not been foreseen by the 2006 Code for municipal and local consultants, so that they could be covered, to be made public expenditure by the relevant OTAs. The sixth is an interpretative device, to prevent a few stickers. Some heretics have an ex officio position in some legal persons governed by public law and occupy this position, because of their office, that there is no corresponding emblem. The seventh is an incentive to red tape, if the Bosnian Regional Director has been re-elected, if the secondment procedure had to be reintroduced, so that there is no problem with these officials who are serving in his office. The eighth is the one for their teleconferences in the island municipalities. And the ninth is what we said about "The Harmonization of Family and Occupational Life". There were the years 2016-2017, 2017-2018, 2018-2019 and entered 2019-2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u280	Mr Taradilis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, because of the limited time, I will concentrate mainly on Article 64. First of all, starting with my speech, I would like to mention that the public university is the place that has significantly shaped me as a person and highlighted me. At the Greek public university I studied and served it for about twenty years as a university professor, as well as from various administrative posts in this period. The public university has awarded me, my students, my colleagues have honoured me - I shall dare say - on occasion. And because of my professional status, let me use some of the science of the administration, to give you my own perspective of how academic freedom is linked to asylum. Golden rule in general in the decision-making process to achieve an objective is that the decision is to take account of the environment within which the instrument is to be applied, in order to achieve the objective pursued. In other words, we are introducing three concepts. The first concept is the concept of the environment, the second concept is the objective pursued, and the third is the instrument chosen to achieve the objective. It is obvious that, when the environment changes, it changes the instrument, even when the target remains the same, that is, even when the target is a time-consuming target, a fundamental objective. But let's go see how this framework of thought, which I'm describing to you, can be used to interpret this relationship of academic freedom and asylum, not only now, but also in the past. In 1982, PASOK established university asylum as a means of achieving a fundamental objective. Who? Obviously the protection of academic freedom. Today, the aim of protecting academic freedom is obviously fundamental and remains the same. But the environment has changed radically. Why has he changed radically? We note that we now have forty-five years of parliamentary democracy and also, in recent years, there has been an upturn in the phenomena of violence within universities, violence against teachers, students, managers, citizens, guest speakers and so on. It is truly regrettable for us, who are working at the public university, that we have worked at the public university to see the public university as being, being exploited - I can say - as a safe house or a fortress, in short, asylum as a safe house or as a forerunner. In fact, I think these two concepts of any democratic citizen are two concepts of shocking, I dare say. Ladies and gentlemen, it is characteristic that in recent months - I will not go into depth - we have all witnessed unnecessarily, systematic and repeated violence with real phenomena which are appalling. I should like here to address my dear SYRIZA colleagues, whom I have heard for two days, both in the committees and in the House, to express the view that the phenomenon is on a small scale and that it is in three - four universities. I wish that was true. Unfortunately, it's not happening. I have been to all of these universities for twenty years, working with colleagues in all universities for twenty years, and unfortunately I have seen with my eyes such phenomena of violence in all the universities. Of course, it goes without saying and I am sure that there is no human in Parliament, which does not agree that all these incidents are brutally undermining the good of academic freedom. However, there is one issue here. All these phenomena of violence since 1982 and then you know very well that they are not phenomena that will cause the police to intervene automatically. So what happens, according to the Gavroglou Act? The Gabroglou Act tells you that the Republican Council will be convened and will decide. Here I have some important questions. Question number one: On what criteria will the Rector Council decide? Secondly, is it possible for university bodies, such as the Rector Council, to be diverted from their academic mission in order to become criminal detectors and interpreters of provisions of the Criminal Code? Of course not. Of course, we must not miss anything very serious, namely that in the democratic constitutional state everyone has the self-evident right to direct access to the competent authorities to safeguard their legitimate rights, without any coma, without intermediaries. Anything else is unconstitutional. In conclusion, I would like to say - and I firmly believe that the provisions of Article 64 of the bill, given the circumstances, but also to link it to the original framework of thought, are indeed an effective means of achieving the fundamental objective of protecting academic freedom. These new provisions obviously do not discover the wheel. They see the great picture and harmonize the Greek public university with international practices. There is nothing different from abroad. The provisions of Article 64 are an important step, obviously not the only one, in order to regain the role that the university must play in our homeland. What role? The university as a dynamic, refreshing, vibrant, open community. The word 'community' is very important. We owe it to our students, our parents, to society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u282	Thank you. Mrs Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u283	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill, which will be a motto for the historical and legal mottos of the future, a monumental piece of legislation of anti-democracy and an excellent example of law that circumvents the popular will. On 26 May, the people voted to every party, which was forty-five days later, and to despise the result of the poll, but you are changing the way in which committees and decision making are being set up and, at a local and regional level, subjugating the councils, elected by the people to the mayor and the district manager, that is to say to a single representative, a logic that has been tested in the past and which has raised a number of well-known diseases in local government. I will not go further on this because many colleagues have spoken from SYRIZA too. I should like to refer to Rule 64, which deals with university asylum. So what is the honourable Minister doing in the first bill, in this bill containing fragmentary articles on education? It is dismantling university asylum by making arguments that are unresponsive to public debate. You claim that once asylum is abolished, crime will be reduced. But, in 2011-2017, with effectively abolished asylum, under the Diamantopoulou Act, we have had a reduction in this infraction, yes or no? The answer is, of course, no. No such evidence supports such a claim. Infringements are not multiplied or undermined by asylum. Infringibility and violence are multiplying by unemployment. Violence and violence are multiplying by the lack of social policy, social policy, which you are attacking even more after your election announcement that you would abolish pre-emptive benefits. You remember the dilemmas you put before the Greek people. You said benefits or growth, you said the Latin American countries were giving them the benefits. What should I think of? I wonder, in Germany, where you like her so much, don't they give benefits there? Is Germany a Latin American country? What can I say? Infringibility has its roots in the lack of openness and perspective for the poorest social classes, that is to say, issues that are not dealt with, only with policies to strengthen social mobility and with policies to redistribute wealth, ideas that you don't like very much. Instead of dealing with the causes and routes of crime, either the common criminal or the 'white collars', you are proposing asylum. Promote asylum to disorientate the debate, propose asylum to throw ashes in the eyes that, supposedly, you will do something for security. And yet you know, in fact, you're just pushing off the drugs a little bit. This will be the supposed success of the police, who so far deliberately avoided interference, even though the law gave her the opportunity. Also, instead of dealing with the real issues of education, for which obviously your vision is to become even more classic, so that children from the most populous, poorest neighbourhoods in Athens are necessarily cooled and children from other neighbourhoods become fatally paid by various major companies and perhaps the government Presidency, what do you show us in your first education legislation? The abolition of asylum on the one hand and the annulment of the establishment of the Law School of the University of Patras on the other. It is a cancellation that you know very well that favours private colleges, both inside and outside the country, which provide a degree of law, but since the customer has to pay. You also claim that, thanks to asylum, drug trafficking outside academic areas is being done unpunished. That's a deep hypocrisy. Ladies and gentlemen, you know much better than I do that, in fact, drug trafficking is a felony and its repression is not bound by asylum. Other authorities here must explain why traffic has not been dealt with this long, even though the legal framework has allowed it to be completely allowed. The police only had to ask the Prefecture if it was a flood, or he intervened immediately. So I repeat what I asked you and the committee to do, but without answering, how many times did the police have asked to enter a university facility in order to intervene in the crimes and was prevented by the Republican authorities? Not once. How many times, on the contrary, did the Republican authorities request the intervention of the police without responding? The answer is “many times.”
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u284	Please be quiet. Madam Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u285	I still have thirty seconds to count. In fact, I am asked a question about the hearing of bodies the day before yesterday in the committee that, after speaking, the police spoke, left, did not hear anything and did not answer questions concerning asylum! Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the New Democracy announcement on the abolition of university asylum does not only serve the police rule at universities, which it supposedly does not want. The truth is that it prepares the ground for its great proclaimed objective: the privatization of higher education. However, as you will see, ladies and gentlemen of the government, these plans will not be accepted by Greek society. Once again SYRIZA with Alexis Tsipras, along with the Greek people, will ruin your plans, your plans and those plans of interests that are costing behind you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u286	Mr. Kyranakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today is a very long and important day. It's the day when we take the first step to build the universities of the next decade. This is the day that one of the most flagrant commitments of the New Democracy is taking place. It is the day when the Greek Parliament votes so that the children who gave to the Greeks this year will be the first generation to enter universities without asylum. And I could not imagine a greater honour as a new Member of Parliament one of the first bills I have today to vote for is precisely the abolition of asylum, for which I personally have been striving for as a student in public university, having to deal with the occupation professionals, some of whom are leaving and now leaving the Chamber. The only public area without asylum of ideas is the Greek university. Anywhere else you can say your ideas freely. Only in the Greek public university can you express yourself freely. Mrs. Christidou, because I have heard you, the law provides that the dean authorities are informing the police and requesting the police to intervene, not the other way round. It doesn't require the police to intervene. But because I have heard a lot of criticism of the so-called police rule and because I have seen it threaten that by abolishing the asylum all of a sudden our universities will become police officers, do you really imagine the role of a police officer? The two officers you have next to you, SYRIZA colleagues, and follow you where you're going, some of you have had more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u288	I have one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u289	You have one. Some of your colleagues and as ministers had twenty and twenty - five and thirty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u290	And Mitsotakis has seventy! Why don't you say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u291	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u292	Is that the respect, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, against the role of the police officer protecting your security? Really, what's the cop doing next to you? Does it stop you from moving your ideas freely? What is the policeman here doing right here to protect your own security? When the police are protecting the life and physical integrity of SYRIZA Ministers, are they good, but when they are to protect the lives of thousands of students, of your own children, are they bad? Get a little serious there on SYRIZA! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] However, this vote for the abolition of asylum, self-evident in the 21st century, is not so much the majority of fifty - eight Members of the New Democracy. It is the vote in the name of some young people who have suffered the consequences of asylum and are now sending their own response. It is Dimitris' answer, twenty-two-year-old law student, with motor problems, who in April 2016 was brutally hit by chains by a group of foreign-driven anarchists because he says he was confused with another. It is Christina's answer, twenty-two years old, student of political sciences in Kapodistrian, which in February 2018 fell victim to violent robbery within the school by drug addicts. It is George's response, a eighteen-year-old student, who, reacting to the occupation of his school at the Polytechnic in 2017, was found in the hospital after a male anarchist attack with helmets. It is the answer of Constantina, a 20-year-old student at the University of Athens, who in January 2017 fell victim to armed robbery around the school by two drug dealers, who acted and continue to act even today within the school area. It is Dimitris' answer, a young man with disabilities and activist for those suffering from cystic fibrosis, who in 2017, taking part in a conference and trying to move his ideas freely, was beaten by retardants because they reacted to what they heard at that event.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u293	They were FADs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u294	They weren't Daphne, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u295	What if he was a DAD, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u296	It is the answer, my dear colleague, of a whole generation asking for justice, because with your tolerance you have punished every child who has given a great personal struggle to go to a public, not private, university, a Greek public university. You have honored the children who chose to stay in Greece rather than leave abroad and today these children give you their answer, to those who, ten years ago, ended up in the way I want the schools, built careers as professional squats and ended up becoming ministers and Prime Ministers. Today, therefore, it ends the asylum with the mandate of the Greek people, who voted for us to abolish it and give the next generation what we did not have the pleasure of tasting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u297	Mrs Catherine Papacosta has the floor from the New Democracy. The Secretary of State for Education, Mr Digalakis and the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Mr Arabatzis, will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank all the Trikalins and Trikalins who have surrounded me with their confidence and have honoured me by being here today on the benches of the Greek Parliament. This House, with its current composition, represents the will of the citizens in real time. And the present government has consciously chosen this bill to be voted on in accordance with the urgency procedure. And there is a strong symbolism, ladies and gentlemen, that this government's current draft law includes a provision that strengthens the concept of asylum. The present, and under the vote, shields the free movement of ideas, academic freedom in research and teaching. Our aim is to strengthen, restore asylum in its true sense and upgrade the quality of the academic environment. We will achieve this by limiting criminal offences committed either within or outside the universities and by the perpetrators they have refuge within the universities. Unfortunately, today, if there is a place in which one cannot speak freely, because he is afraid that someone can attack him for his opinions, this is the Greek public university. Our aim is to protect the academic community as a whole, students and teachers, so that they can express themselves freely and without hindrance. There can be no free movement of ideas until criminal offences are punished within the university space, which must be treated as ordinary public authorities, as regards the exercise of powers by the police and the public prosecutors. So, focusing on the critical change brought about by this bill and which is no other than the upgrading of the quality of the academic environment, one can see that in fact Article 64 is about defending and shielding academic freedoms, in an area which is extremely important to be surrounded and managed by people who will know that they have freedom of dialogue, teaching, research and scientific thought, without the barricades of illegal anti-democratic and trabucist behaviours. Our political will is clear. Asylum will be given the form it needs today to be sensible in its importance and will stop enclosing within it the distortion which makes our several higher institutions below the Europeans. If anyone tries to do an investigation into what is going on in the rest of Europe in relation to European universities, it will find that all that we are discussing here today has been solved for decades. Suffice it to say that in most European universities after eight o'clock the doors are sealed and access is not permitted to anyone. Even last lectures end in time to close the university at the scheduled time. In addition, the entry and exit of students and teachers are permitted only by demonstrating the university identity. In the European area where its pillars are based on the foundations of respect, freedom and rights, the concept of asylum is a normality and does not derogate from the norm of life there. This preserves the sense of security in universities, continues their proper operation and, of course, prevent acts of violence and lawlessness. Anything Greek about asylum seems inconceivable, as Greek teachers say abroad. In order for our country to gain the educational and academic basis we aim to start from the legislative base and the necessary changes, so that, by preventing the violence of intimidation and uncontrolled action in the field of universities, the quality of the academic environment can be upgraded and act as a substitute for development and progress. This article redefines the concept of asylum and restores it to its logic. The genuine will of our fellow citizens to protect the university community, our public property and our children is expressed. A sense of security is founded on our universities and a democratic shield is being created in the freedom of speech and in the free movement of ideas. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President. From now on university asylum has become what it has always been intended to be. That is why the debate on asylum is not a debate of opinion, it is not a mere ideological disagreement, nor is it related to the perspective from which each of us sees things. It is essentially a conflict between progress and regression, a conflict between freedom and tolerance to infraction, a conflict between Greece of tomorrow with everything that has failed us. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, is a basic pre-election commitment of the New Democracy and our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. There was in our programme and it was analysed by all the executives in every corner of Greece. It is a proposal for a law, therefore, which the citizens knew, understood, made it their own and voted in favour of each and every one of them in the ballots on 7 July. Today, with this bill, we are putting an end to the guilt that has become now. Today, in voting for this bill, we are putting an end to the poorly understood asylum, so that our universities can finally find their footprint for the uninterrupted dissemination of knowledge and the exercise of research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u299	The Secretary of State for Education, Mr. Digalakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u300	I thank the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen, university asylum was legislated in 1982 with a more symbolic aim, that democracy is strong and guarantees academic freedom. Since then the concept of asylum has been abused. Asylum has gradually become ideological, it has become a tool not to facilitate dialogue, but to impose minority opinions. It became an impediment to cover up the phenomenon of violence, immunity, trabucism and their own perpetrators. We have now come to talk about this in terms of common criminal law, the destruction of public property, trade, theft and drug trafficking. What free movement of ideas are we talking about when hoodiers and cranes are threatening to be beaten by teachers at the university, when hoodier groups are invading the offices of firearms, threatening, abusing, desecrating the space with sprays, spasms, just because the police were legally invoked to prosecute the blockage from the campus. What free movement of ideas are we talking about when certain groups of students forbid teachers and students to do their homework in order to serve purposes which have nothing to do with the academic environment, when jewellery submits their resignation in fear of threats, prejudices or even physical violence against teachers and officials, when the "Ruvikon" occupies an office in a university, is removed from the university and taken over again? And that was only one day after the conclusion of the Panel on Asylum and Infraction in Universities. It is a finding that called on institutions to grant spaces to collectives and the previous Minister of Education had described it as excellent. Ladies and gentlemen, these are only facts. I removed the names of universities from a very long list, because I did not want them to be heard in this Chamber. I am therefore addressing those of you who are opposed to the provision we are proposing, and I ask you: would you ever agree that the House should meet with the Members of Parliament who are excluded and hostage by some collectives in Parliament, under the threat that Members will not leave the room unless they legislate in a way that is good for minority groups? Would you accept that the courtyard space of the House should become a blocking place? And if you do not accept these for the House, the temple of democracy, how do you accept them for the universities, the temples of education? Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Change Movement, it is essentially proposed to reintroduce the provision of Law 4009, which provided for the implementation of the common legislation on the premises of IGCs in cases where criminal offences are committed. I do not hide that Law 4009 was generally a good law, and as a dean it was one of the reasons why I was forced to deal with the administrations of the university. A significant difference, however, from the provision we are proposing, is that Law 4009 did not cover the issue of asylum, but only the action after the offence was committed. I have two personal examples since my term of office as a dean. First case: Daily presence of members of the collective nature of nonuniversity, outside the area of dean, when I had requested evacuation of a occupied building of the Polytechnic University of Crete. For a month, I couldn't go to my office. Second case: Abuse of a member of the academic community in the institution by a drug addict. In both cases, although I requested preventive measures from the competent authorities, it could not be provided. I also intended to talk about the issues of the Law School of Patras and the two-year-olds. The Minister has covered it, and I want to save the meeting time. I am therefore not going to talk about this. In closing the asylum issue, I wanted to say that we need to protect our universities, workers, our children and public property. This demand finds a response to the majority of society. It is contained in the popular mandate we have received, supported by most of the budgets, supported by the University Teachers' Association, POPAP, and we need to move on for two main reasons. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Firstly, the current situation is not progressive. It's anachronism, an ideal residue. Progress is a truly open university, safe, innovative, creative, modern. Secondly, the current situation is deeply classic, because the first victims of this state of lawlessness are the children of the middle and populaces who have no choice but to look forward to the public university in order to claim their dreams and their future. As far as what has been said before and as regards the classification of our universities is concerned, I would like to say that our universities have a really considerable scientific potential. It is true that occasionally there are discrepancies and the distinction previously mentioned concerned the distinction between a section and an international classification. Such discrimination can be seen quite often because of the poles of excellence that exist in our universities. However, in total our universities are absent from high positions in international rankings. For example, right now in one of the most valid rankings we have only one university in the first five hundred universities in the world and another five in positions from 501 to 1000. Children of all classes, in particular middle and low, must be able to study at public universities, which are classified among the best of Europe and the world, in universities that are not disfellowshipped from society and the market. Their association with them will benefit from the progress of applied research, the creation of quality and better paid jobs, and will also encourage young graduates to take entrepreneurial and knowledge-based initiatives. We will upgrade our universities, based on our efforts, our evaluation, the extroversion and the strengthening of the self-employed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Minister. Pending Mrs Arabatzis, we should give the floor to Mr Papadimitriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u302	It would be pleasant, I imagine, for everyone to talk about the e-state, about the state cloud and all these nice things that are present in the draft law and which I hope at some point we will see. It would be very nice to deal with this, but, unfortunately or luckily, I will deal with what we have all dealt with, namely Mrs Thanos and the asylum. I say that with Mrs Thanos I would not have intended to deal with it, but there is one thing I would definitely like to say. Mrs Thanos had the opportunity to leave a name behind, no matter what she had built it, whatever objection each one of us had. He lost her. She lost her insistence to extend her retirement year, from her insistence to become the Prime Minister's advisor on matters that we never knew who she was. I would really like to know at some point what the issues Mrs Thanou handled at the Prime Minister's office, what contacts she had to make, what difficult situations she had to deal with, so that the Prime Minister could respond to promises or difficult situations in which he had now been found. I do not understand why the President of the Ice Bay needed to resolve such cases. Nevertheless, insisting on and wanting to find another job below and being this Committee on Competition, which has again been told by the Prime Minister here, has raised issues which have been resolved in a way, let me say, around the substance - insurance measures, not direct to the penalty, not directly to the solution, not to get involved with Brussels - is making the whole case of the reorganisation of the Competition Committee a necessary move. In this sense, I think that the matter is now well resolved, rather than leaving it later, when matters seriously of the Competition Committee would complicate the situation. So let me come to the asylum. I belong to a generation that we used the asylum as a kind of consciousness or arrangement with our conscience, because we wanted it. We really wanted to. We passed the dictatorship. It was obvious that we wanted a guarantee that this would never happen again. But today, so many years later, can the Vice-Presidents insist that he has any substance when compared to the hall of a municipal council, an artistic link and even a provincial cafeteria, freedom is to what I have mentioned to you and not at all to the university? The asylum has become to restrict freedom at the university, rather than to protect it and strengthen it. I think that only we should discuss the fact that there is a fear and that there is a need for a special law, in addition to the provisions that are quite rightly formulated, as it is stated against, let us say it, a Constitution - even though the Constitution itself does not think there is any reason to identify it - total freedom, it is absolutely guaranteed and there must be no reason to identify it separately. Except maybe for a reason. The most important reason - and I understand it absolutely - is that the myths are made of hard pastes. The myth that asylum is the left and no one else is the most important reason why you are defending this myth. You want to be his owners. You want to be able to sell it, repeat it, and that is why you are defending it, so that you can go and tell the youth that "I defend it, the Right does not defend it". Why is it going to happen the next day? Because there are, I'm not saying there are, and there are those who say 'no, at last, the police will be able to get in'. No more untrue, but no more dangerous, if anyone on any side thinks of this, that the police will be able to shut up whenever they like and enforce order. We would have no reason to support it. The police have no reason for colleges. He has reason, however, when someone wants to defend themselves and is not going to get caught in his hands. If Charakopoulos hurts me, I won't go and get the hands. I'll tell the police to come get Charakopoulos, if that's what I think. This is how things have to be done everywhere in Greece. That's how it's going to be in universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u303	Charakopoulos has immunity!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u304	The example is completely random. I'm obviously not at risk from Mr. Charakopoulos. So I think that this notion of the myth, which the side of the counterpopulation defends, is good to leave it and all together to say: "It was myth. It's over. After so many years of post-population, we must at last feel safe that the ideas of freedom and freedom of ideas are everywhere defendable, without either the police or the students' 'bachelors', if you like, being groups. When 2% imposes its will on the remaining 98%, something goes wrong. So I don't think the concept of asylum was necessary. Did he need the young student Alexis to take a high school occupation? I never had to. He didn't have an asylum in high school, and yet he did his job, and he did it very well, as it turns out. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally - and I thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance - I would like to say that there are responsibilities here, for which everyone will be invited to count. The administrations of the universities were, of course, covered behind all this evil sabotage that has always been done with asylum. The police itself was covered by saying 'I can't do anything'. The student groups themselves and the majority of them did not demand a stricter enforcement of university freedom. So it's a crisis for everyone. Everyone will be involved in this new freedom, which the universities did not have, and they finally acquire, the real asylum of ideas. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u305	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that in a few minutes the President of Parliament will inform the House of the procedure. I would also like to announce that we are waiting for Mrs Arabaji. We have been informed that he will make an intervention. We're waiting for him to talk. Mrs Anagnastopoulou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much Mr Papadimitriou. He made a lot of things clear to me. Myth was the sanctuary, and he passed. That is the essence of the matter. He said very clearly, very well, that the police aren't going to shut up like this, just like the police won't shut up at any university in the world like that. So asylum is the problem. What's university asylum? Do you know the definition given by the Aristocratic Menesis? Unless Manesis is also myth, he's backwards and we let him pass. Manesh gives a definition that's amazing. It says that asylum is inextricably linked to university freedom and the university's self-employed. It's inextricably connected. There is no university freedom without the elementary background, the university's societal character: a unity of university, administrative, students. Do you know what asylum does and bothers the New Democracy and the Minister of Education? Asylum evacuates its members into negotiation, at a consensus. As academic freedom, knowledge and research require continuous overthrow and renegotiation, the exercise of democracy requires continuous renegotiation. Yes, Mr. Papademitriou, it's the left-wing conquest of the university asylum. The Right has always fought it forward and post-military. Let's get this over with. I should like to imitate the Minister for Education. First, according to the existing law, the law in force for a few more hours, until it is abolished with the new police on their own initiative, intervenes, intervenes in universities, when it comes to felonies, felonies and crimes of a felony and, of course, crimes against life. He intervenes on his own initiative. So it's a myth, drug trafficking, unless we don't know in this room that drug trafficking is a felony. The police are intervening on their own behalf. You cannot speak generally and vaguely. The Prime Minister told us that a young student is going and watching drug trafficking. I have the great honour for twenty years and more - I've been a little too old - to be a member of the university community at a university like Panteion, I mean in the wider center of Athens. Why didn't I ever see a drug deal in front of me? And if the traffic were to happen, why didn't the police intervene on their own? In all other things, defects, trespasses, and all that, the legislator is evaporating the community into negotiation. There's an occupancy. He's evicting her into negotiation. The start of negotiation is practicing young people in democracy. This is a very important thing. So, in asylum, a great democratic tradition is concentrating on this country. I hear you these days, and I do, too, as a left-wing and progressive, allow me the expression, "I'm being fun" in fact. "Let's finish with this backward thing that doesn't exist everywhere." Since when is tradition a backward thing? So is the asylum backwards? Aren't tutors in the school backward thing? It's not a backward thing, catechism and functionality, our asylum is backwards. And I want to say one thing about France because I studied at the best universities in France. I would like to say that today the great debate in France, following the radicalization of youth, is about where our democracy has been. Because our young people are not trained in democracy. Because in democracy no one is trained from above, with repression. It is a constant negotiation. That's what our universities have taught us. We have an important tradition within this important tradition - something that disturbs the New Democracy - has produced an unbearable memory, the one that is physicalized in this society and the memory of democracy. It's not easy. We have to defend her. There are problems in college, I'll say it. The answer is not the abolition of asylum. A young New Democracy MEP spoke about the students we need to apologize for entering universities and meeting this situation and injured, etc. For the thousands of students who cannot graduate because of the higher tuition fees, which some have left completely uncontrollable, who will apologise? There's a big question. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a second. Minister, I would like to ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u307	He's not a young man. Your colleague is Mr. Kyranakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u308	I'm sorry, yes. I called him a young man, I didn't say it was bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u309	There was no mood...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u310	I didn't say that about harm, I just didn't remember who it was. I apologise to Mr. Cyranakis. I didn't do it on purpose.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u311	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u312	I'll be out in half a second. Minister, how do you do away with a school at a public university, when you ring at me personally if there is a Senate decision - there is a Senate decision - and if the bodies want it? There have been and have been for too many years. How, Minister, did you give me the evidence with the students leaving abroad?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u313	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you're in seven and a half minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u314	Thank you for your tolerance. So, how do these students say they can't go to a public university now? Legal does not produce lawyers, produce lawyers, and you should get back what you said about the Dean of the University of Patras, that he received consideration.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u315	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u316	I heard you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u317	Mr. President, may I? I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u318	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u319	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, with all due respect, you've known me for four years. You know I'm very careful when I speak in public. What did I say in public the other day? I said that there are complaints - I did not adopt them - that the establishment of the law of Patras was in the context of a broader agreement on the absorption of the TEI of Western Greece. That's what I said. There's publicity. So I don't have anything to get back. I said something that's in the public dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Minister. Mr Harakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u321	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on asylum and the obsession of the Officerial Response to the maintenance of a life-threatening institution is an opportunity to rethink what is conservative and what is progressive in this place, but I shall then refer to asylum. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government continues to surprise itself with the unprecedented legislative foundations of a great quality reform in the functioning of the state, either by correcting chronic distortions or by introducing new institutions. The previous government, on the pretext of the simple proportional electoral system - which for the Left has become fetish - without even the 3% entry threshold in force in the national elections, has led self-government to fragmentation of powers and paralysis. It is characteristic that after the self-government elections over two hundred mayors do not have a majority in their councils, with the case of the new Mayor of Thessaloniki, which has only six advisors in a total of forty-nine. We are talking about tragedies that actually cancel the work of the municipal authorities and make mayors and ultimately citizens hostages of micro-party and micro-participatory purposes. Did the government of Mr. Tsipras not know of the chaos that would be caused by the 'CLITHEN' vote? Clearly he knew and consciously sedated the next day in self-government. Conscious of the absence of SYRIZA's presence in local communities - as it proved to be in the elections - it has chosen chaos from marginalisation. This huge distortion comes to correct today's bill, which agrees with the most concerned, that is, the municipal and regional authorities. We have heard both the CEDEFOP and the EIA in the committee responsible. Equally an important issue resolved by this bill is that of the notorious university asylum, which, unfortunately, has been degenerated into an asylum, illegality and even crime. What, Mrs Readstopoulou, should first be reminded of the intercurrent events that only embarrass in a favored society? Why would he go to an event that he didn't like? The cries of anguish among teachers, students and employees of the same university for the prevention, sale and even the use of drugs within the institution in common sight? Protest letters from the University of Athens for fear of robbery? The collection of hundreds of signatures from Aristotle for drug trafficking within schools? The conversion of Metsovian Polytechnic into a vandal shelter that burns and breaks into the district of Exarches unpunished? The violence against students and even teachers in Panteion? So, are those who say that the Gavroglou law should not be changed do they consider it to be normality for universities? Ladies and gentlemen, let us finally land in today. As Mr Papadimitriou said earlier, forty-five years have passed since the fall of the dictatorship. Greece is a democratic country, a country in which freedom of speech is a given good, a country in which everyone says what they want, wherever they want and whenever they want. And under the provisions of the law we are voting on today, academic freedom is absolutely guaranteed, both in research and in teaching. What is being abolished - and it is a request from the vast majority of Greek society - is immunity, illegality and terrorism within universities. Particularly important are the provisions on the digitisation of pensions to speed up their performance to myriad pensioners, who are forced to wait for months - even years - for pensions without anyone asking how they are going to get through. Finally, I would like to dwell on the provisions of the Ministry of Health, which are aimed at alleviating our fellow human beings who have been suffering not only from their serious illnesses, but also from the inability of the state to take care of them in good time and with dignity the medication they receive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider these provisions to be a self-evident act of a civilised state and it is incomprehensible that we have been so late in doing so. Unfortunately, on behalf of the Officerate of Anti-Population, we are following an equivocal criticism, obsessed with outdated practices and the defence of chronic diseases, which the citizens condemned by their vote. The SYRIZA executives are clambled by the scarecrow of the "bad" Right, before even a month is passed from the clear, beyond all dispute, command of the Greek people towards New Democracy to turn the steering wheel of the boat otherwise. And that will be because the conditions have grown and the citizens are asking us to move forward, no matter how much the forces that want to be established in the past are shouting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr. Harakopoulos. Mr Gikalayas has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u323	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to live up a little, because it is also a mid-term, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, with all due respect for her, referred to a young colleague of our New Democracy and said that she was left-wing and progressive. It's a left one. It does not, however, mean that because it is left-wing, it is also progressive. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We start with our third bill today and prove that we've been ready for some time. Within three weeks of sworn MPs coming the third bill. After HNVIA, the hundred and twenty instalments, after the final state, as we said to the Greek citizens, we bring this bill, which is necessary. It is mainly necessary with regard to the issue of the Ministry of Interior, local government, and it is, of course, urgent for the 1st of September undertaken by the self-government 1st and 2nd degrees. We are consistent with what we always say. The first article of the Constitution says that the foundation of the culture is popular sovereignty. Of course both mayors and municipal councillors and regional and regional councillors in accordance with the principles of popular sovereignty, since they were elected proportionally, must be commanded. The way you have done it, the government of SYRIZA, which you have abstained, could not be run by the municipalities and regions at all. That's why the bill comes to restore order, what has to be done. That's what all mayors and regionals agree. We submitted our positions to the Greek people and approved them. That is why you have not won one of the thirteen regions of the country, as you have lost more of them. So we have the popular confirmation. What if we didn't pass the bill today? Let me remind you of something, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, because beyond my involvement with the central political scene - I was for three four years in the Municipality Council of Kastoria - I have a term of office in the student movement and in the student union. The main thing that led to the dissolution of the EUFO was the student party from which you come from SYRIZA, when at the Central Council of the EUFO you proposed a circular alternating Bureau. There has never been a presiding office of the OLAF, and since then the OLAF has never worked again. Did you want to have the same thing in the municipalities and regions? Should we have cyclical alternators per year mayor and district rulers? This is what we prevent with this bill and soon - until Christmas - as the Minister of the Interior has promised, we will bring in a bill that will solve the malfunctions between 1st and 2nd degrees of local government, but also in the decentralised administration, which we do not know whether there should be. I will not say much about what the Minister for Labour brings, who has indeed made a titanic effort by the end of 2014. If it had been completed, we wouldn't have had a problem with the country's insurance system today. But it assures us - and I am sure it is - that from July 2020 - 35% of new pensions will be paid digitally. I am sure that at the end of the four-year period many problems will be solved which harm the insured in all the funds. The same with other ministries, but above all, I would like to refer to the end of my speech on the issues of the Ministry of Education. Of course we are ensuring with this draft budget appropriations for deputys, appropriations for next year, for experimental and standard schools, CCT appropriations for 2019-2020. Article 64 finally abolishes university asylum in the way that there was asylum, which, as some have said, was not an academic freedom and free exchange of ideas and views, but was a molotov building, pre-collapsing, violence, teacher building and all that. The basic thing about the bill is that the space of the HEIs is assimilated to public spaces in terms of carrying out criminal offences. These, if you like, are also in the context of equality and equalisation. Of course, the Minister for Education is not here because I wanted to say two things about my region. Mr President, in the few seconds to two minutes, I have to say about the region of Kastoria, there will be a debate on the educational map in the country and the Architecture School in Kastoria, which was not held in the 2000s. They have responsibilities and responsibilities of our party that has not happened. Because Kastoria alone is an area where it has about eighty Byzantine and post-Byzantine churches and hundreds of mansions of unparalleled aesthetic and cultural value, we have programmed, there was a curriculum and this school, with a few students, worthwhile educational staff, which will contribute to the promotion of the area, to the protection of the cultural wealth that exists there. Thirdly and finally, Mr President, there is the Greek-German Youth Foundation, which has been decided by the SYRIZA Government and we, because we believe that the state is then in a position to function. The Germans decided to make Leipzig their seat on the side. We want Greece's seat to be in Kastoria. Because Kastoria has two clues. First, 10% of the population, who were Jewish Greeks, was destroyed by the Germans in 1944. Then there were a thousand Jews. There's a family left today. There was a holocaust in the Greek population, in Klissoura, by the Germans. There's all the evidence, there's been some discussions. I will bring it on time, both for the sake of regional development and all the same. I'll get it when it's time. That is why we are voting for the bill, and the government and we have shown that we have long been ready to contribute to the restoration and restoration of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u324	Mr. Haemaras Themistoklis is called in the New Democracy in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will support my first speech at the National Representation in personal assumptions, assumptions through real life, my own and most Greeks, who, with relief, see the initiatives of the new Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to be implemented. I have asked my compatriots to support me - and I thank them through my heart for this - so that I can work for my country with perseverance, patience and conviction that we will succeed. In fact now and in assumptions, we are at this very moment of time when the regeneration of the country is a one-way street. This regeneration will be based on strengthening entrepreneurship, exploiting our comparative advantages to create new decent jobs and not seasonal semi-employment. However, it is necessary to change a page and return to normality that we retain common sense and ensure self-evidentness at all levels of public life and its central pillar is education. Article 65 states that academic freedom, as well as freedom of expression and movement of ideas, are protected in all EHS spaces against anyone trying to destroy or restrict them. But what does freedom of expression have to do with broken benches, burnt rooms and molotovs? What does the free movement of ideas have to do with drug trafficking? Finally, let us all face up to what the world out there, unfortunately, thinks self-evident. The most famous asylum is, in fact, a violation of asylum. The Greek people do not need university asylum. Democracy also safeguards it in every inch of this country. It is necessary, however, by universities with freedom and autonomy, with extroversion and direct contact with the labour market, modern and appropriately equipped with new technologies and not with workshops for molotovs. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, having served my place in the past five years through local government as Regional Councillor and Vice-President of the Region of Central Greece, to tell you that I have been faced with dozens of problems facing our fellow citizens in their daily lives, problems calling for immediate solutions. In order to implement these solutions, however, municipal and regional authorities should be able to exercise management. And here the "CLOSITHENIS" is true that it created significant functional gaps and obstacles. Ask yourself what will happen in a municipality where the orders are unable to vote for a budget, how a project, an unforeseen snowstorm, will be paid for the fuel for the wastewater or heating of schools. This bill removes these obstacles without destroying the concepts of cooperation and dialogue in self-government. On the other hand, it relieves boards of abused controversy and leaves a vital place for constructive dialogue, by complication of instances, documentation of the rejection of the budget or technical programmes, strengthening the majority of the mayor or regional authority in committees and legal persons, so that the municipal or regional authority and the vote of the consultants are not the subject of a transaction. Ladies and gentlemen, separating logic from absurdity, putting clear limits on every voice of immunity, tearing the obstacles down is not an achievement, it is self-evident. And the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, all of us in the New Democracy are here to claim the self-evident things that each Greek and every Greek is entitled, to return to regularity, away from every evil of the past, to go together and equipped with all the supplies to Greece that are modern, fair and effective for us and especially for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, too, Mr Himara, especially for the time he has held. And Mrs. Sukulis Marilena is called to Step by New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u327	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted that my first speech to the Greek Parliament, following my highest honour to me by my fellow citizens in Corinthia, relates to matters that have been well-functioning and effective in an important pillar of the administrative organisation of our country, such as the Local Government, an institution that I have had the honour of serving in the last thirteen years with devotion, but above all with faith in the importance of the role that each self-government has in improving the living conditions of the citizens of our country. My political view was and remains that, in order to achieve the country's development and social regeneration, we must give the local government a vital place of action, in order to work with methodics to address well-defined problems in each region. Besides, if we look carefully at the administrative organisation of all the advanced states, it is easy to understand that OTAs are the main pillar of their development process. This, of course, is no accident. It is because local government at all levels can and must act quickly and effectively, where the central state cannot move likewise. Our government, in a timely light of the particular social issue, comes with determination and legislative documentation to address problems caused by the well-known sloppyness and political backwardness, with which the previous government has dealt with such an important issue for the Greek society. In particular, our Government intervenes before new authorities are installed in the problems introduced by KLITHENIS, ensuring self-evident, that is, the smooth and effective functioning, as is the case with the democratic mandate of the citizens. This is done in a substantial way by strengthening the majority of citizens' mandate not only for a particular institution but also for a programme, ladies and gentlemen. I think that's a democracy. Citizens have not chosen the immorality or the small-scale self-interest. On the contrary, they chose to implement immediately actions for the benefit of local communities to form a living cell for the creation, reconstruction and liberalisation of the enormous potential of each region. I think this is the real recognition of the important role of OTAs in reconstructing the country's development model. Because I cannot understand from my previous experience, but also from the actual performances I have in all these years on the prefectures and on the regional councils, how it is possible without obtaining a majority mayor or regional authority, particularly on the committees and on the legal persons - and Articles 2 and 6 - to implement a specific programme, however ambitious it may be, and ultimately not to stick to the valtons of feasibility and sometimes anti-institutional transaction. The bill correctly goes one step further and is provided for in Article 1 establishing a possibility of partnership between municipal and regional authorities. I don't think we're seeing conflicts and polarities here, as it sounded earlier. Substantial and programming cooperation between them is encouraged, but in terms of transparency, sound documentation and ultimately democratic sensitivity, which is also the case in Article 14, which I welcome. In particular, I would like to make the innovative initiative to strengthen the close relationship between the Secretary-General of Civil Protection and the ATT, Article 15, with the recruitment of a special advisor. I really consider this initiative to be very important, because I think that this role will be vital, even for volunteers, who now only remember them when the time is right. Of course, this is an initiative that has shown responsibility and seriousness from the government and the Prime Minister in a sensitive area that has really affected society in recent years. I support, support and would argue that the development of our country's competitiveness is hiding in the right exploitation of the comparative advantages of each region. Now is the time to proceed with acts ahead, and that is what I think our Prime Minister is doing, sending out a clear message of consistency and political will to give real solutions to the problems of citizens. A message of consistency made and the restoration of asylum. A consistency message that takes place and the end in the tails of shame in the pharmacy of the EEA. As a member of the Greek Parliament - and I shall end, Mr President - I will serve the concrete strategic attitude of our Prime Minister and our Government, with both the hard work and the creative contribution alone. This is my duty to the citizens and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u328	I would ask Mrs Theodora to take the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will try not to use all the time. In any case, it is my second speech in plenary following a very large process, as was the previous draft law that was passed on to the final state. In my short time I will try to draw three political conclusions from this one month and one day of New Democracy's governance, one month and one day that contained concentrated political time, many political results produced. Too much parliamentary material, this is a reality, especially for us young MPs and parliamentarians, MPs, regardless of what a woman is using here in Parliament. Too much material and too much burden, which does not justify this study of the government, in such a short time as to bring about such important bills. And why am I saying that? Today the whole debate, at least on the part of the New Democracy, focused on asylum, is a very important issue. But, as it was so important, why did it not isolated all the issues contained in the notorious multi-legislative - vacuum cleaner in different parliamentary areas and different procedures, so that we parliamentarians can read it, prepare better and possibly society can follow this whole process better? In any case, society and the citizens were not able to participate in this consultative process, because consultation and 'OpenGov', Ministers, were extremely pretextful, at least until now, as it has proved to be. I will give two - three political conclusions and a few examples, perhaps, to better understand us and those who are watching us from both our regions and from all over Greece. Both of the legislations you have brought both to the final state and to the notorious multilingual draft show that they are in absolute political harmony. There is a strong anti-democratic figure in New Democracy's way of governing this year. Really, why is there such a thing as that on your part? Do you think you're not gonna run out the four years to be able to implement this very well-designed plan you have in mind, or are you afraid that things will catch up with you? I am going to get a little caught by the issue of local government and the changes that are coming, which, in fact, distort the popular mandate given almost two months ago. You are attempting with micro-dispositions, condensations and assimilations to give full self-government to the power of those who have even a relatively small majority in this regard. This tactic, of course, leads to self-evident opposition, minority groups being alienated from any real self-government or management, so that democratic representation of voters, pluralism and the possibility of creating consensus is completely neutralized. Loss of equality of vote, loss of the principle of proportionality, and this is something that I bring to you as anguish and from my own region, the 2nd region of Thessaloniki, which has several villages. You know, we have the opportunity to go to the cafes - the local cafes are open and in women, women are not confined to a place at home - and they have brought me the following anxiety: why should a person who has not been chosen from the village itself be appointed as president of a community? And you know what they're telling me? This was on a junta in 1967. At that time, the commanders were appointed. Concentration, a centralised model in the exercise of local government by mayors and districtlors, over-concentration of powers in a prime minister. I shall refer a little to the example of centralism and how dangerous this can be, because - you know - over-concentration of powers, especially in the field of local government, can easily lead to what we call political irresponsible. And what am I saying? That over-concentration of powers can lead to political irresponsibility, which is the misuse of powers, and that is something that has actually appeared in local government. And if anyone has samples of history, because this is where the New Democracy - you know, you are being played for it - has more municipalities and regions, history has written that trials and convicts of abuse of power and misappropriation exist by blue mayors. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] [[Mr KONSTANTINOS TASULAS, President-in-Office of the Council, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council]] And I think you, because you were just burned in the barn, you should blow the yogurt. That was a lesson that was not only directed to you, but to the whole political system. As I am referring to the model of decentralisation in contrast to the model of over-concentration - I conclude, Mr President, I have been inconsistent in five minutes, I have not been able to present the important ones - and I shall refer to something that the New Democracy and the Mitsotakis Government have shown inconsistency. At first I welcomed this inconsistency, but it turns out that there is a consequence of inconsistencies. Two days ago, the government announced that it would continue to operate the Prime Minister's office in Thessaloniki. We also had an explanation from the government representative. Despite the political objections that one can have with the choice of the individual in relation to all these civil wars that he has occasionally stated, we welcomed the fact that the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis saw how important it is to keep this office in Thessaloniki not only for the city, but for all northern Greece and for Macedonia and Thrace. You know, we have incorporated this into a logical consequence of the whole perception of things, as New Democracy has handled them lately. I'm referring to the Macedonian. While you say that, a decision had been taken on 10 July with an FEK of 11 July, with which Mr Mitsotakis actually abolished this office. I'll tell you in the Minutes the FLOs. I would like to ask you exactly where Mrs Antoniou was appointed. That's not all, though. I will end with the following point: Yesterday I happened to be in a TV conversation with a dear colleague of the New Democracy, Mr Markopoulos - from Piraeus II is the man - who said: "We will see what will happen with the Prime Minister's Office. We will keep it until the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki and then see." I'm not saying it because it's from Piraeus and me the origin is from Toumba, nor is it a PAOK issue - Olympiacos, Ms. Vuldesi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u330	You've reached seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u331	Okay. I have watched you too in the misuse of time, and I apologise to the House. Really, what exactly will happen? Will the Prime Minister's office be left or left until the exhibition, and then we see? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u332	Before I summon Mr Nikolaos Papapas of SYRIZA, I have two communications to make to you, which need to be made in plenary. I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister for Justice has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 on the criminal liability of Ministers, as applicable, on 8-8-2019: Firstly, a criminal case file concerning the former Foreign Minister Nikolao Kotzias and, secondly, a criminal case file concerning the former Foreign Minister George Papandreou and Tasos Giannitsis and the former State Secretary for Foreign Affairs Euripides Stylianides. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announceing: (a) Doc: A5-0129/2000 Procedure : Codecision procedure (2nd reading) Debate : 12.05.2001 Page 128 13543/7768 of 8 August 2019 Decision of the President of the Parliament: ‘Recommendation and establishment of the Special Standing Committee for the Monitoring of the Social Security System’ (b) the Commission's proposal is in line with the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and with the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Page 128 13544/7769 of 8 August 2019 (c) Doc. Page 128 13545/7770 as of August 8, 2019, decision of the President of the Parliament: ‘Recommendation and establishment of the Committee on the State's accounts and general balance sheet and control of the implementation of the State's budget. The relevant decisions have been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u333	With regard to the issue of the opening of the roll-call vote, following the announcement of the pleadings of a typical importance and having to be made in plenary session, I would like to say that the roll-call vote requested by the Communist Party of Greece and by SYRIZA will start at six o'clock, that is to say in an hour exactly. Until then, we continue the directory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u334	Mr President, let me ask you something. Will there be a dentistry of rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u335	Oh, no. Because we have violated our expectations that we would be finished earlier, because we have waited for what I have announced to you, let colleagues speak, so that the list can be exhausted as much as possible. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u336	Thank you very much. Mr President, I will devote my speaking time to the burning issue of the Competition Committee. I would like to address the Members of the government majority who, when they hear salts and 'ninecamen's', should be concerned, because salts and 'ninecamen's' are heard when they put their arguments in or sink. When they hear'speak again in four years', they seem to worry twice, because the arguments cannot stand at the bottom of arrogance for the four years and it is not a good start that has taken place. I am afraid that for the government a majority of arguments have been over, as far as the Competition Committee is concerned. I am not saying that because all the anti-population forces disagree, I say this mainly because the Court of Justice disagrees with its confession. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Which country is in dispute? With Hungary. Who was Hungary's Prime Minister then? Mr. Orban. You're in the same party. Do not copy his practices. It was a trick of the European Court of Justice ruling. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] It was a big decision. He's suspended membership. You have done it as wicked, ready to bring him back to the state of full participation. So don't copy it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u337	What does it have to do with it? They didn't have Thanos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u338	Why are you upset?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u339	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u340	Well done. If you don't get upset, sit down and listen. So Mr. Orban ceased the members of the Independent Committee on Personal Data Protection and ate the condemnation to the head. I am tabling the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u341	What does it have to do with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u342	Do not tell me what it has to do with it, because - beware - in 2016, when we first went to order on the terms of office of the members of the Competition Committee, this decision was invoked by your officials as a case-law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u343	Yeah, but they didn't have Thanos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u344	But we will not have a dialogue like this, Mrs Vultimatis. We won't have a dialogue like that! Mr President, please have my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u345	Please don't interrupt. Mrs. Vulge, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u346	Mr President, my time when you return to the classroom the lively Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u347	Do not interrupt the speaker. We're wasting time. I'm gonna take off his seconds now. Here you go, Mr. Pappa, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u348	It therefore disagrees with the Court of Justice. This decision is a trick. We would like, I think, all to protect the country from a similar shame. The New Democracy of 2016 disagrees with its current attitude. I invite you to take, especially the new Members of the New Democracy, the Minutes, to see what Mrs Kerameos, Mr Dendias, Mr Fortsakis, supported in this Chamber. Of course there is also a little irony, because then there was almost a war in this Chamber on the amendment, with the essence of which the New Democracy agrees with in its draft report on Amendment 101. Do you know what the report says? That it is well maintained for first and second-degree relatives in relation to members of the Competition Committee and members of the Government, that is, what we had gone to do in 2016. You come back, you agree and you change your attitude dramatically in relation to the substance of the amendment. Does the New Democracy 2016 disagree only? No, Mr Kyritsakis, the supreme Chairman of the Competition Committee, also disagreed with the same case law at the time. And since we see that you are supposed to be having a problem in occupying a time sequence of justice officials who have served at the legal offices of Ministers in the Competition Committee, I imagine that the phenomenon of a person being Director of the Competition Committee and Adviser to Mr Mitsotakis would make you revolt. Take note of what I say to you, he is the Director of the Office of the President of the Competition Committee, Mr Mylonis, that is to say he passes everything through his hands, and at the same time he is advisor to Mr Mitsotakis. Listen to me. There is no independence, therefore, of the principle. Mr Mitsotakis also has the right to assume that he may then have had privileged information on the affairs of the Committee on Competition. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u349	You're your committee partner, you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u350	I come to this, so you don't think I'll avoid anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u351	Please, why should you interrupt?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u352	The former New Democracy invoked the case-law, as Mr Kyritsakis had invoked. But we are not in case-law right now. I will also present the announcement made by Mr Kyritsakis at that time, invoking precisely the same case-law and case-law of the European Commission as Hungary. Now we're not there. Now there is the European directive. And we heard some suggestions, what we have, he says, long before we put it into effect. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy Members, do not consider it accidental that the President of your party just now said in this Chamber that he has not contacted the Competition Commissioner. It is no accident, because in 2016 he had also sent a letter, but now I think there are reasons to avoid this type of communication. There is, therefore, European Directive 2019/1, which says that the conditions and reasons for the cessation and term of office of members of the Competition Committee must be laid down before the start of their term of office. And if that is not the case, the legislator should take steps to ensure the smooth completion of the term. What kind of precedent would that be, you know? So, we're gonna be able to come here every three months and change the independent authorities? I am tabling this directive in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned European directive, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go later now. Because things have been said about Mrs Vassiliki Thanos, I would like to say that Mrs Vassiliki Thanos has had a very specific course in the judiciary and for a few months she has been a legal adviser to the Prime Minister, then, Alexis Tsipras. Mrs Naku, whom you are bringing back to the debate, has thirty years of experience in the Competition Law, seven of which in the committee itself. My legal counselor has only served for twenty months. Three decades, therefore, of experience in the Competition Law, seven years in the same Competition Committee, because very easily here charges are being launched, I am not talking about the incoherence that we have members of our Central Committee there. All right, that's funny and I think that the MPs of the government majority, not us, but many of this wing, have started and understood how serious some things are, which people choose to say from here, the Step. There are these days in progress the investigation into the issue of press distribution. It's not secondary. Members of the Thessaloniki of the New Democracy don't worry, don't you know, don't you see that the newspapers in Thessaloniki go after 14: 00' at noon? Haven't you seen the papers? The distribution of the press is currently going through a very big crisis, and in three days' time the conclusion of the financial control for the press distribution agency will be held by the Competition Committee. How naive do we have to be so that we don't connect them? How wasteful are we and the world who listens to us? It is therefore a major issue. We call on you to withdraw this amendment because it is much better for you and the Greek Parliament and for the country as a whole to have a slight retreat, rather than a stumbling-up in time later. So protect the country from the possibility of such rupture. Withdrawal of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u353	Mrs Theano Fotio is called on the part of SYRIZA in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u354	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it has become clear now that the debate on the abolition of university asylum does not address the so-called problems of violence and iniquity that New Democracy sees at the public universities in the country. It is obviously the first ideological blow of New Democracy to the public Greek university. Of course the reasons have already been mentioned. In 1229, ladies and gentlemen, after a student fight in a tavern, the soldiers of the commander of Paris persecuted them, entered their student dorms and made arrests and violence. Then the Sorbonne professors declared a strike lasting three years. It was the first university strike, by the professors for their students, until Pope Gregory I issued a decree regulating the relations of the university and state. With this decree it was forbidden for students to arm the state to intervene and prosecute them without the university's approval. In 1232 Louis Will guaranteed the university's autonomy, and Sorbonne reopened. Three years off, Sorbonne. It's the first act that's held the university asylum. Academic asylum is recognised within the centuries which pass as a prerequisite for the three fundamental principles which constitute the university itself. What are the three principles? It is the preservation of freedom of research and teaching, the free movement of ideas and, thirdly, the protection of the right to knowledge and learning. These three fundamental principles have been enshrined by all post-government laws and yours. Now, today, without this assurance of the three fundamental principles, there is no concept of university. Why is that? Because the university, under the Constitution, produces and reproduces knowledge as well as its teaching body alone, that is, it manages teachers, knowledge and research. Otherwise, it's not a university. It's not a university! This is enshrined in two ways in Article 16, which New Democracy recently attempted to revise and failed during the constitutional revision. What's going on here today? The controversy which has been taking place here these days is whether the three fundamental principles which constitute the existence of the university are safeguarded by university asylum or by the abolition of it through the police. That's what's going on in here. The funny thing is that the same controversy took place in 2011. Then the government was PASOK's. He brought the law of Diamantopoulou. The New Democracy, led by Samaras, did not consent. Different consultations have been held - I will also present in the Minutes what has happened - and Mr Samaras has been convinced and the abolition of asylum in 2011 was voted for by two hundred and fifty votes. Until when? For six years, until 2017. In August 2017, not two years, i.e. now, SYRIZA's government reinstated university asylum. What happened in these six years? The violence and the lawlessness you say has been in the universities. How hypocrites will you be? How hypocrites are you? You're doomed to fail one more time. Why are you going to fail? Because it is necessary to protect the university's quinturity from the interventions of the political authority which established the institution of university asylum throughout the world. At the same time, with university asylum, the classic concept of asylum, the ancient Greek, that is, as a place of refuge for citizens and movements persecuted by power, was also operational over time. This was done with the premises of the Law and the Polytechnic during the junta. Because it was guaranteed, without laws, in collective consciousness as places then, in the junta, where the police could not intervene. This is the dual substance of university asylum, which you are now missing from the legislation of the country for the second time in post-collection. However, university asylum is a great institution, which no law was able to abolish. We will defend it, especially today, which the rights of many are threatened by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u355	Mr Dionissis Hatzidakis has the floor from New Democracy and then, in the position of Mr Vernardakis, Mr Ragus Ioannis will speak from the point of view of SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not read any texts. I'll tell you some thoughts. I will be very brief because in my life I have learned to speak a little and to do a lot. This bill has boldness on the issue of civil asylum, it has sensitivity to health issues and it also has logic on local government issues. I believe that after seventeen years as Mayor of the Old Faliroe I can see what's good, what's modest and what's bad for local self-government. I would like to tell you, therefore, that it is a bad law. There was a law, "Kalikratis", which made an incision to local government. And there was the assent of all mayors. There were minor objections, but in the walking of the 'Kalikaratis' application, they were corrected and it was really very effective. "KILLED" why did it happen? He took the remarks we had identified and incorporated them into the new bill. But what else did they have to do? Mr Skourletis - with whom I had an excellent cooperation - and SYRIZA had a doctrine that 'what we cannot understand, we can dismantle it'. So what did he do? The so-called electoral law. And what did that electoral law say? That someone could be the first mayor with 35%, with 38%, with 40%, going to the second Sunday, getting the mayor's title without any power. He had the first-round municipal councillors! I don't understand that thing. And all this tied up in a nice way that says "to acquire a culture of partnership". I think he's here somewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u357	I'm here. I can hear you all right!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u358	I see you very good in color, Minister. Welcome!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u359	Now you work!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u360	No, I'm from chemo like that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u361	You'll get over it, Mr. Hatzidakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u362	Don't hold a dialogue, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u363	What I wanted to tell you is that he raised this issue of culture. I told him - and he is here - that culture, Minister - then he was Minister - does not come with a law and an article. It takes procedures, it takes years. I have been the mayor for seventeen years and have never voted for the technical programme and the budget. Even though I called on the various groups and said to them, 'What do you want us to put?' And they were telling me some things. I put it in. The budget, however, was said not to be voted on because we are doing windowworks. And the People's Confederacy, ladies and gentlemen, said to me this amazing: "We agree, it is good, Mayor, what you say, but we have a solid principle, not to vote for works by contractors." But how's the water-stage going to be done? Is it going to be from city workshops? To build hundreds of hiking streets, how will it happen? Is it going to be one of the three local employees? Do you want me to put in an implementing body for the MOA so that you can vote for it? One time, you say, someone from SYRIZA voted for the budget and they erased it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why, what did he say? He said: "But what we asked him to do put it on. Why not vote?' Deleted. Now for culture you will allow me to tell you and develop it. We really need a culture of partnership. We're not mature. See what happened in this Chamber here and in other chambers of the Ministerial Council. There was a co-operation that SYRIZA ruled with the ANELs. "Mr Kotzia," said then the Chief of the ANELs, "I trust him" and after one or two years of mutual recognition, he memorized each other. And what do you think? From all this co-operation, who won? It certainly didn't win the policy, it certainly didn't win the cooperation, and it certainly lost our country. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that all these days I have seen that there are serious people in writing who can join forces and work together, because in the same branch we are all seated and not be sawn because, if we fall, the country will fall. That is why more creation and less radioactivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u364	Mr. Raguss has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u365	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I begin by expressing a sincere question as to how the same centre, governmental and parliamentary, is possible, to decide to introduce the days that passed the bill on the final state and immediately after this bill that was passed and which became the law of the State, based on the majority vote, to come to the House a ministerial - as was called - a bill, which is the absolute degradation of every concept, every logic, all of which is, in theory, the concept of a state in theory, but also defined in the law that was adopted yesterday. This bill that has come to the Greek Parliament these days is the epitome of what is in the diametrically opposing was literally taken from everything that he discussed and decided that the Greek Parliament should be included in the law on the final state. It's a perfect state. It's worth it. Honestly, I may not be well informed, but, if it is true that the information my colleagues gave me earlier, that an amendment was made to hire fifty veterinarians, apart from the AACC, with the only Minister's decision on who they will be, where they will be put, and so on, literally the country you do not imagine how many decades you take back! In addition to 12-month recruitments in Greece of 2019 and is this an effective state? Final state, which one, too, can't be the follow-up? In the case of the NSRP today, listening with caution to all of us - I am sure - the Prime Minister find that there is a very serious problem here. Not only will the Greek Prime Minister's absolute trust be suspended for a long time, which says yes, in the EAW. That's for granted. He's not questioned by anyone. Is there any chance that we could raise a question about the placement of the Commander of the NDP, if he obeyed, as the President of SYRIZA said all these days, the basic criteria followed by all Prime Ministers literally of Postmultiple? So, if it was one of the members of the New Democracy, the Greek State, the Armed Forces, the Hellenic Police with an undeniable ability to serve the institution, but also to serve on patriotic criteria his mission, was there any chance that we could raise a matter? But today, the Prime Minister's confession that there is, he says, a typical problem, but he will still send it to Mr. Tsipras to inform him, shows that he ignores the typical problem. And what's the typical problem? Is it or isn't it the assignment qualifications? And is that just a formal problem? And the real problem that this is a Securiti company executive, who, when he leaves the NSA, who commits him not to go to work again, transferring all the information, all the experiences, all the acquaintances he has acquired in the NSA in the company he's going to go back to work for? Who guarantees that? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And how do national interests serve in this case?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u366	The law provides for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u367	Please. And one last thing. Speaking of the continuation, for the part of the Ministry of Interior, for the part of the government, let me say that in fact, in my opinion, we are not talking about "CLITHEN" nor are we even talking about the mere proportionality of the municipalities. In fact, we are talking about something much more serious and something that, unfortunately, is changing in the worst way, degrading one of the most important achievements of the party system of postmopulation. We are talking about changing the conditions for an election campaign after that. That's what you're doing today. That's what you're charging historically today. You change the conditions for the elections after the elections. That's never happened before. Of course you have the right to abolish "KILLEN", to abolish "KALIKARATIS", to abolish the simple analogue, but not during the time when it is time to implement the framework of the terms of the election game, as laid down by this Greek Parliament. That's never happened before. There was a problem in Greece that the terms of the election game were changing on the eve of the elections. The big step has been taken. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A further second minute, Mr President, so that I do not abuse the favor of changing the order in the speech. There was a problem in Greece. There was the great conquest with the Revision of the Constitution, according to which the following was introduced: Do you want to change, Mr. New Democracy, Mr. SYRIZA, Mr. PASOK, the electoral law? It will apply if you don't get a qualified majority next time. What are you doing now? You take the country not back where it was, but where it was never found. Greece had never been found with a government that, as you change, changed the electoral conditions of the election campaign. And how will any citizen, investor, political, self-government factor consider that you will now respect a state that respects the rules of the game, when, for the very way in which party disputes take place, the elections in Greece no one respects anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u368	Please end up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u369	The country goes far behind - Mr President, this is my last sentence - perhaps this is the main reason why the Council of State for the first time, in all likelihood, will in time be faced with this question. Because, in all likelihood, I have been correctly informed, it has never been put before the Council of State to judge whether the change in the terms of the election game is in line with the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Eleftherios Avramakis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. In my opening speech I would like to thank the citizens of Serres Prefecture who have honoured me with their vote and sent me to the National Representation, to be their voice, to serve them and not just to represent them. I have listened carefully to the government's programme statements and the bills it has submitted all these days, and I would like to say that Prime Minister Mitsotakis is once again coming to baptize the fish meat. And as Minister of Administrative Reform he had baptized the availability of "mobility", so today he comes to tell us that a centralized, expensive, party-controlled and hydrocephalic state calls it "state finally". He personally tried, and his ministers himself, to show his support and assistance, as far as public administration and civil servants are concerned. In practice, however, it proved today by his speech on asylum that the public university itself had repudiated itself. And he does this with a sense that we all know is based on the fact that he is ideologically neoliberal and class-based in favour of the powerful and certainly not the man who can represent the people of work and labour. Ladies and gentlemen, the new government really has a plan and implements it quickly. Its aim is to achieve absolute party control in the state. Yesterday's vote on the provisions on the - supposedly - final state is indicative of the revival of a system of governance from the past: suffocation of central control, concentration of powers on the face of the Prime Minister and the Presidency of the government, as his office will now be called, deterioration and manipulation of every control mechanism of the state. Today, the bill under discussion goes further, attempting this time to alter the recent election results for local government. In questioning the popular verdict, which in many cases has chosen not to be the mayor or the district ruler, the absolute ruler in the administration of municipalities and regions, he has tabled a set of provisions which make him the absolute regulator. The Government decides that, irrespective of the outcome of the elections, the quorum of the elected mayor or regional mayor must have an absolute majority in all the institutions. It excludes the appointment of a consultant who does not come from the mayor's resignation to a position of responsibility, even if he is a person of common acceptance and with increased qualifications. It indicates a method of coexistence of municipal or regional classes only with the order of the mayor or regional authority, in fact prohibiting the withdrawal of this partnership. In other words, it says yes to marriage, 'no' to divorce. This is not a convergence procedure on the basis of a programme that could be legitimate. It is a declaration of subjection and accession of a party to the blockade of the majority mayor or regional ruler. New Democracy's respect for the people's verdict is eventually exhausted in the election period when it calls for the people's vote. You cannot accept even for local communities the possibility of being able to cooperate, to agree on the common interest as a whole. You don't want the mayors and regionals to get a bigger majority. You are fighting against every process that promotes dialogue and democratic decision-making. You think there can be no rulership if you do not always impose a majority on minority groups. You are condemning majority groups or subjecting or simply expressing their objections. Obviously, there is a constitutional issue with regard to what is envisaged for local government. The government actually decides that it has the right to interpret the popular verdict as appropriate, to overthrow the election result and to establish a procedure that destroys one of the most basic principles of our democracy, which is equality of vote for citizens. It is not trying to define the way in which the next elections are held, as Mr Ragouss said, that you could effectively abolish "CLISTENS" and "CAPESTRIA" and do your own administrative reform, but determine the outcome of the elections that have already taken place. The plan is full of provisions, modifications and arrangements that strengthen the belief that you are in a hurry to gather all the powers to the government and directly or indirectly to the Prime Minister. The vast majority of those you are proposing are not urgent. Your choosing to testify and approve them through this urgent and urgent procedure makes it feel like you want to avoid thorough monitoring for the purposes of these initiatives. Common and secure, however, is the conclusion that only one day after the state budget has been charged with hundreds of new posters and special partners, and even reduced qualifications and increased wage costs for those serving at the Prime Minister's office and not just, you have added a few more hundred more new posters to the central government and a few more dozen more to the local government agencies. In particular, for OTAs, in order to strengthen the possibilities of trading with non-elected mayor or district managers, you also anticipate new remuneration positions for regional and municipal councillors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In fact, your willingness to fully control the state as soon as possible leads you to other interventions, clearly unconstitutional, as we have said in the objection of unconstitutionality. The attempt to launch the President of the Competition Committee with photographic provisions, in breach of European law, is indicative of your perception of governance. The resalto you are trying in the public administration and the independent authorities, the only practical result that will have is to further reduce the public's confidence in the structures of the state. The wounds you once open are critically affected by any concept of public interest. Finally, a report on university asylum. For decades you have been attempting to abolish academic asylum, using various incidents, mainly at the Polytechnic and ASAE. You bring a provision that actually allows the Greek Police to intervene within the universities, even with an anonymous complaint.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u372	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u373	I shall conclude, Mr President. You consider that voting in favour of this provision in August will prevent student mobilisations that might disagree with your own perspective of freedom of expression and of movement of ideas. But the most likely development - which we despair - is to turn university spaces into battlefields between police and students. The worst is that in the one-dimensional way you approach the topics you will also cause reactions to university spaces where there has never been any problem, such as in the town of Serres and other towns in the province, hosted by university institutions. In Serres for decades now, university spaces have been an important part of the local society. There have never been problems and there has never been isolation from the structures of higher education by local society. We hope that you will not open the academy of Halos to cover your private obsessions. We started up and said we were going to schedule...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u374	Please, Mr. Comrade! Other colleagues are waiting for you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u375	I'm done. Give a minute to a newly elected MP. We have said that we will have a programme of opposition, a constructive one, but we believe that the principle you have made is not what should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u376	I would ask Mr Stylis Georgios from the New Democracy to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u377	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u378	Here, you have the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u379	Look, a moment ago the President of Parliament announced that the vote will take place at 6 p.m. Five minutes ago, when my previous colleague spoke, Mr Brutsi tabled an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u380	Two!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u381	I can see one now. There's another one? I don't know. One of them brought me. You're making a really bad start. It is half an hour before we vote, and in fact the President has told me, for the sake of a short time, that some speakers have spoken not to discuss the amendments in detail. For one Mr. Vorides brought in at that time, I said something. There should normally be a circle of speakers. Wait a minute. Because this is where Mr. Brutsis set up a huge communication game, I want to tell you two words, Mr. Brutsi. Thank you very much for setting up the entire 24,000-euro pension game...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u382	Let us first see what the Minister will say, to develop the amendments and follow the procedure, Mr Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u383	Wait a minute, because there's a situation here. He set up a whole communication game that SYRIZA earns $24,000. And here she brings the provision made by Mrs Ahtsioglou, which sets a ceiling on these few cases that had been secured by the old regime and made the request after the Katrugalou law was passed. Here is the absolute humiliation of all the communication campaign that went to set up the previous period. It brings the layout, which from what I saw from Mrs. Ahchioglu's file is just a copy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u384	What file is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u385	Can I get it for you? Where did Mrs. Ahchioglu find it? Can I get you the record of her State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour? It's popy-paste! Don't be afraid of it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u386	"Koppi"!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u387	It's 'cut-off', yes! That's exactly what it is!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u388	I'll see you here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Undersecretary, please, you will be given the floor. Good, Mr. Polakis. We'll hear the Minister and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u390	I'll answer that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u391	Minister, please. I'll give you the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u392	It's Copy-paste, Mr. Brutsi. You set up a little game and brought it half an hour ago. This is an absolute humiliation of the communication game you've been playing a week.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u393	Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen. You will be given the floor and we will put things in place. The communication issue, Mr Polakis, is not of interest to the Greek Parliament. We've heard you. Of course, all my fellow Members and the New Democracy, when you were a government, were disagreeing - and we are saying it now - and we said that the amendments should be made in good time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u394	Wait a minute, they've brought two more now. Here's two more. It's three more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u395	Two and three. You'll hear it now. I do not want to say that you have repeatedly brought twelve amendments to a bill. We were following them, condemning them, but it was a practice that was badly done, but it was done. So don't come now and talk about humiliation when you're the first... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Let's get this over with. Listen, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u396	With this amendment that he has now brought to the contractors, he will open up a course of discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u397	We heard you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u398	No, we won't vote. It can't be done. It will open a debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u399	Wait till I'm done. But I'm not done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u400	It abolishes the contractor's law on the obligations of the subcontractor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u401	You'll respect the procedures, the procedure. Listen: you've done it repeatedly. That does not mean that we are saying that we need to make a set-aside for this and that we must not. And we would ask all the ministers not to bring the amendments at the last minute. But the floor will now be given to the Minister to develop them. After he filed them, he has the right to develop them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u402	Mr President, I would like to speak. Please, we want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u403	Let me just finish, Mr. Karathanasopoule. Listen to me: You are an old parliamentarian, you know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u404	As a parliamentary representative, I now ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u405	It is the Minister's right - Parliament will decide to dominately afterwards - to develop the amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's what he'll do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u406	As a parliamentary representative, I have the right to speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u407	Let me finish! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u408	On a point of order, what does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u409	But Mr. Karathanasopoulos spoke of the procedure. Are you a JRC parliamentarian?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u410	Yes, Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u411	Good, we'll give you the floor. You are a parliamentary representative. That's where I'd end up, you got me. So wait! Minister, you will develop the amendments...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u412	Mr President, on a point of order, we want to have a position rather than a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u413	What are you doing? We want to speak on a point of order!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u414	Let me talk! Read the Rules of Procedure! Come and have a seminar on the Rules of Procedure, if you'd like! You will develop the amendments for five minutes. But, Minister, I would ask you not to leave. We'll follow another practice in emergencies. All parliamentary representatives will be informed after you will be given the floor, either immediately or after they have studied them. You'll definitely be here. Four, five Members will take the floor in order to have all the time to counteract and then the House will decide. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u415	We want the floor, Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u416	What are you doing, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u417	You will be given the floor! Wait a minute! Mr. Karathanasopoulos, do you want the floor or the substance?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u418	For the process!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u419	We question the procedure, it's perforated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u420	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u421	We want to denounce, Mr President, the government's method of manoeuvring and the collapsing it with the Bureau. You have extended the procedures for the functioning of the House to put forward two unacceptable amendments. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Two amendments which are disgusting! And we say that this process must be stopped here and now and that these two amendments should be withdrawn and come in accordance with the normal procedure if Mr Brutsi dares to bring them the way they are. Because in one amendment it accepts all the protective arsenal of the Katrugalo Law and for reasons of populism puts the ceiling on the pensions provided, maintaining the hunger and deprivation pensions for the vast majority of workers and the self-employed. And the second amendment which it brings relates to the BSE requirement, before it is well-intentioned to dry, to free companies from liability and to transfer them to contractors.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u422	You're actually getting into it now. As a matter of fact, you will be given the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u423	It also abolishes the justification for dismissal which was not something, but allows businesses to lay off workers. That's unacceptable! You must withdraw them here and now, not to enter the debate, because we are creating new issues in this degenerate form of Parliament's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u424	Mr Karathanasopoulos, you will be given the floor, you will have all the comfort on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u425	Not to be accepted by the accelerating minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u426	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u427	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u428	Mr. Janakopoulos, do you want to talk about the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u429	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u430	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u431	Mr President, the initial understanding was that after the speeches by the Prime Minister and the political leaders, there would be an extension of about one hour to speak more Members and then proceed to the roll-call vote. That was the original oral briefing I had from the President of Parliament. Then, as I understand it, the procedure was extended, and the President of Parliament announced to us that we would go by 18.00. All right, we accepted it to talk to more Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u432	If necessary, another extension will be granted for the amendments. Don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u433	It seems that all this was nothing but an attempt to delay the procedure, so that Mr Brutsi would come here, to table, after thirty hours of procedure, three amendments, which are, in fact, unacceptable in any case, but also procedurally unacceptable. We call on the Bureau not to make them or the government to withdraw them now. Responsibility is enormous. These issues cannot be solved lately on 8 August following procedural violations, which I think all Parliament and all its wings should denounce in the most emphatic way. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u434	Mr Kamine has also asked for the floor on a point of order, although the Rules of Procedure say different things there. You're referring to others. The practice followed is...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u435	Mr President, let us try to see what is happening right now in this Chamber. So many days we've been struggling with the emergency procedure. We have a confederate bill with completely heterogeneous provisions. At the last moment, the Minister is tabling amendments which have very important content, and it was announced that the roll-call vote will begin at 6 p.m. We are calling on the government at the moment not to follow procedures which he has been stalking over recent years, so that the totally disappointing phenomenon is coming from the first moment of its term of office and to repeat the worst we have seen in terms of the degrading practices of Parliament that we have seen in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u436	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group has also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u437	I never expected the President of the Greek Parliament to say that 'because you did it, they will.' Inadmissible - I apologise for the reproach - but I find it unacceptable...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u438	You did not understand what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u439	I think it is unacceptable, Mr President, because they have done the crimes, as you say, democratic, anti-democratic, to do so too. It's unacceptable. These must be withdrawn not because they are against the Rules of Procedure, but at least keep your seriousness a month after the elections. I remember what you said about SYRIZA's amendments. And you come here today and you do exactly the same. Is that possible? I'm not talking about contractors or about the man of the NSA. Cologne didn't get us, three more we need now, another thirty - seven thousand. And that's not all. It's the rest. I am not referring to the rest, however, if it is right or wrong, but to the fact that the procedure is wrong. People are watching us. You are bringing us amendments here when you yourself as a party in opposition complained to others. And the President of Parliament says: 'Yes, Mr Colleague, you are right, but you did so too.' [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I'll say it ten times, thirty times, to figure out what you're doing. You give them an alibi to protest. And they're right. Minister, take them back for your liberation and for your New Democracy, because that's how you're being exposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u440	Mr President, I, too, said that there should be no set-aside and we need to see what measures we will take to correct this evil. The Minister has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u441	Mr President, the JRC states that since you enter the substance of the debate it is an unacceptable process. We denounce the Bureau for this procedure and abstain from the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u442	Get your responsibility!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u443	Mr Karthanasopoulos, he has the right to develop the amendments. The House must listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u444	No games like that! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u445	It's a disgrace! It's an abortion of what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u446	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, according to the Rules of Procedure, he has the right to develop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u447	It's an abortion of what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u448	Please take a look at the Rules of Procedure. The Minister has a right after having filed them to develop them. What you're saying is after. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u449	Mr President, we have asked a question. Does he withdraw them or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u450	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u451	Please, the Minister's word has been given.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u452	What contracts are you carrying out?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u453	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u454	Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u455	On the SYRIZA side, since we are actually entering, we also denounce this unacceptable procedure and leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u456	We are not actually going to the point, the Minister simply has to develop them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u457	Withdraw the amendments to the vote. This thing, whatever the contractors told you to do, it can't be done. Forget it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u458	These are inadmissible things!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u459	Withdraw her now!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u460	Take it back, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u461	You're insulting the House, President. The Bureau is insulting the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u462	That's the ultimate state!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u463	You cannot do this in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u464	That's the ultimate state!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u465	Thanu made you happy! Bovine slaves!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u466	Mr President, the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u467	I'm overdoing it. Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu. You requested the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u468	I have asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure with two signatures. The Rules of Procedure and not the Rules of Procedure. It is not only about the content of this amendment, it also concerns the way it came. In fact, the House over the last four years has experienced the diversion from the Rules of Procedure: Procedures that were beyond all ethics, which the Opposition had condemned. I would remind you that this had happened once before 2015 and it was the last day that the House had worked in 2014 in that December, because there was then a dissolution due to the non-election of the President of the Republic. So we have built these together for four and a half years all together, which no one has heard from those who have now left because of sensitivity, nothing. They didn't hear anything. They decided by a majority. With what majority? The same thing that you now want to make, through the procedure, very serious decisions. Just the title of the subject - I am not in the essence of this - requires us to have a serious debate within the Committee on Social Affairs and to respect the Rules of Procedure. It is important that we discuss serious questions relating to workers' rights, as the Rules of Procedure say. Three days ago, he says, it should be tabled for ministerial amendments, otherwise he should justify the urgency. There's no urgency for this one. There's an emergency bill. Even with SYRIZA and with these bills, the number of amendments was limited. And I would ask - I will not use another phrase - that the Minister for Labour withdraws the amendment and bring it to the Committee on Social Affairs to discuss it and that everything is necessary to regulate it and to see how to improve it, to do so, but not to do so. I've made it clear from the beginning. In 2014 we did it one day last. You won't do it from the beginning. Clear things. Respect for democracy, which was not there on SYRIZA, will not be allowed to continue now. There is no excuse for you to bring into the moment that this House has actually closed - when it was originally announced that at 16.00 p.m. we would vote - an amendment at 16.45 p.m. So please - I am not saying another sentence - that the amendment should be withdrawn and that the Committee on Social Affairs should be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u469	Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u470	We consider this amendment to be a declaration of war by the government to be tabled to political culture. We believe that only at the moment, at the last moment in a long debate, that these amendments should be introduced, without any real debate, is a blow to this Parliament. We think you're making a huge blow, Minister. It's certain you're going to continue. It is certain that such a parliamentary coup is predetermined. Merra25's leaving right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u471	Mr. President, can I just have a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u472	We're done, Mr. President. That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u473	We're not done, Mr. President. If we don't get into the point, we're going to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u474	Here, Minister, you have the floor to tell us about the amendments and the urgency.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u475	Mr President, we need an answer to our request...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u476	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the floor in a bill on which particular tension has been created at the moment because I have tabled two amendments, as the Opposition says, which has left - in the form of urgency. I'll explain why. They were raped to leave. Perhaps it is also a deliberate departure, because they knew what they would hear and did not want to be present. In any case, for me it is an honour to propose two critical, urgent, important and positive provisions and, at the same time, to bring in the form of urgency - and I will explain why - two amendments which are also important, critical and positive for workers, pensioners, for Greece which we want the next day, because Greece is not waiting for. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We cannot be impededed in front of strangles and ideologies and stand still and bearing in one yesterday that has injured Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the first provision I have brought in and is already embedded in the bill is the provision by which we reduce the interest rate from 5% to 3% in the regulation of the hundred to twenty instalments. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And it is what is being done in the insurance funds, as we had made an election commitment. We're doing another election act of ours. I am pleased to tell you - because the issue of regulating the hundred and twenty instalments to the insurance funds was not easy - and to inform the House, the parties that have remained inside, that, unfortunately, the legacy 15 days ago we took over from the government was that the issue of regulating the hundred and twenty instalments could not be made to the insurance funds, because the debts of 2017 and 2018 could not be cleared up. They know it hundreds, perhaps even thousands of free professionals and self - employed people who were trying to get into the arrangement and could not. We have therefore made a huge effort. And I would like to thank the CRL officers for having achieved what they all thought at the beginning was unbelievable. Yes, for two days now there has been complete access and inevitably anyone can regulate their debts for both 2017 and 2018, and this is a first positive development of our determination to implement what we have to do for the good of those we believe in. The second may be the most important one, and I consider it to be the top one as an announcement by this government that I tabled in the programming declarations. It is the first step for the big digital leap of the country in a critical area that we will solve pathogens for decades, which will be confronted with problems - let me express - embarrassingly, when the labour force distractors, today's workers, yesterday's workers are on the line to get their self-evident pensions. Today, when SYRIZA leaves, he hides behind the heavy legacy he left us. It leaves over four hundred and seventy thousand outstanding main pensions and assumptions, when it was electorally saying that it had solved the problems and that people are waiting. And today the government comes to respond to one of the most important problems we have in time as a country. And today we are taking the first step, with the provision of the 'HALE'. ‘ATLAS’ shall be integrated. We are taking the first step of digital transformation into the Ministry of Labour and after this step legislation will follow in November 2019. God willing, on 1 June 2020, 34.37% of new pensions will now be digital. And in June 2021 90% of new pensions will also be digitalised. Was this provision urgent or wasn't it, I ask the people who left the Chamber? Why didn't they do it all these years? Because this provision - you need to know why there are young people in Parliament too - was a provision prepared from 2012-2014. We started in May 2014. At the end of December 2014 we handed over "ATLA" and even to delivery - I had given it to Mr. Skourletis. They had the opportunity, unfortunately, for Greece and the Greeks, to have brought the digital pension from January 1st 2017. And they didn't do it for the sake of ideology, for reasons of their own. But today we are with over four hundred seventy thousand outstanding pensions, and that is the problem. They hide and leave, they cannot hear the truth, what they left, what they created, what a heavy legacy and open wounds. And now I go to the amendments, which are also important and which are of an urgent nature, and I am explaining them. I would like, please, all this Parliament, all the parties, to listen carefully to a specific moment that I will describe. Two days after taking up my duties, the Secretary-General of pensions informs me that there is a huge problem, that there are pensions amounting to EUR 24 000, EUR 10,000, EUR 15 000, which are ready to be granted and asks: 'What do you have to do, Minister, what are you going to tell us'? My first reaction was of course a surprise, it was a reaction that anyone would have had, but of course the determination had to run. By e-mail to all the regional directorates of EKKA left the mandate to freeze all pension payments, which are high. That was the reaction on the first day. The subject has taken a dimension of communication, what has been heard has been heard, unfortunately it is a truth. What's the truth? That there were indeed, because I heard Mr. Tsipras from this one, the Step down to abdicate me and say that there are no pensions such as Mr. Paulakis did. I hand over and submit for pensions: EUR 6,500, EUR 7,200, indicative of EUR 10,500, EUR 23,571 monthly pensions. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, presents the above-mentioned documents in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What were SYRIZA's gentlemen asking for? Shall I sit with my hands crossed and pay these pensions? Of course not. In order to stop what I had before me, however, there had to be a provision of law, because the oral word cannot prevail over the law. If on 25 August an official was following the law and not my oral order, then these pensions would be clearly paid. This is the answer to Mr. Tsipras, to the open wounds left by the previous political leadership, because he did not want to take care from 2002 to 2016 to do what is self-evident, as is done in all the insurance systems in the world - and in our own before 2002 and after 2017 - to have a pension cap. It comes to do this because they said just before that they had ready the order. After they had her ready, why didn't they testify her? I read the document here, which has also been made public. It is the document of the Ministry of Labour's General Manager - be careful, it is interesting - which, on the date 10-7-2018, warns the Ministry of Labour's political leadership - a year ago - that there are pensions of EUR 23.008 and asks what the Ministry of Labour will do, whether to give or not to give pensions? A year ago. But anyway, how much time did it take to legislate? Incompetence or irresponsibility? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Please give it to Mr Tsipras, who did not know and did not have time to react. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, I have indeed tabled an amendment to this effect, which was timely and urgent, but it was an amendment that puts pensions in a flank. It is the amendment you all have in your hands. The plaque is 4,600 euros. It incorporates in and recompense and redistribution, with respect to pensioners and with respect to all those who - I am sorry - expected to receive the high pensions of Mr Katrugalo and Mrs Ahtsoglou, but this cannot be done. In a favoured state, which respects democracy and its function first and foremost, we cannot pay such high pensions. I'm also making the provision for the pension wall.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u477	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u478	I shall conclude, Mr President. Now I am going to talk about the second provision, which is also urgent, and which is a priority for us, because at the heart of the New Democracy policy is the man and the worker, the retired and the weak. These are not just verbal expressions which we simply call them for political reasons. It's DNA, our worthy system, the same. That is why we are making decisions to safeguard developments that we see in front of us, which undermine the labour market, undermine the worker and make reconciliation between workers and businesses impossible, create divisions, create and make attractive the infringement in the labour market and are recent provisions that the previous government has voted on on on election. In fact, they testify and evidence. The evidence I will now read to you is the data from "ERGANI", but I will read you three examples to see what SYRIZA voted for in terms of regulations of Labour Law. Listen, please: The first dismantling provision is of interest. I will give you the answer with three examples to understand what SYRIZA voted for. If a private carpenter instructs a carpenter to build furniture for his home and pays the carpenter and receives the furniture, but then the carpenter does not pay the workers in his business, i.e. his people, his workers, then the latter, i.e. the carpenter workers, can go and claim their remuneration to the private carpenter. These are the provisions that have been adopted by SYRIZA. A second example of this is the absurdity, but it also creates monstries in the economy itself: A health store has concluded an agreement with a meat dealer to supply it with meat in his shop. The storemaster is consistent with his obligations, he pays them consistently in the times predetermined by the meat chain. Suddenly, however, the meat chain, even though it takes the money from the shopkeeper, stops paying the workers. What's gonna happen? With SYRIZA's provisions, the workers of the meat chain store will go to ask for their money from the health store. Do you understand what they voted for? The third example. If in theory the global colossal of "APPLE" entrusted to a Greek company the development here in Greece of a system software with Greek scientists, who here would develop their software and "APPLE" would agree with them to take the know-how and knowledge of the software, "APPLE" and each "APPLE" would at the same time have to build another company next to the best accountants and lawyers to monitor the financial situation of the Greek company. Because if this Greek company decided not to pay the employees, then the employees would appeal to "APPLE" to take their money. This is unfortunately the picture. No, "APPLE" will not come to Greece, because with such perceptions, they will listen to Greece and the businesses will leave. That's what we're abolishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u479	Time to put or are it new customs and customs?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u480	Don't interrupt. The Minister's coming to an end. Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u481	I'm closing, Mr. President. The latter has to do with the question of a provision which has suddenly come to an election, in which the government has advertised that it is the provision that safeguards the worker, it ensures his rights. Listen to what happened here. I'll tell you the evidence. It is the so-called 'principal ground for dismissal' at the time. Listen to the results: On the basis of this government's provision, the revenues should be safeguarded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u482	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u483	I shall conclude, Mr President. I want to read you some numbers to figure out where we are. The figures which I will read are official, published by the 'ERGANI', and that proves how harmful these provisions were today which we are changing and improving in favour of workers. The order came in May 2019. Listen to the results of redundancies based on the elements of "ERGANI": In 2018 redundancies were a hundred ninety thousand four hundred forty-four. In 2019 they were two hundred eighteen thousand two hundred forty. Eighteen thousand seventy - sixty more redundancies were made because of the order. I'm going below: in June 2019, there were two hundred forty-nine thousand five hundred eighty-one redundancies. In 2019, two hundred and fifty thousand eighty-two, eight thousand five hundred, one more redundancies after the arrangement. I'm going to the other case, for July just closed: The redundancies were two hundred seven thousand six hundred ninety in 2018, two hundred fifty-five thousand ten in 2019, seventeen thousand three hundred twenty more redundancies and the balance of "ERGANI" comes out in June and in July two thousand two hundred thirteen negative and sixty thousand one also negative balance, compared with in 2018 by 2019. We had eight thousand two hundred ninety-four jobs lost because of this provision. We are obliged, ladies and gentlemen, to react and react. We show determination, reflexes, sensitivity to the good of our country. Greece can't wait. We remove these ideological working arrangements and move forward. These are our decisions, so we move on, for Greece tomorrow, for Greece which is worthy of Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u484	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's get things straight. I said at the outset that the House is deciding to dominately. I did not remember the provision to tell you, because I cannot remember all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, but I know the content. I told my partners to find the order, and I'm reading it to you. ‘Appendix or amendments to Members must be submitted three days ago’, indeed, Mr Kegeroglu. If, however, there is a case of questioning anything, the President is asking the House which decides solely by raising or retreating - take note of the complex right now - and without debate. What did I say? To have a conversation. Badly gone. We were going to talk about the substance later. So it's a mistake to leave. Why? We had to get in, listen to the minister, see the emergency. They are provisions which are beneficial to the public. Of course here, Mr Kegeroglu, we cannot apply paragraph 4 of the 88, as you say, because Article 73 of the Constitution says that we cannot discuss them when we have a budgetary burden. But here, not only do we not have a burden on the budget, but the report by the General Accounting Office itself - which I have not read, I have not noticed, and now I read the Rules of Procedure - says that the proposed provisions have the following financial results. First, an annual cost savings from the introduction of a ceiling on the total gross amount. This savings for the years '19, '20, '21, '22, '23 are estimated at the amounts indicated. So here we have positive issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u485	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u486	Listen, Mr. Kegeroglu, don't rush, I might cover for you. The only right thing is what you and other colleagues have said that they should not come at the last minute. I understand that, but there would be a public financial burden if they were to be paid and these amendments did not come. In that case it would be too late. Of course, you'll tell me that there are provisions that could be sought and said to the public...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u487	Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u488	It is not a question, Mr Javarra, you may be right to say that we are going to end this, but what we are saying is to be understood and convinced. If we can't convince, there's no talk. It is therefore a mistake what has happened. Of course, no such serious amendments should come at the last minute, Minister. But it is completely legal, as I have said, except for the amendment. That is why he says without debate, and we talked about this with debate, because I remembered it, but I couldn't find it. Now I imagine the Members who left have left for the debate on the amendments, and I say that to hear them. I do not think they have left for the vote, much more since they have raised a matter of roll-call voting. That's their thing, of course. So we can now see whether the amendments from you here will be accepted by Parliament. It is not the Bureau's decision, the plenary will decide. If they want the people who hear it, let them come. Listen, there was a lot going on. If you want to go back to one order and apply the Rules of Procedure normally, since we are going back to normal in all things - and above all we must return to the institutions - then it is wrong that they left. We could sit here and have an extension, as much as necessary, in order to be able to study and speak on the ground. We said that the vote would take place at six o'clock, but it is not the matter of leaving at six o'clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u489	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u490	Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u491	Thank you for giving me the floor to conclude after the question of whether the Minister insists, because I have put this question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u492	To the Minister, you can make calls. That's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u493	So, having called and answered indirectly, I would like to say a few words about the previous and the conclusions that we have drawn from the position of the Minister. Firstly, the provision concerning the 5% reduction to 3% is a regular article in the bill and it is not an amendment. Therefore, the Minister said an untrue element from the Step of the House. Secondly, the amendment concerning the pension plaque is questionable. There's a cap on the pensions. In any case, it could bring the pension cap to the pensions, but not a change in the method of calculation, because that also requires opinions from other institutions in the country. If the Minister of Labour and Social Security doesn't know, I want to inform him...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u494	I'm sorry. On this, from the Court of Auditors you have taken...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u495	From the Court of Auditors or from the General Accounting Office of the State? The Court of Auditors did not have a report at the time of the submission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u496	But it's not his obligation. The General Accounting Office of the State.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u497	In any case, the Minister is coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u498	I asked law, 'cause I know there has to be. They tell me there is. We didn't have time to read. There is a decision of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u499	The report has now been tabled. Not the General Accounting Office of the State, the Court of Auditors. There is no report from the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u500	There is, there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u501	The Minister comes near this so-called urgency, because he knows very well that no pension would be issued as long as it was the political will and sticks to a change in the method of calculating pensions without dialogue and without the opinion of the relevant institutions of the country. The institutions must take into account the Committee on Social Affairs, the Court of Auditors report. It also comes down to an amendment relating to employment rights and in a broader manner to individual rights, in the sense of urgency. Oh, no. It is not urgent, it cannot be discussed at the formal end of the sitting at 4 noon. It had announced to the Bureau that four o'clock will be closed. This was not even done at SYRIZA! Not even SYRIZA! You've gotten over him. You copy him. And don't tell me no, Minister. You copy him. And you make a bad copy. No, we're not participating in the falsification. Court of Auditors report. I don't actually get in, because she's negative, too. But I don't care about the substance. I'm interested in breaking the Rules of Procedure. In violation of the Rules of Procedure in a worse manner than in SYRIZA, we will not consent. Take the ham, Mr. Brutsi. You could have made this amendment for days now. Instead of being on the orange windows like me - I'm the Antipolitics, I'm entitled to be - to sit down and work on time! Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u502	I think the matter is exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u503	Where is he exhausted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u504	We will apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u505	Now will you apply him?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u506	The Rules of Procedure say 'or raise me up' to be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u507	Mr President, please very much. A broad interpretation of the Rules of Procedure will not be possible here. The Minister spoke half an hour. Will the president of a party not speak? Are you serious? I'm asking for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u508	Is that really what you want with him? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u509	Thank you, Mr President. For us, as I said before, it is a matter of principle. Clear things. In 'rules' we are not going to participate. Secondly, 'normality' you said as an election party. You call that normality? To vote on your own, why are you suddenly bringing in amendments? Is that right? Also, I'm gonna tell everybody something. If it's really urgent, I agree with you. It's urgent. Don't let the House close. Let's sit on both 15 and 16 and 17 of the month to work in here. Why bring in an hour before this story? And I want to believe that it is not a coincidence that the President-in-Office is today. I want to believe it honestly. Four hours you said the story came from the Court of Auditors. All this shows that you do not respect the institutions. And you give them the right to expose all your resignation. I'm really sorry. We can't participate either. We're leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u510	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u511	You're welcome, Mr. President. The former Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u512	Mr President, I have heard and heard these days many times the concept of determination and governance as the good that is missing from the country in order to be able to go ahead. But if this determination and this governance mean that there is a lack of respect for basic institutions of democracy, consultation and procedures, then it means, Mr President, that we do not understand what the causes of the crisis have been, which is now afflicting the Greek people for ten years. Because the crisis was not just a derailment of the budget. It was institutional derailment, non-transparency, which allowed the power to be arbitrary, the country to be forced and the budget finally not to be controlled, and even the statistics are fraudulent and the country is paying for it with a lack of credibility. If, then, after so many years, you do not think that there should be institutional safeguards in our country for these democratic processes and for the sake of cybercrificy, you can be dissatisfied, you are making a very bad start. And while we really had started with the programming declarations a climate in this Chamber that we had to see for many years, it unfortunately seems to be overthrown by your sloppy practices, which are not only sloppy but also arbitrary and which affect the democratic sense of this Chamber and, therefore, the democratic institutions. That is why we are going to leave because we do not accept this procedure. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please! Have you considered your responsibilities? We will leave because we do not accept amendments to insurance and labour rights of the Greek people at the last minute, without even knowing about these things. And you, Mr President, were also confused when you were trying to justify unjustified sums. Please for the good of the place and on the occasion of a new beginning that you are making, leave these grandly prudence and determination and see the respect of the institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u513	Mr President, before you go, let me tell you this. I have explained what the Rules of Procedure say in conjunction with the constitutional provisions. So that's not a matter for the Bureau. It's a matter of Parliament. So the plenary will now decide on an upsurge or upswing if they are to be discussed, so that we can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u514	Mr President, I did not raise the point of order. I raised a matter of fundamental democratic ethics.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u515	Mr President, what we are talking about is what we are talking about!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u516	What exactly?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u517	On the subject we are debating, on the other party's departure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u518	That's their thing. That's not what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u519	Please! We need to explain to the Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u520	We are not planning to judge the actions of the parties because they are departing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u521	We're not judging action. Politically, we're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u522	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u523	Mr President, I have the right to speak. We are watching an absurd theatre, ladies and gentlemen, and this must be explained to the Greek people. The only thing the opposition wants to hide is its internal contradictions. We have heard Mrs Fotio a moment ago tell us that the asylum provision does not solve a nonexistent problem, that is, it does not solve it and there is no problem. These two can't happen together. Mr Paulakis a few minutes ago accused Mr Brutsi of bringing an amendment that was already in place. And he left so that their own amendment would not be voted on. In other words, it is things that do not stand in logic. That's the only reason they left. And the New Democracy does not receive lessons from those who kept the House open to pass these amendments a few weeks ago. He does not receive lessons from those who went through legislative acts when the House was closed. Have we forgotten about this? Do they think the Greek people forgot? Oh, no. So the New Democracy, with a sense of responsibility, comes and brings these amendments and this sense of responsibility will vote on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u524	The Minister of State, Mr. Pierracakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u525	Mr President, a vote has been tabled, with a general number of 29 and a special number 17, on the transfer of the register to the Ministry of Development again by the Ministry of Digital Governance and the relevant legislative improvements have been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u526	Mr President, let's vote on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u527	We'll finish, Mrs. Bakoyannis, it didn't come up with an accidental matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u528	But let's get out of here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u529	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Theodorikos, has the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u530	Mr President, for the formal case, I would like to ask the title: 'Confidentiality of the Ministry of Interior, provisions on digital governance, add 'and pension arrangements and other urgent matters'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u531	All the ministerial amendments, as well as the parliamentary amendments tabled by Mr Ploiros with a general number of 29 and a special number of 17, and Mr Katsafandos with a general number of 23 and a special number of 11, are also accepted. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 442.a]] [[To enter page 445.a]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u532	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the rest of the procedure provided for. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Consolidation of the Ministry of Interior, provisions on digital governance, pension arrangements and other urgent matters" is hereby concluded. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u534	The Radical Left coalition has retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u537	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u538	The Minister of Interior’s draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by SYRIZA Members on Articles 1 to 12, 64, 65 and 101, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u539	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mrs. Ahchioglou Afe. I've been away. Mrs Agathopoulos Irene. I've been away. Mr Alexiadis Tree. Abstentions. Mrs. Evgiris Gifts. I've been away. Mrs. Gerovassili Olga. I've been away. Mr. Dr. Thodoris. Abstentions. Mrs. Eleftheriadou Sultana. I've been away. Mr. Igoumenides Nikolaos. Abstentions. Mrs. Cassimatis Nina. I've been away. Mr. Katrugalos George. Abstentions. Mrs. Kafantari Joy. I've been away. Mr. Lappas Spyros. Abstentions. Mr. Barkas Costas. Abstentions. Mr. Burnus Yiannis. Abstentions. Mr. Moraite Thanos. Abstentions. Ms. Xenogiannakopoulou Marilissa. I've been away. Mr. Poppas Nikos. Abstentions. Mr. Paulakis. Abstentions. Mrs. Pulou Yota. I've been away. Mr. Skourlet Panos. Abstentions. Mr. rusty Panos. Abstentions. Mr. Spirjis Christos. Abstentions. Mr. Symblene Nikos. Abstentions. Mrs. Tyloridou Olympia. I've been away. Mr. Janakopoulos Dimitris. Abstentions. Mrs. Jufi Merope. I've been away. Mr. Tsipras George. Abstentions. Mr. Famelos Socrates. Abstentions. Mr. Haritsis Alexis. Abstentions. Mrs. Christodou Rallia. I've been away. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote and therefore the request is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, a request has also been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Communist Party of Greece on Rule 64, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u540	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Koutsoukos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mr. Giokas John. Here you go. Mr. Delis John. Here you go. Mrs. Canelle Creeks. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mrs. Konnakka Maria. Here. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here. Mr. Marinos George. Here you go. Mr. Papanastassis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Stoltides Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Synthrates Emmanuel. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u541	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. It will be followed by a roll-call vote to be held in accordance with Rules 72 and 72A of the Rules of Procedure. The acceptances of Article 64 say 'THE'. Those who fail to accept Article 64 say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. Parliamentary Thesprotia Mr Vassilios Yoyakas from New Democracy and MP Heraklion Mr Emmanouil Syntakakis from the Communist Party of Greece is on the list. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it has come to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, a letter from a Member of Parliament which gives us its vote. This vote will be announced and taken into account in the following count. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u542	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letter, which was sent to the Bureau by my colleague, pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u543	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that my colleague Mrs Olga Kefaloyannis will not be present in today's roll-call vote and informs us by letter that if she were present she would vote 'NAI'. Also, Mr. Charalambos Kastanides is absent and by letter he knows that if he were present he would vote according to the position of his party. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u544	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u545	Until the count is completed, we shall proceed to vote on the remaining articles and amendments. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u548	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u549	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u550	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u552	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u553	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u554	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u555	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u557	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u558	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u559	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u560	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u563	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u565	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u567	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u568	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u569	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u570	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u572	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u573	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u575	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u579	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u580	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u582	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u583	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u584	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u585	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u588	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u589	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u590	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u592	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u593	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u594	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u595	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u597	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u598	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u599	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u600	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u602	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u603	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u604	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u605	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u609	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u610	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u614	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u615	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u618	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u619	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u620	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u624	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u625	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u628	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u629	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u630	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u635	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u638	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u639	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u640	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u644	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u645	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u647	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u648	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u649	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u650	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u653	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u654	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u655	Article 22 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u658	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u660	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u661	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u663	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u664	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u665	Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u670	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u672	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u673	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u674	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u675	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u678	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u680	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u682	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u683	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u684	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u685	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u687	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u689	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u690	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u692	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u693	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u694	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u695	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u697	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u698	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u699	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u700	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u702	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u703	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u704	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u705	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 33 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u708	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u709	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u710	Article 33 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u713	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u714	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u715	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u718	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u719	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u720	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u723	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u724	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u725	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u728	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u729	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u730	Article 37 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u731	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u732	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u733	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u734	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u735	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u738	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u739	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u740	Article 39 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 40 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u743	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u744	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u745	Article 40 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 41 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u747	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u748	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u749	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u750	Article 41 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u753	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u754	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u755	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u757	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u758	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u759	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u760	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u762	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u763	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u764	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u765	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u767	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u768	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u769	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u770	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u771	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u772	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u773	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u774	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u775	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u776	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u777	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u778	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u779	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u780	Article 47 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 48 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u782	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u783	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u784	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u785	Article 48 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does the House agree to Rule 49, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u787	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u788	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u789	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u790	Article 49 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u793	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u794	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u795	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u796	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u797	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u798	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u799	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u800	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u802	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u803	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u804	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u805	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u807	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u808	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u809	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u810	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u812	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u813	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u814	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u815	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u818	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u819	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u820	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u821	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u823	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u824	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u825	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u828	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u829	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u830	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u833	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u834	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u835	Article 58 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Can Article 59, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u837	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u838	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u839	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u840	Article 59 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 60 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u841	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u843	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u844	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u845	Article 60 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 61 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u846	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u848	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u849	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u850	Article 61 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u852	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u853	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u855	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 63 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u856	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u857	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u859	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u860	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Rule 64 has been put in roll-call vote. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u862	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u863	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u864	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u865	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u867	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u868	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u870	Article 66 was therefore unanimously accepted. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u873	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u874	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u875	Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u876	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u877	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u879	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u880	Article 68 was therefore unanimously accepted. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u881	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u882	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u883	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u885	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u886	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u887	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u889	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u890	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as it has unanimously been. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u891	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u892	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u893	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u894	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u895	Article 71 was therefore unanimously accepted. Will Rule 72 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u896	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u897	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u898	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u899	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u900	Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u901	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u903	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u905	Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u906	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u907	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u908	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u909	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u910	Article 74 was therefore unanimously accepted. Will Rule 75 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u911	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u912	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u913	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u914	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u915	Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u917	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u918	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u919	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u920	Article 76 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 77 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u921	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u922	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u923	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u924	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u925	Article 77 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 78 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u926	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u927	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u929	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u930	Article 78 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 79 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u931	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u932	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u933	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u934	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u935	Article 79 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 80 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u936	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u937	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u938	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u939	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u940	Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u941	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u943	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u944	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u945	Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 82 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u946	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u947	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u949	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u950	Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 83 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u951	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u952	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u953	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u954	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u955	Article 83 was therefore unanimously accepted. Will Rule 84 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u956	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u957	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u958	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u959	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u960	Article 84 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 85 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u961	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u962	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u963	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u964	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u965	Article 85 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 86 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u966	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u967	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u968	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u969	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u970	Article 86 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 87 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u971	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u972	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u973	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u974	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u975	Article 87 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 88 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u976	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u977	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u978	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u979	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u980	Article 88 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 89 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u981	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u982	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u983	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u984	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u985	Article 89 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 90 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u986	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u987	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u988	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u989	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u990	Article 90 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 91 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u991	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u992	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u993	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u994	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u995	Article 91 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 92 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u996	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u997	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u998	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u999	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1000	Article 92 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 93 as such be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1001	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1002	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1003	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1004	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1005	Article 93 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 94 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1006	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1007	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1008	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1009	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1010	Article 94 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 95 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1011	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1012	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1014	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1015	Article 95 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 96 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1016	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1017	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1018	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1019	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1020	Article 96 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 97 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1021	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1022	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1023	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1024	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1025	Article 97 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 98 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1026	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1027	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1028	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1029	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1030	Article 98 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 99 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1031	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1032	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1033	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1034	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1035	Article 99 was therefore unanimously accepted. Does this House accept Rule 100 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1036	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1037	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1039	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1040	Article 100 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 101 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1041	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1042	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1043	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1044	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1045	Article 101 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Rule 102, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1046	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1047	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1049	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1050	Article 102 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 103 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1051	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1052	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1053	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1054	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1055	Article 103 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 104 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1056	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1057	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1058	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1059	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1060	Article 104 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 105 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1061	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1062	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1063	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1064	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1065	Article 105 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 106 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1066	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1067	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1068	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1069	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1070	Article 106 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 107 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1071	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1072	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1073	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1074	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1075	Article 107 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number 19 and a special number 7 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1076	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1077	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1078	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1079	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1080	Therefore, Amendment No 19 and number 7 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 20 and a special number 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1081	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1082	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1083	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1084	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1085	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 20 and a special number 8 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 21 and a special number 9 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1086	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1087	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1088	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1089	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1090	Therefore, Amendment No 21 and number 9 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 22 and a special number 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1091	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1092	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1093	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1094	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1095	So the amendment, number 22, and number 10, was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 24 and a special number 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1096	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1097	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1098	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1099	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1100	The amendment, by a general number 24 and a special number 12, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number 25 and a special number of 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1102	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1104	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1105	The amendment, by a general number 25 and a special number 13, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 26 and a number 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1108	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1110	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 26 and a special number 14 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 27 and a number 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1112	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 27 and a special number 15 were accepted as it is unanimous and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 28 and a number of 16 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1114	The amendment under number 28, and a special number 16, has therefore been accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 23 and a special number 11 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1116	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1119	The amendment under number 23 and a special number 11 were therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 29 and a special number 17 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1121	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1122	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1123	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1124	Therefore, Amendment No 29 and number 17 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1125	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 198 Members voted. In favour of Rule 64, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 162 Members. Under Rule 64, 15 Members voted against. They have voted for 21 Members, according to the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1126	Article 64 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1129	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1131	The late payment was made by a majority vote. Consequently, the Legislative Decree of the Ministry of Interior: ‘Consolidations of the Ministry of Interior, provisions on digital governance, pension arrangements and other urgent matters’ was accepted by a majority in principle, on articles and on amendments. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1133	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1134	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1135	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1136	The bill was accepted by a majority in total. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Interior: ‘Consolidation of the Ministry of Interior, provisions on digital governance, pension arrangements and other urgent matters’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles and the whole principle, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1137	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1138	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-08-S1-commons.u1139	With the consent of the House at 19: 40 the sitting is closed. Good summer!
