ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 15-10-2019, the minutes of its GG's meetings, Tuesday 15 October 2019, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Recommendation of a National Public Health Organisation (ENAH), rules on tobacco products, other issues of the Ministry of Health and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate on today's topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Friday 18 October 2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 101/15-10-2019 of the Greek Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Requirements for anti-nuclear protection and the prevention of forest fires". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Larissa of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Movements of bureaucracy, mobile primary care units in Thessaly." 3. The question by number 108/15-10-2019 of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Diamantos Manolakos, Member of Parliament, with regard to: "Release of workers in cleanliness at the General Hospital of Nice". 4. Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Arseni for his excellent report. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 102/15-10-2019 by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Paul Pavlakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Chrik Dynan Hospital” and public interest service. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 9214-10-2019 by MP B2' West Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Attica Region and New CYTA in the Families". 3. Under No 99/15-10-2019, a topical question by MP I Athens of Mera25 Mr Angelikos Adamopoulos to the Minister of Health on the subject: ‘Amendment by an act of legislative action under Article 56 of Law 4139/2013 on the CTE’. 4. The Question No 103/15-10-2019 by MP Cyclades of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Syrmaleneou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “In a hostage, workers at the General Hospital of Thera, due to a long-term suspension of service changes”. 5. The question under number 94/14-10-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Priority for road safety and the creation of a Road Safety Observatory of Crete". 6. The Question No 104/15-10-2019 by MP Lassithi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Manolis Thrafaniotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Providing dental care services from the EEAS to children from private dentists". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 110/15-10-2019 topical question by the Deputy of State of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: “Edition of Iranian prisoner, mother of a minor child.” REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 428/28-8-2019 by Congressman Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Great problems and serious risks from the lack of personnel of ambulance/rescue crews in the EKA". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following: ‘We hereby inform you of the debate on topical and urgent questions, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny on Thursday 17 October 2019, that the topical questions to be discussed are as follows: The Question No 90-14-10-2019 to the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon-Adoni Georgiadis. The Question No 89-14-10-2019 and Question No 534/5-9-2019 under Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Mavroudi Voridis. The Questions Nos 105/15-10-2019, 106/15-10-2019, 107/15-10-2019 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis. Questions Nos 93/14-10-2019 and 97/15-10-2019 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Theodore Livano.’. So the whole question will be answered today. We will begin with the third under number 106/15-10-2019, the first question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Let workers be immediately paid for in the steel industry." Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, it is well known that there is a problem with the workers in the steel industry. From 2013 until now, there has been an unprecedented cruel attack by the employer, who has fully exploited all the anti-government legislation, both the current government and the previous ones. The employer has made redundancies twice. "Substantially voluntary departures" are said by business groups and governments, in order to make the system appear less barbaric. About three hundred workers lost their jobs. It also proceeded to wage cuts in 2013 and to set working time. At the same time, from 2013 to 2018, he kept the workers available for about three months each year, while on other times he had put them under rotation. All these fruits, of course, are yours. Today, he has about a hundred and fifty workers for three months, while the owner of the steel mill has expressed the will to close the factory. Production activity on the substance has stopped. The steel mill stopped working in 2012, while the mill and the grid were working occasionally until 2016. Since December 2018, electricity has been stopped. All of this has brought the workers of the steel industry into a bad economic and psychological state, as they see their future uncertain, while the debts to the ECSC, banks, taxes are increasing. The course of the steel industry, like other major industries in the metal industry, confirms that what leads to strategic industries close down while they could support growth for the benefit of the people, in the context of an economy that would serve the people's needs, is the result of competition between business groups. It turns out once again that the factories do not close the workers' struggles, as the employers and their political staff are commanded and their trade unions are snatching, in order to strike the collective action of the workers, but they are opening and closing solely with the greatest capitalist profitability and with the victims every time the workers and their rights. What we are asking you, Minister, is what measures will you take as a government to ensure that the workers of the steel industry are immediately paid for their jobs and what you intend to do so that an industry of strategic importance for the country does not put a lock on it, with all that that implies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the adventure of steel has taken place since 2013 and the Ministry of Labour, as well as especially the Ministry of Development and Investment, are trying to help relaunch the production process. Mr Colleague, let me say that it is not a question of labour legislation, as you have started your question, nor a question of the profitability of this chapter which is aroused by 'Caliburg'. What is stirring up the steel industry is that it has stopped producing. And when a factory has stopped producing, you realize the consequences for workers. The crucial issue, therefore, is the reopening of the steel industry, when the outstanding legal disputes currently taking place between the shareholders of the company are resolved. We have met with both the workers and the employers and the Ministry of Labour on several occasions, but, as I said, the Ministry of Development, with a view to finding a sustainable solution. I met the workers two weeks ago in the House. We are fully aware of the great issue that has been raised. And the most substantial and sustainable way to resolve this crisis is to reopen the business, resolve the differences between shareholders, invest new funds necessary. The creation of a more friendly investment climate than the New Democracy Government will of course play a catalytic role in this. There is, as you have said - and you have described it correctly in your question - a loose end with the Public Power Corporation, with PPC. It has to be resolved as well. The power plant has stopped. There are currently various possibilities both through the extrajudicial compromise and through, until recently, the hundred twenty-dollars to the ministries of Labour and Economics, in order to enable the company to face debts created during the ten-year crisis and the special crisis that this company has experienced since 2013. The work of the Ministry of Labour systematically tackles and solves problems of the steel industry is a given one. You know that the Collective Arrangements Department, the Reconciliation Department, has held repeated reconciliation meetings with employees and employers. Unfortunately, however, these meetings have shown the dimension of worker and business opinions, both in terms of the availability of workers and in terms of the rotation of work, which have finally been implemented, but it seems that they have not been able to contribute to the reopening of the plant. Our Ministry, in cooperation with the relevant ministries, and due to the application of the availability measure, in accordance with the current legislative framework, proceeded with the adoption of three joint ministerial decisions on the payment of the availability allowance by the OAS to workers in the steel company of EUR 290,000, EUR 143 000 and EUR 258 000 respectively, which represented 30% of the average standard wages for the last two months under full-time employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u5	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Of course the question, but also the answer, proves the deadlocks of this system and of this competition of conflicts, of conflicts, of who will win more than that, who will in any case ensure profitability within such a system of inconsistent competition. Victims are the workers. You said a lot about what the government is doing for the company, making it easier, through various facilities, for decisions that you have already taken. However, you do not do thanks to the workers, beyond what they deserve anyway. The availability law says the OAED completes this amount up to 20%. Workers have seen this period, since 2012, their lives being a real hell, the debts increasing. Have you taken any other measures for them? They are not paid, but they have to pay taxes, they have to pay PPC, they have to pay HIS, they have to pay everything. They are not paid by the employer, but they should be all right to the state. The employer may have facilities, the employer will, according to the government, be able to make instalments, reduce the taxation of the employer, etc. All this is the friendly environment, as you said, which the government is seeking to shape in order to reopen the business or to get investors to come. Minister, will the workers pay it? All this court dispute, which has long been in existence among the shareholders, should the workers pay it? So, whatever the subject may be, it is a question of the form of organization of the economy, who has the factory and when it closes it, when it opens it. This must be seen by workers, that this form of organization of the economy cannot guarantee them their work, cannot guarantee them the lives they deserve, cannot guarantee them a decent wage, cannot guarantee them insurance, cannot guarantee anything. Everything's in the air, it's all temporary, until the shareholders decide to shut down the factory, or, anyway, there's this whole operation that we're seeing today. That's the situation. On this, of course, the answers are expected: 'We did reconciliation meetings, we did an effort, but what should we do? This is the operating framework of the system.’ This is what you tell us here today. It's like that, you say it, you don't hide it. However, this must also be heard by the workers. This must be done once and for all by the workers to take the factories into their hands and can indeed be through a central design of production, because the needs, Mr Minister, of production from the steel industry, have not been stopped. They didn't stop. They'll cover them, imports, one another. However, this is the point, and we call on the workers to draw conclusions from these debates here, the questions and the answers. We are not satisfied with the answer, Minister, and we believe that the government should be faced with the problem facing the left-wing workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u8	Mr Colleague, you are provoking a more general ideological debate on the capitalist system than on the system of central planning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u9	It's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u10	I don't think it's the right forum to do this today. Of course I could remind you and we could discuss the standard of living that the capitalist system has managed to offer to all workers, to the developed economies of the world, in relation to the central planning systems which our continent has tried, but also to other countries in previous decades, the high standard of living experienced by the Western Europeans in relation to the Europeans of the former Eastern Europe - I think he has definitively answered these ideological questions - as well as the degree of freedom that citizens have experienced in the West in relation to the countries of the former Eastern Bloc. I think that all this has been closed in modern history. However, let us not concentrate now on the issues of political science and let us go to this particular question today. I can assure you, Mr President, and all the National Representation that the Government has been bent on the problem of the steel workers at the first moment. In order for there to be employees, there must also be employers. This is a reality of life, which you may question in theory, but it is a reality. And the fact that there is a strong dispute between shareholders is certainly something that does not help to protect workers. Unfortunately, you're right about that. We understand that within 2019 these issues will have been resolved by justice, and this will allow shareholders now to return to the issue of 'the steel industry'. Of course, it is important, from now on, that they be able to deal with the many problems that have arisen in the years of the crisis. What I do not think is positive for the steel industry, and I would like to mention it, is that there are well-established debts to the social security funds, and that is our absolute priority in the Ministry of Labour to collect debts to the social security funds, because they are resources belonging to the workers and they must be paid. This company has been in favour of the one hundred and twenty instalments, it has paid only one dose and this arrangement has been lost, which you realise will be a new source of problem for the reopening of the steel industry. As far as workers are concerned, there was a meeting with them. There are multiple meetings of the relevant ministries. We are trying to find ways of temporarily reducing the problem they face until a definitive solution is found. Another definitive solution cannot be found from the reopening of the plant because, if it does not work again, you realise that unfortunately the future of the workers is, I could say, sloppy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, just thirty seconds. Because the Minister tried to say that history solved this issue of socialism and capitalism, but the barbarity that the world is living in is the result of this system and the rights that you have so far removed are the result of the existence of socialism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. We continue with the first with number 90/14-10-2019 topical question of the first cycle of MP B3' South Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nikolaos Papapas, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The issues of competition arising from the possible acquisition of “FORTHNET” by the company “ALTER EGO” and the responsibilities of the Ministry of Development and Investment. Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis will answer the timely question. Mr. Poppas has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, reports refer to the completion of the acquisition process of the company 'FORTHNET - NOVA' by the company 'ALTER EGO', in the interests of Mr Marinakis. The same publications speak of the payment of EUR 45 million, when the same company has debts of more than 300 million, which will get bored at a rate of 80%. Obviously, microprofessionals cannot have the same luck, as we both know firsthand and heard yesterday say it in this Chamber, as we discussed the development bill with the bodies, which we will discuss in an hour's time. There will be two very serious issues: there will be overconcentration in the media, because this businessman not only has newspapers, radios, satellite television and terrestrial television, but there will also be a major issue in the football sector. There I think things are, I could say, even more blunt. And there is no right for the political leadership to do that nothing is going on. In football, if this is the case, very simply, one FAE, Olympiacos, will control the funds of the other FAO. In the football anonymous companies of the First National Class, Super League, 80% with 90% of their revenues are television rights. Football, except for a very beautiful sport, is a separate television product or activity, which can be very productive. It could bring incomes, create jobs. And here goes on to create a distortion, which will devaluate it in total in the eyes of the Greek fan. We made a suggestion to you. The answers you gave were completely inadequate when we discussed our timely question. We made a proposal to you: why not interfere with the ERT and with the use of a piece of its reserve to buy out FORTHNET - NOVA? The ERT is neutral. He has no preference for who will win the championship. Don't laugh, Mr. Voridis, you too. Because here we will have the Alter EGO, the interests of Mr Marinakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u15	I'll laugh when he answers...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u16	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u17	So we will have Alter EGO, in Mr Marinakis' interests, to control the funds of the other PDPs. He said to him: 'Hold 3-0 and then you'll be paid for television rights'. Things are very simple. And you have the legal tools, Law 3959/2011, Article 23(1). We have used him in the past, too, to ask for the opinion of the Competition Committee. And we also raise the question of the intervention of the great giant called "Greek Radio and Television", which, tragically, every time something serious exists on the market, you put him to sleep or you kill him, as you did in 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is interesting to discuss the proposal for the acquisition of FORTHNET by ERT following the previous debate on capitalism and communism. It fits one conversation with the other. Mr. Pappa, let's get things started. First of all, it seems to me that you are constantly coming back to the same subject. I understand the need for opposition and that is right. Parliamentary control is also very right, but you are starting to show a kind of madness with this issue, which, you know, is misunderstanding in Greece. Some kind of mania you have on this subject. And it's a misunderstanding. You can't ask the same time-consuming question every week. Because in the football field there are many different interests. It's not just about one person's interests. They have others. So whoever shows mania can be accused of being with others instead of one. So just pay attention to the limit. But now let's go talk about this. I like talking in particular. The acquisition process - because it was private - of FORTHNET began in our own government, in the Government of Mitsotakis? Oh, no. It started in 2016. Do you know who was government in 2016? You were Mr. Tsipras. Did you put any terms on anyone, not to take Marinakis or not to take it from anyone who owns football teams, in the process that you started? Answer: No. Now you remembered when you lost authority. That's weird. Secondly, I can assure you that our Government has no involvement in this process. It's a process the creditor banks do, as you started it. It's an open procedure. Anyone who wants to go and submit an offer. If anyone wants to go and submit a better offer than Mr. Marinakis, I wish he'd go and testify. No objections. I myself as Minister of Development will be very happy if there is a better offer from Mr Marinakis. So far, as far as I understand it, the banks, without government intervention, have decided that there has been no better offer. If you keep in mind someone else who's interested, I'd be happy to say that. The proposal to buy FORTHNET from ERT accepts it as a joke. You understand that we have been voted on by the Greek people saying that we will make massive privatisations. Did you hear me, Mr. Voridis, Mr. Mitsotakis, promulgating the Greek people by electoral means, Mr. Pappas? Or did you hear us talk about mass privatisations? So let's get this straight. You came down with your own agenda, we were on our own agenda. The Greek people voted to privatize us. And this government, you know, is not going to do backwards from what it promised in the election. But I have to say, why am I surprised? Why didn't you buy the FORTHNET with ERT? Instead of starting the process in 2016, you, Mr. Pappas, who ask me the question, why didn't you get the ERT reserve to buy 'FORTHNET', since it was so easy? Not only did you not do that, but listen to what you did. You added a 10% tax on pay-TV, destroying competition and reducing its value. Because pay-TV, as you know, competes with subscription channels abroad, which do not pay a single euro tax in Greece. So you went to a market perfectly competitive and made it less competitive. And instead of using, Mr Pappas, the ERT reserve to buy 'FORTHNET', you went and shared. You personally? ERT's administration? Then the director? It would be a good thing if this were investigated. I'm not a prosecutor to investigate. But I would very much like a prosecutor to investigate this so that I can understand which criterion you had one team get 5 million and the other 1 million. And what advertising would ERT expect from the 68 million you said to give the football teams? Because you know, the 68 million you were going to give, it wasn't yours. They were Greek taxpayers. And you know the best? Because you did so through ERT, you went over the state aid that the European Union bans. Of course, by giving the money through ERT, they did not go as state aid to the anonymous football companies. So you went to play personal with the football companies, with the money of the Greek taxpayers. And you come to the House now and ask me a question while you have this past. That is, normally on this subject, there was to be a debate in the House, and you, in particular, Nikos Papapas, should be in the opposite building. Don't come here at all. So dirty you have your nest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u20	What do you think? Get a little serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u21	I'm thinking about it. The process of depriving FORTHNET was launched in SYRIZA. The Mitsotakis Government has no involvement in this matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u22	How long will he talk, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u23	You will also speak, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u24	It's a private matter between companies. The government is not involved. And ERT won't buy it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u25	Mr Colleague, you will also have time to speak without a matter. There are questions. The Minister has the responsibility of his own people, as do you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u26	We all have a responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u27	So I can't interrupt the minister. If anyone has a different opinion, he'll call it. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. If the conversation is creative, it's a good thing to have it. But I think the National Representation has realised that there are more chances for Orthodoxy to agree with Catholicism than the honourable Minister to regain his seriousness. Now let's go see them one by one. Are you seriously asking us why we didn't do what, when we were government? Is there any interested person who, if the acquisition of NOVA - FORTHNET were to be completed, would these competition issues be raised? This company appeared, which has as much a face-to-face conflict of interest as there can be in both the football and the media, as is the case with press distribution. And we ask for state intervention, as we did in 2016. There was an exclusive right to negotiate when it was our own governance to another businessman. This period is closed. Reopens the game, Mr. Marinakis shows up. We tell you that there is a conflict of interest and you say we do not interfere. You're asking me why ERT didn't do what? You have invoked me for two opposite things in the exact same answer. You tell me he shouldn't have bought off, and then you asked me why we didn't buy FORTHNET - NOVA. We bought the rights seven, eight Super League teams, and we wanted to continue. And tell you why? Because ERT could really replace the privatised PPP. The OPCW - because you also asked me about advertising revenue - when he paid the football anonymity companies - is that not his name and the fundamental principle that is to support football? Then you privatized him. Yes, sir! He didn't expect to get the money back from the commercial. Of course, the money is Greek taxpayers. Like the Greek taxpayers' money, it is also the money that has been recapitalised by the banks, which you are now bogging as "FORTHNET - NOVA" loans to serve the individual entrepreneur. Isn't that Greek taxpayer's money? I don't understand! Also, be careful to see, because you are trialing for intent, your answer was rather indicted. So there's a measure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u30	To me, Mr Pappa, if you dreamed a lot there on SYRIZA to see me indicted and - as it turns out - you did everything, and with constructions to see me, you failed. So I'm not gonna give you an apology. Who'll give an apology we'll see in the pre-examination and how they'll give it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u31	Give the interests!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Pappas spoke, there was complete silence. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u33	I think you're not in them. For the others, we'll see. It was a little personal, wasn't it? Let's have a little bit of a measure. You are the ones who are controlled by the preliminary and three prosecutors that you have set up a service against your political opponents. So be a little careful. I read your question: "Have he examined our proposal for the acquisition of FORTHNET - NOVA" by "ERT S.A.", in order to obtain multiple benefits for the public interest? So I replied when you were Minister, these multiple benefits for the public interest, why didn't you go to purchase 'FORTHNET'? What's your answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, hold the time at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u36	There's a rule. I'm trying under the Rules of Procedure to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u37	If the Minister permits...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u38	I'll allow it. Let him say it. Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u39	Look at you, Mr. Pappa. It's not gonna be a show here. I mean the following. The Minister does not direct the debate. We're in a parliamentary procedure. The Ministerial Council can say anything. So that I don't blame you, so you don't think I have anything personal, I'll let you talk for ten seconds. But it won't happen again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u40	I promise. Thanks for both tolerance and understanding. You asked us why we didn't buy it. There was an exclusive right to negotiate. Why do I have to repeat this and have a deaf dialogue here? At the end of that period, another offer was made. In the new offer on the ground, we find a huge conflict of interest. You're saying there's nothing wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u41	Thank you. Minister, you will not give the floor again. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u42	It's nice to have such a conversation here and in good faith. So you're telling me that when there was an exclusive right to negotiate with a previous businessman, you didn't want to intervene. Now that there is an exclusive right to negotiate with another businessman, we have to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u43	I'm saying there was no conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u44	Mr Pappa, whether there is a conflict of interest in the sense of violating competition rules will be judged by the relevant Competition Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u45	Send the letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u46	I do not have to send the letter, because there are three different ways in which the Competition Committee is responsible. One is to send a letter. The other one is doing it on his own. And the third is if there's a complaint. I imagine that after your complaints, there will be a relevant file in the Competition Committee. The Competition Committee will therefore be called upon to give its opinion. And I assure you, because we have created a normal Competition Committee in which we do not intervene at all with our friends and directors of our office and our legal advisers, like others,...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u47	Get Mr. Mylonakis to tell us now! Mr President, you will give me the floor now on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u48	But I didn't say any names. What personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Poppa, there's no staff. He didn't mention anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u50	You have the fly!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u51	I'll see you on the board!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u52	Please! A topical question you've asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u53	Did I say a name? I didn't say any names. I told you. We have created a normal competition committee that works and I can assure you that, if the Competition Committee considers that competition is affected, its decision will be implemented. With regard to the populism you are doing, and with regard to the haircut and the fact that the Greek taxpayer will pay for the various tears, I did not understand, in the procedure that began on SYRIZA, that was not a haircut provided by the banks? How would it be possible to buy FORTHNET on SYRIZA without a haircut? So the haircut is good if it happens on SYRIZA, why then are taxpayers' money respected, while it's bad if the haircut is done on Mitsotakis? I've told you before, Mr. Pappa, and you're not mindless. Here's the difference. You continue to conduct yourself as Opposition as if you were in 2014. And we may hear you every day asking even indirectly for forgiveness from Antonis Samaras for throwing him. It would be better if you said it directly, "I'm sorry, Antonis Samaras, that we dropped you", instead of one of you coming out every day and saying "what a mistake you made that we cast Samaras!", like Tsakalotos, Culloglou, Voutsi, you all said. And you do well to say it. Say a human apology and more to Greece - but now you have ruled five years. Business loan haircuts have been made several times over by SYRIZA. So you can't yell for the haircut. Call the JRC, let me get this straight. You yell, you can't. Because when you were Minister, on your day, the banks cut off many businesses. So leave the tears - I told you again in committee - and let us talk seriously. If there is a competition issue, it will be examined in the Competition Committee. But I know - and you know that - that there is no exclusive right of 'NOVA' in the channels. Football teams have other channels. Football games have other channels. And as for what you said, a businessman can blackmail by saying "let's lose, because otherwise I won't pay you", you understand the ridiculousness of the argument. First, a simple complaint such as this would blow the businessman's contract into the air. And secondly, and most importantly, whatever team he wants, he goes to another channel, Mr. Pappa. And other channels have football teams.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u54	What channels? You're withdrawing ERT.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u55	So what you're saying is not true. In any case, though, because, in the republics, the ruthless concerns must be dealt with institutionally - and I accept that - I say that, when any bank agreement - 'NOVA' and Marina comes to an end, the Competition Committee will be dealt with. And if the Competition Committee considers that the competition laws of the European Union are violated, then the law will be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much. We will continue with the first with number 89/14-10-2019 topical question of the second question of Pelion Pelion's Radical Left coalition, Mr. Theodoras Jackis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Aid for de minimis aid and other tools to support the agricultural income of peaches". Mr. Vorides will answer. Mrs. Jackie has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u57	Minister, the peaches have contributed and continue to make a significant contribution to the local economies of Pella and Imathia. Let us remember that 12 thousand families ensure that they survive their farming and twenty-six processing industries, which employ a thousand five hundred permanent and ten thousand seasonal employees, have been active in these prefectures. But it also makes a significant contribution to the national economy. Let me say that the final product of processing, the compost, the juice, the jam, is almost all exported and income enters our country which exceeds EUR 300 million a year. Of course, there have been problems with the marketing of peaches in recent years. I, Minister, have a few years to remember in the past that producers have enjoyed a really good price. And this, when it happened, was due to a reduction in production. In particular, I would like to say that there are problems with the peach at its disposal because of industry's dear tactics, with various pretexts either for overproduction or for low-quality or high-installation stocks to give prices that do not correspond to the quantities produced or to the qualities offered. This was the case this year when production did not even approach the four hundred thousand tonnes that industry can theoretically absorb, and the prices given were extremely low in order to maximise the profit. The table peach, and I tell you, while it started with good prospects from the imposition of the Russian embargo in 2014, has actually been damaged irreparably. There have been measures by the European Community of withdrawals, free distribution, humanitarian aid in recent years, you know that too. Unfortunately, however, the income of table peaches producers has never been restored, because in fact the Russian market, which was the main recipient, has never been replaced with other markets despite the thorough efforts to get this peaches to both Arab countries and Balkan countries as well as to the countries of Eastern Europe. Of course these problems will be added to the problem of adverse weather conditions, which we experienced this year, mainly prolonged rainfall in the summer months, which have also reduced production and the quality offered, resulting in a cumulative reduction in producers' incomes, I would say his disappearance. Reminding the respective circumstances and in 2017 and 2018 the SYRIZA government gave de minimis aid to producers, because there was just a survival issue. In 2017, it gave 8.5m euros and in 2018, i.e. last year, it gave 13.5m euros. I think that this should also be done by your Ministry, in order to be able to support the producers, to cope with the problems of their families' survival, but also with the problems of expenditure and expenditure, so that they can grow in time too, Minister, because this is also the issue. Also consider what is proposed by Commissioner Hogan, namely the possibility, in the direction of strengthening their income, of giving them associated aid both in table peach due to restructuring problems and to the composted peach which leads to the compost and not, in any case, to the production of juice, because in the production of juice this product receives related aid. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th Municipal School of St. Untreated. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, my colleague. We know the problem. I've met with the producers, we've discussed it, it's known. You ask me two questions if we consider the de minimis aid and whether we consider the link. I'm telling you, we're both looking at them, so that's something we'll see. But I must say this, which has to work, and I want to engage in a creative debate. What I would like you to see as something that should be in the direction of a definitive solution to the problem as far as possible. There are no definitive solutions in life, but as far as possible. I say this because, as you know, the de minimis procedure is a procedure which has certain conditions. What are these conditions? An exceptional, unforeseen event cannot be covered by another mechanism of compensation. And in your question you mention something that needs to be considered. That's been a long time. In other words, he loses the character here. I'm not telling you this to rule out the procedure. I tell you again, we assess it and we think about it. But it is also clear - and I think our producers do not want this - that we cannot get into a process in which the solution to the production issue is de minimis. State the amounts allocated over the last two years, in 2017 and 2018, i.e. 8.5 million and 13 million 100 000 granted by de minimis. And there's another matter coming up. I would add to this information that from 2011 to September 2019, this production - I am talking about peaches - has been compensated by the ELGA for damages of 92,634,000 euros. We're talking about about 8% of ELGA's allowances. So there is a structural issue that needs to be addressed in this production. And we need to get into a deep and serious debate. I repeat, we receive the government three months ago, we have a shaped situation and I recognise the problem that exists for 2019. I say, however, that with this production we should have a bigger debate, which is that we need to find a way. This is why other issues are being created. Other producers will rise through ELGA, who will return to raise the question of the amounts of insurance and how these amounts are distributed through the compensation procedure itself. I don't know if you're watching what I'm telling you. In other words, if everyone pays 4%, but it ends up with 8% going to a particular production, there is a question of internal compensation allocation, an issue of internal justice. They will therefore begin to raise issues which must be dealt with. The answer to your question is, therefore, that yes, we are considering both, but at the same time we want to join producers in a more profound structural debate on how to deal with the problems that exist. There are a number of things going on, it's an international debate. You know that, if the duties imposed on the compost were not to be avoided in the peach processed initially from the point of view of the American administration, the situation would be aggravated. But there are also some voices to see what we are going to do with the embargo. So we also need to make an assessment of the international market. We are also dealing with other considerations, which have to do with absorption through internal processes of some quantity of production, in order to deal with the problem. But I repeat that it is obvious that we cannot rely on de minimis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u60	I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he would like to make a statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u61	Minister, really the cultivation of peaches is facing years of problems, which would be more appropriate to deal with through a long-term strategy which, if you wish, in the long term, would lead to better results. However, the real issues - you raised some of them - did not raise them. It could help producer organisations, for example. It is a tool that has not been used in our country because of the structural problems that the cooperative movement itself faces. You know that there could be a critical negotiating mass. The problem with producers is that it is the weak link in the chain involving the compact peach and cannot actually participate in the formulation of a price that not just gives them no way out of their problems, but does not even cover the cost of production, and you know it. I think it is time for the producer organisations to play their part in this process and, if you like, to be absorbed, and critical Community funds that are now being lost. From there on, I think that the newly established interbranch organisation of the sector, which could be a platform for dialogue between all the actors involved and, in any case, for the problems to be removed and for them to be able to find solutions even to the price issues, has not worked and I think that, with your help, this could at some point be rationalised and operated. Also, why are you not dealing with the subject of restructuring, particularly in the table peach that, Minister, does Commissioner Hogan himself propose? You have rightly said that, too, this is a result of the Russian embargo, for which the producers are not responsible and you know it well. Mr. Arachovitis has sent a letter. During the election period a dialogue began. You also send a new, updated proposal so that we can proceed with a serious restructuring programme. Because it is true in table peach only through the restructuring programme, Mr Minister, that we will be able to resolve the problem, so that we do not find ourselves in the extraordinary need to pay de minimis aid every year. I understand that this does not solve the problem, but tell me how to deal with the problem of the survival of producers at the given juncture. To what you have referred to, in the matter of ELGA compensation and how many people in the final costs are involved, take into account, however, that the farmers are involved in the ELGA procedure by paying the highest contributions. With a different rate of insurance contributions, we also have arable crops in our region, and with a different percentage, which you know very well that it is in the critical period of time that all these natural disasters are happening and all these natural disasters, the adverse spring weather conditions, which are very vulnerable to crops, and that is why they have taken a very important part of ELGA compensation. All these issues must be taken very seriously into account. In any case, I understand that there is no time to resolve them through a long-term strategy this year. Indeed, I am pleased that you have dealt with and dealt with both issues, because it is very important. But, Minister, the decisions must be taken very quickly. As the only solution to alleviate the economic problems of our peaches producers at this stage is to pay de minimis aid, which the government has to decide, and that is what is being called for. You must consider, as I have said in the first part of my question, the part to grant linked aid which could also mitigate the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes. Please don't get over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u63	I think I'm going to need less, because I don't see any disagreement, at least first of all, about the approach to this issue. Look, the main problem that exists, and unfortunately it did not come about this year, but there is over time, is that there is more production than the industry can absorb. This has been identified as a problem in the discussions and it has emerged in the interprofessional discussions. There's a contradiction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u64	That's not it. I'm telling you. This year, not even four hundred thousand tonnes were caught.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u65	The second problem is that there may not have been sufficient efforts and a debate is being opened here, but it is particularly a debate on which the Ministry can only express a wish here and it cannot do more. As part of the inter-professional process of penetrating markets that will replace Russia's lost and problematic market, so far this has not been achieved and has been a long time. The reasons for that are there. They are also commercial, but, unfortunately, this has not been achieved. Of all this, we come to the reality of producers who have a problem with their income. Their organization, you will allow me to tell you, as I see it now, and I know it, is not negligible. They have good organisations and strong organisations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u66	They don't have any organisations...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u67	They are also reliable - in a sense - and they are powerful interlocutors, if they want it, of industry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u68	If they want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u69	But that is something that has to do - let me say so - with their own business. We can't do this job. Well, there's the possibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u70	Our Almond!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u71	I'm telling you, we're going to look at all this. It is clear - and I tell you something wider now, I leave the peach, but I say it because we have raised the issue of damage and ELGA - that what we have today is a system that is not satisfied. We need something different, we need something more. This is where we're going to have a conversation. This is not a debate that we will finish in two months' time, it is a more complex debate. But it is a debate in which we are seeing for the first time - and I appreciate it as a positive one - private insurance. I say to you that - I have said so many times - this is contained in the New Democracy programme, the private insurance and public insurance synergy. I have to tell you that until now there has been no slightest interest in private insurance. Aifne, lately, I can tell you that for the last fifteen days and starting and there is such an interest. I appreciate it in general, that private insurance companies, specialised in the agricultural insurance sector, come to discuss how they can provide additional and additional services and under what conditions and open this debate. I am telling you again that it is not a debate that will end next week or next month, but it is a debate which I think will end up in the interest of producers, in order to address structural problems in the compensation mechanism that we have been tracking for many years, but it seems that it has not been possible to resolve.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u72	We continue with the first question under number 534/5-9-19 of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The framework for the functioning of interbranch organisations". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question concerns the ministerial decision, the newly repealed by you, number 1493/142299 of 20 July 2019. It concerns, first of all, harmonisation by Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 and national legislation since 2016. In particular, the articles of the Regulation from 2013, Article 157, 158, 159, 159 to 210 provide for a new framework for the functioning of interbranch activities, and indeed with increased responsibilities. In particular, Article 164 on the extension of the rules gives interbranch and new, increased role. Since 2013, it has been known to the inter-professional and stakeholders, participating, the new framework that had to come and make legislation before, as was done in 2016, and secondary to the ministerial decision, which we are discussing. What's the matter? That through a process, a multi-annual consultation procedure, we have reached this specific ministerial decision and it is important to whom this consultation has taken place. This consultation was carried out with the directly concerned, i.e. producers producing from the field, in manufacturing, standardisation and exports. There has been an exhaustive debate over the years on the new framework of interprofessionalism. What's the target? The aim was to protect the product on the one hand, but, above all, to balance the representation of all these producers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will conclude the question in half a minute. We spoke just now about peaches, cotton, which is timely because of its price for olive oil, olive oil, feta, wine, meat, not about honey, about eggs, about all the products which present their own structural problems and the interprofessional sector could be a roof and a table, if you like, of all these aspects. What was the problem to date, which we have come to resolve? It was a question of questioning the representativeness of all sides within the interbranches, whether existing or the ones under recommendation and moving forward in their composition. But the question here is, what kind of interbranch organizations do we want, to whom...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Comrade, in your dentistry the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u75	I come to the question and finish, Mr President. Questions are as follows: First of all, what kind of interprofessional we want, for whom do we want, who will represent, what will be the representativeness of all sides, and finally what are the proposals? Because the main issue is this: participation and representativeness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Comrade, I doubled your time. Minister, you have the floor and I hope that you will be consistent and that we will not exceed the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, I shall try and resign me, in any case, if I fail to do so. Mr Colleague, I expected you to ask me why I have abrogated your decision, which is an important one, I think I should like to ask you an explanation why your decision was repealed, because I have abrogated your decision. And it was too much to be involved in signing your question. I will answer that: First, for one reason, which is institutional. This decision was adopted through the election period. As you know, we are not making decisions - I am not saying that it is forbidden, I am not saying that it is illegal - for reasons of moral order. We haven't dealt with issues in the last few days. The presence of the Ministers at the Ministry in recent days has always been a formal process, but not a real regulatory framework. So there's an institutional - moral issue here. Secondly, I do not know what consultation you have been holding and with whom, because I have met all their inter-professional and representatives. And the first request that I received from the interprofessionals, which you come to defend today, was to abolish the decision. The first thing I was asked to do was to abolish the decision and, in fact, to point out that they wonder how such an important decision could have been taken without prior consultation with them, without being informed, without knowing the content. You realise that I do not demand you to agree, because the Minister is indeed responsible. It doesn't mean that every time, because someone's gonna say something, it's an obligation for the minister to do it the way the agency wants. But you have been in the government for four and a half years and you are taking out this regulatory framework 15 days ago, in a fundamental disagreement with the whole set of regulations. You will tell me - and you will be right - that these are a little procedural. Let's go to the jumble. What's the problem with my decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u78	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u79	That's right. Let me find a few problems for you. Firstly, vagueness in the way in which interbranch organisations are formed. Article 2(2). ‘Recommended as private persons of a non-profit character with legal personality, recommended in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Code’. What provisions of the Civil Code? The Civil Code on Legal Persons says: unions, civil companies, institutions, associations of persons. Different provisions of the Civil Code for each of them. With what provisions? Therefore, vagueness in this matter. Secondly, the issue of representativeness is one of the greatest. Why? Because you are putting 1/3 of the total production. What is the determination procedure for each different product of the total production? A very important issue, which is not the method of calculation, and from which damage arises. Next item: Expansion of rules. You are giving a binding or, rather, a potential binding commitment, which I wonder what it is about, because you say that on certain issues the decisions of interbranch organisations can also be binding on non-members of interbranch organisations. So what are you doing here? You are transferring regulatory authority to a legal person under private law. I don't even know if you can do it. It's a conversation. Because your lawyers perceive that there is a matter here, they form a condition. The condition is that the extension of the rules takes effect by a decision of the Minister for Rural Development. Is the decision made by the Minister for Rural Development binding? So, if the interprofessional α decides, is the Minister obliged to take a decision on this? Answer: No, it's not, because otherwise you wouldn't have to. So it's possible. But, if it is possible, what does the entire article and the entire regulation of bindingity mean, because it depends on the Minister's political will?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u80	Minister, you asked me to give up on you. You've reached five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u81	You forsake me and I'll stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Arachovite, be within time limits too. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u83	I'll be. We have entered the point and I am glad that it is not so important who has asked you to abolish the ministerial decision. You will have been informed, I imagine, by the services that some of these interbranches already have a problem with their recognition and further information has been requested on the basis of the previous ministerial decision. So, for the credibility of interprofessionals - and that is exactly what I am pointing out - the productive bodies that need to be involved and to form interprofessional bodies, because they have superpowers - I have told you from the outset - are the ones that agreed with the ministerial decision that you have abolished. So it is not the inter-professionals that we are discussing, but we are talking about the genuine stakeholders who should be involved. As far as time is concerned, the fact is that the ministerial decision should have been adopted earlier, because it was working. However, the state does not stop. This ministerial decision had already to have come out. I will tell you this about commitment. Yes, there is a binding commitment, which is why I told you from the outset that on the basis of 1308 and Article 164, the extension of the rules, the interbranches already have increased responsibilities, which are binding. That is why we wanted to increase the representation of 1/3 of producers together with 1/3 of processors, printers and traders, as it says. Precisely because the new inter-professionals commit the Minister, there must be representativeness. There's no other way. If we continued the same regime as 1/3 of all, only 1/3 of all interested parties could impose on the whole market and on the Minister. It must therefore be understood here that whether or not we agree with Regulation No 1308 is another debate. But it's the framework. It gives increased powers, so we too must ensure that it is representative in every sector. 1/3 of the entire production chain cannot be imposed on the whole. That's why we had to ask for 1/3. That's what the regulation says. He's giving it a chance. Puts production into place. So what has happened, Mr Minister, was precisely to help interprofessionals play the new role given to them by the new regulation, but above all to benefit producers and, of course, the product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u84	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u85	I think I explained the reasons for the abolition. Mr Colleague, there is a next question in your question which is also interesting, which is what status is now in place. The answer is that, by abolishing an order, we are obviously going to the ante regime, that is, the former regime. So let me say it differently: whatever status has existed for four and a half years of your government, there is still this quarter. What's going to happen? That's the most interesting thing. I have said that the bill on cooperatives is already written and will be consulted. The cooperative bill will also regulate a legal issue that exists in relation to producer groups. There's a legal loose end there. That's where I'm going to make a choice - I'm still thinking about it, but I think that's where I'm going to end up - including the arrangements for interprofessionals. The reason why I will give them the form of a formal law is that your ministerial decision has been adopted on the basis of a Memorandum of Understanding, which said that the application of European legislation gives the Minister a general authorisation to adopt ministerial decisions when it comes to interpreting or implementing Community legislation. This is the authoritative basis of your ministerial decision. I have a view of this that we must slowly return to the normality of legislation. Legislation means that if there is no special and explicit authorization, which gives the Minister the right to adopt a ministerial decision on a particular matter and to regulate it, such an explicit special provision does not exist. There's the general authorization I told you about. So I want the power to return to Parliament. Parliament must decide, and that is why I think it will take the form of a formal law, so we will regulate it there too. The individual issues, which exist and are important, will also be discussed in the public debate, as the regulation is to take place but, obviously, they will be more widely addressed. Speaking now of our strategy - which we will now see exactly where we stand and what we differ - we believe very much in inter-branch organisations. We believe them as an institution, we want to form them and we want to give them a role. The role we want to give them is that we want interprofessionals to develop the strategy for the product they are engaged in, that producers come along with processors, together with traders, and sit at a table and on this table to develop a strategy for the product. It is not the table - I am sure you understand it, but I say it to be heard more widely - which will resolve the differences between them, it is not the table that will bridge their own conflicting interests, it is not the table that will resolve the price issues at which they disagree. It is the table that will draw up the strategy of common interests that they have for the development and promotion of their products. That is the role of interprofessionals, so we understand it, and we believe it. That is why I have told everyone that I want the strategy to go into their own hands once they are ready to take this role. Because it's their thing too. If they do not take advantage of it, we will not leave it empty, but we will shape a framework of this kind. To finish, therefore, the issue of regulation - regulation and other increased responsibilities. The increased powers laid down in the Rules of Procedure, in fact. Regulatory nature, which means that it is essentially a matter of extra-professional law or, in any case, a regulation, that is another debate. So, yes, responsibility, but from there on, the role of the state remains dominated, in the sense that it must adopt and accept the strategy to be developed by inter-professionals. This may take the character of a ministerial decision, of course, but it remains potential. It never becomes compulsory for the administration. This, then, must be clear to us and it is quite clear what we are saying, and this partly gives rise to other issues relating to representativeness. Because the sovereign body, what will draw up the strategy and what will lay down the regulatory responsibilities, and the one who will finally lay the framework, in which he hears and accepts the proposal of the interprofessional body, remains the Minister, remains the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Arachovite, it can't be. Please, it's a bad start. I did it with Mr Papapa because he asked for the floor on staff. If we start this, we won't finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u88	Let the Minister know that it is something that has been legislated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u89	Check it out if you want. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd Municipal School of Agia Paraskevi (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with our second question under number 105/15-10-2019, with the second question from the Greek Communist Party, Mr Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Direct payment of all the employees of EXPRESS SERVICE". The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Panagiotis Mitatakis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the phenomenon of unpaid workers is neither new nor individual. It's about hundreds of businesses, tens of thousands of workers. He had started before the crisis, and within it he was generalized, permanently established as a system of employers. However, the case of EXPRESS SERVICE is an eye. For a decade there is not even once when workers have been properly paid their wages. They take against 200 euros, 300 euros for eight hours' work. The wages due exceed a total of two years. The company does not even pay the 50% reduction in wages agreed with an employer union set up by the employer itself with the cooperation of the majority of the Thessaloniki Labour Centre. Many are workers to leave, lose wages and dismissal compensation, which are left as a net profit in the company's hands. The few were justified were why they took the initiative of addressing the courts. EXPRESS SERVICE makes the pay of wages subject to extortion, not to the provision of work by workers, but to the fate of the trials that have been opened with competitors and ultimately to its profitability. Note that EXPRESS SERVICE is the largest road assistance company in Greece and among the largest private medical services companies with a large number of thousands of customers and a stream of monthly subscriptions. It extends with new investments and infrastructure, which, with a vast majority of them, have financed workers with work and unpaid wages. The U.S.A. did some checks, mainly tripartite meetings, at the appeal of the workers. It has, however, contributed from the point of view of the employer to pay the administrative fines and to continue the workers' payout. Minister, please ask: What orders will you give for the systematic, regular, comprehensive and in-depth audit of the company in the accounting office, its funds, its financial flows and what measures will you take to ensure that the receipts are prioritised to the full payment of the employees' claims? Secondly, does the company also use the OAS's unemployment plans to secure cheap labour? Finally, what measures are you going to take to ensure workers' registers at the ECA? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u91	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. You are right to say that the case of EXPRESS SERVICE is not a single case, but it is a very peculiar case. It's been amazing what's happened to this company for so many years. At the moment, EXPRESS SERVICE consists of a webbing of companies. Some are in a liquidation process, some are not in the winding-up process and have an overall debt to the social security institutions of the incredible amount of EUR 250 million. They are perhaps the largest debtor, currently in active company, who operate in some form, to the social security institutions. I want to assure the National Representation that this company, together with two - three others, is a priority for us in 2019, so that we can see very substantially all the means provided by criminal and civil justice, in order to address these debts, for the benefit of the Greek people, that is to say, for the benefit of the social security institutions. Some contributions were recently settled by the 20-dollar law. We will monitor systematically every month that the dose is paid and these debts are still regulated. We had tried in the past to use various means provided for by the legislation. An instrument that comes back with the development bill is the ODR's lockdown for businesses that systematically violate their obligations towards social security institutions. Let's be clear, that's the workers' money. It is money that is retained by workers' wages for their retirement. So we're coming back with the unsub locking down for such operations. I want to tell you there was the prediction in the past. SYRIZA abolished this tool the Ministry of Labour had. Reopened for EXPRESS SERVICE and sent us back to us - I use this verb - 8.7m euros, because SYRIZA reopened the right of these businesses to pay RES. You have also asked the question of what is going on with these workers who want to leave and who do not receive compensation. We are also legislating for this in the development bill, which is why we are giving the right to workers who are caught in more than two months' time in such companies, if they choose, to be regarded as a unilaterally harmful termination of the contract of employment and to be entitled to compensation. But the subject of EXPRESS SERVICE, apparently, is a very big open case.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Corporate of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of Parliament, twelve students and students and an educational attendant from the 5th Keratsini Municipal School. The House welcomes you. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. We believe, Mr Secretary-General, that the answer does not contain a solution to the question of how they will be paid, whether by this law or by judicial decisions, and the funds and workers. We believe that the content of the first place shows that all these mechanisms are void by the courage and authoritarianism of the employer, who, in any case, is proud not to sweat her ear, because she has strong backs, as she says, at all levels of power with any government. It remains the question of how we will achieve the result of wages being paid by workers in one case or another and how they will cover the insurance funds and their marks. We believe that the argument of the employer's "EXPRESS SERVICE" "I will pay, when I win some courts, when I win profits" is the core of the declared policy and of today's government and the previous one, and, if you like, of thirty years of effort by the civilian staff to claim this employer as a whole. When SYRIZA legislated the minimum wage level to be determined on the sole basis of competitiveness and profitability, what else did it legislate in addition to these challenges of EXPRESS SERVICE and so many other employers? You as a government legislate with the development bill. The collective agreements reached by the workers will be valid if and when the employer or the Minister so wishes. Each ‘EXPRESS SERVICE’ company will be able to invoke a risk for its profits and be self-evident from the obligations of collective agreements. What else do you legislate from the vindication of this provocative attitude of the employer when you give them the freedom not to pay the wage-free contributions to the insurance funds and to disembowel them? What else do you do but give wings to the tax evasion? Mr Minister, the 'EXPRESS SERVICE' and its tactics are not a derogation. This tactic and multi-project project helps to make law, create many "EXPRESS SERVICE". SYRIZA has implemented employers' claims to 65% according to the BSE wording and you are running to implement the remaining 35%. This multi-brand plan to know that whatever employers' terrorism is in the workplace, no matter how much the ghosts of employers' unions stand up, no matter how much the workers traded and their real unions, such as many "EXPRESS SERVICE" workers have lifted their heads and won, so the workers of the country will find the way and respond to every employer's situation, to every government. The Communist Party of Greece will be there, next to the workers, pressurize, organize their workers and struggles. No "ExPRESS SERVICE" company will leave any government and no policy that gives it wings. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to assure you that neither will we show any tolerance to such cases of violations such as the 'EXPRESS SERVICE' case. The government has shown from the outset, with the intensification of the APRC controls, that we are not giving any tolerance to the inconsistency of the labour market. This company with debts of EUR 250 million is a time bomb for social security institutions and we will use all available legal means to recover these debts. I also want to tell you that a few days ago, on 9 October this year, an auction of significant assets of EXPRESS SERVICE was held and the recovery process of these debts will continue. On the question of workers, the APRC systematically monitors and has imposed multiple fines on this undertaking. Many times this business seems to be ignoring and continuing the same practice. I'm not going to enter an ideological conversation. I did it before with your colleague. But in the free economy system it does not mean that employers may be given any immunity. There are strict rules and it is the Government's intention to apply them in the case of EXPRESS SERVICE, and in the case of three - four other companies which have been abusively exploited by social security institutions in recent years as financing mechanisms for the operation of their businesses. We made the hundred and twenty instalments. That was the end of it. From now on there will be no tolerance for those who owe social security funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Ladies and gentlemen, the following Members are calling for a short-day absence abroad. MEP Ms Maria Apatzid seeks permission from absence abroad on 20-10-2019 to 24-10-2019 for personal reasons. MEP Hara Kafantari seeks permission from absence on Wednesday 16-10-2019 and Thursday 17-10-2019 to participate in an event in the European Parliament in Brussels. Congressman Maximos Charakopoulos asks for permission from abroad from 21-10-2019 to 24-10-2019. MEP George Papaelou asks for a leave from abroad for the period 18-10-2019 to 23-10-2019 in order to go to Germany for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u98	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. We continue with the third with a number 107/15-10-2019 topical question from the Achaias MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Let the workers of the Rios casino be paid." Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, the Minister said that these are exceptions to certain issues of the capitalist way of development and of the economy. Today, however, we have three questions from the JRC about long delays in the payment of employees to operational enterprises. There are dozens, not to say hundreds more, who are either known or unknown by extortion that are delaying giving the recruits. Secondly, you have spoken of any tolerance on the part of the government in this violation of company law. But this has become a regime without concrete and concrete measures. And I say it, Minister, because in this case Ryu casino workers have been unpaid for over fifteen months. They've made a job promise, they've made court decisions for immediate payment of the entrepreneurs. They tried these judge-in-laws to collect them, but the company, although it is a casino and must have a reserve, seems that during the hours it was running, when the judges were in custody, had no reserve. How did it also work with the permission of what supervisory mechanisms a casino operates without a reserve? Apart from all these actions, the struggles of the workers have tried to exhaust the last thing they have in their hands on the basis of the legislation, a legislation which you governments have shaped and which is completely anti-government. It supports employers in every way. But anyway, they appealed to the Committee on Gambling Supervision and Control last May. On the basis of the legislation, if it finds a late payment of employees, within 60 days it is forced to take measures at the expense of the company that operates as a casino. But since then, Minister, in May, a hundred and fifty days have passed, not sixty, and the Committee on Games has whistled indifferently. She plays the priest, thus allowing the illegal operation of Rius's casino without giving any response to the workers, without even sweating her ear. From this point of view, the question is a clear one. So since the company is doomed to the courts for the immediate payment of the employees, if there is a law allowing the Gaming Commission to take necessary measures, since it owes tens of millions of euros to insurance funds and to tax, this tax office, what measures will you take on this situation for the immediate payment of employees employed in Ryu casinos, as well as for the debt it owes to the insurance funds?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u101	Indeed, Mr Colleague, today the Communist Party of Greece has tabled three very specific questions, for three companies that have major problems with the payment of a contract. As I said to both colleagues before, the government's intention is to strengthen labour law, increase the tools that both workers and control mechanisms have to deal with such illegality and irregularities. As the Greek economy returns to positive growth rates, there are no longer any excuses that may have been heard from some companies in the past that they were unable to cover accrued debts. The Greek State, with the one hundred and twenty instalments programme, is coming to free liquidity from these businesses, making a very important settlement of debts that these companies had towards the public funds, so as to further strengthen the possibility for these companies to cover what they are absolutely obliged to do with the workers. We are now also coming with the development bill, with a provision that I hope the JRC will vote, which gives the workers the right to consider a harmful unilateral termination of their contract of employment and to be entitled to the compensation provided for by the law if an undertaking has not paid the debts. You have also asked me a specific question on the matter of the Committee on Gambling Supervision and Control and you will allow me to submit a document in the Minutes and a document on it that I was sent a few days ago on the basis of your question. Indeed, there was one provision - I would say - the fireworks of SYRIZA some time ago, which involved the National Committee for Games in matters of labour disputes. Then the National Committee for Games, and specifically on August 10, 2018, asked our predecessors to the Ministry of Labour necessary clarifications so that they could activate this provision "freight" that I said before. It seems, however, that SYRIZA, which was being cut for this provision, which in practice was found to be inappropriate, has never had the time for twelve months to answer and give instructions to the Committee on Supervisory. I give it to you for the Minutes, so that the employees in this casino can also be informed. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. South Mitarakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The government, however, comes with the development bill, under Article 162, and strictens the obligations of casinos to the Greek state. This provision will, in essence, help us to resolve issues, like what you say, which have been pending for some time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u103	Minister, your answer is not justified by the fact that you have been at the Ministry for a very short time. And I say this because the Committee on Game can play games on the workers' backs, cover employers and say that it cannot do that, but at Alexandroupolis casino it did - we will not say details of what Alexandroupolis casino is - and the employer was forced to pay the wages of the workers he owed. In sixty days he did, but we will not go into details of which trade unions, how the other issues are. But here that the Committee on Gaming itself has been violating the law since the law has not been revised, why does it not? Why is it holding two yards and two stations? Are we justified, then, in saying that it makes a selective policy? Are we justified saying that he's taking back to the casino master, running the casino irregularly, operating the casino without reserves? And what conclusion do we have to draw then? That the board's knobs, someone who gives them up, and you're forged indifferently, because he sent a letter a year ago? We do not want to give any such extensions to matters, because they are primarily political, economic and class issues. But there are other things here, and you are whistling indifferently, why can this businessman with different parties have specific political relations? So, Minister, there is a specific issue here. There are judicial decisions which are violated by the particular businessman. It operates irregularly the casino, avenges the thirty-five workers because they did not lag their heads and because they are not compatible with the trade union mafia that has made them tiles with the employer. And you say 'we'll try, we'll see, we'll do it'. They will, Minister, have sprung it, but they won't grow, they tell Moria. And here we have thirty-five employees for 15 months who have taken loans to meet their needs, who cannot pay their obligations, who can't send their children to school. But this one can appear in lifestyle magazines, opening champagne and walking around with the lowest. So, let's see what the standard of living of the workers I stand for in capitalism and you said before in reply to Mr Katsotis? This? Do the workers have to bend their heads, lose their dignity so they can take some against them, become employers' dolls? If that makes sense for the trade union movement, we tell you that this will not happen and we will take care of it by taking all measures, but at least you have passed some laws. When these laws are literally violated, by the principal responsible for controlling and implementing legislation, what measures is the government taking? Of course, the workers have taken action and have filed a complaint for breach of duty in the Committee on Games. But will the government whistle indifferently? Is he gonna have them in positions there and pay them gold? Isn't that a challenge? The members of the Committee on Games are paid to avoid applying the legislation and workers should not have bread for their children? And you say, "Have you sent a letter a year and a half ago that it cannot apply this provision?". But it is true and must apply it, as it did in Alexandroupolis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u105	Mr Colleagues, we 'writing indifferently' would rather be the ones who have been unable to implement this law that they voted on for twelve months. If there are responsibilities, because the special correspondence from the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Labour has not been answered, it is something we should be looking for. The essence of things is that the Greek public is strengthening the legislation on casinos with the development bill, and we are putting further obligations on casinos to cover all their obligations in time. This demonstrates and demonstrates what I said before, that we have no tolerance to wrongdoing. In particular, as you refer to the Ryu casino, seizures have been imposed for years on every real estate that has also been found to the casino owners and confiscations have been made both to the company and to the banks and to the hands of third parties. So we are trying by every means to recover sums due to the Greek public and, of course, to the workers. The APRC and the Collective Arrangements Directorate, the Reconciliation Department, has been actively involved in dealing with and solving such problems several times. Where the company failed to fulfil its obligations, administrative fines were imposed and this has happened several times. It's a time-consuming problem. Indeed, there are a number of companies that are problems that are overdue. I think we have reached the end of a route and companies must either comply with their obligations or they cannot continue to operate and create new debts to both workers and the insurance funds. We are at another time and at the moment there must be a healthy entrepreneurship. Those who can respond will respond. To those who cannot respond, we cannot show continued tolerance. In particular, for social security institutions, I would like to stress that it is the primary priority to collect EUR 35 billion in debts, which exist from businesses to the funds that have been set up for several years and over the last four years. It is the Greek people's money and they must be repaid. We started with 20 doses. He had a great success. There have been too many rules, and for those who have not regulated, we will apply every legal instrument to protect the interests of the Greek state and the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u106	Thank you. The second question under number 93/14-10-2019 will be discussed in the first cycle of the MP Rhodope of the Change Movement Mr.Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Coverishment of imperative needs for technical staff of the Municipality of Arrianes of the Regional Unit of Rhodope'. The Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, will answer. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, the Callicratic and purely minority municipality of Arrianes with a population of around nineteen thousand, is the second in population and the largest in municipality. This municipality has fifty-seven settlements. The municipality’s needs in infrastructure such as roads, sewers, floods, replacement of water networks, etc., are therefore increased. This all goes down. However, the Municipality of Arrianes remains the only municipality in the region, which does not have a staffed technical service. Know that Rodopi Prefecture is the only municipality that has no technical service. The exception, of course, leads to tragic results. Unable to set up committees for the receipt of unmistakable work, inability to design and prepare studies, inability to carry out even those projects that the municipality has already carried out with the technical staff involved in the preparation of the necessary studies and have been integrated into the co-financed programmes. Following questions I tabled, Minister, in the previous parliamentary term, the then Minister for the Interior had said that there is the possibility, with Law 3852/2010, that the neighbouring municipality, the Municipality of Komotini, could help with the staffing. There was an appropriate correspondence and the Municipality of Komotini replied that it does not have a technical service. He had twenty-eight people, and now he has one. So it cannot help the partnership and agreement. The decentralised region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace also responded and said the same thing with its document, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes of the House. They replied that they have a serious lack of staff, and that is why they are unable to assist the project. That's how the periphery responded. Since then, the problem has not been solved. All the municipality has remained in God’s mercy, no work is accomplished, public health is at stake and nothing can be done. I think we need to find a solution to this problem. In my denture, after listening to your first position, we will see what solutions can be found to this problem for which the municipality transmits SOS.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u108	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Ahmet, you raise a matter which does not only concern the Municipality of Arrianes, it concerns almost all municipalities in the country with a similar size to the Municipality of Arrianes. It is the issue of subsistence of technical services which, as you rightly point out, poses serious problems in the smooth operation of the municipality and especially in the development of various investment projects that exist, whether at the Ministry level, such as the "Philodimos" programme, either at European Union level or at regional level. What we are going to do and what needs to be done is to exhaust all possible means of serving these technical services. The channels that exist are, in particular, the first channel of the mobility programme, which in a few days' time will be opened. In fact, the Municipality of Arrianes has requested, especially on the part of engineers, and transfers through the mobility program and new recruitments through recruitment planning, in skills that are architects, engineers, engineers, politicians, technicians, engineers, specialists, specialties that are needed to function smoothly. Indeed, I had the pleasure of meeting Mayors of Rhodope, such as the Mayor of Jasmou or the Mayor of Maronion-Sapon, who have exactly the same and similar problems, and the central municipality of Komotini cannot cover all of them as technical service. This is the main channel we're studying at the Ministry of the Interior. Immediately the mobility begins. The announcements will begin, so these municipalities can start running. In the second year, we are looking at every possibility, so that all municipalities can have technical support either autonomously as municipalities or at a slightly greater level. The fact is that, and let me tell you, it is not a municipality today, without the engineers being able to do their job. You know, it is a pity, indeed, that there are financial instruments to go ahead with some investment stuff in municipalities, and that they cannot be exploited. We therefore appreciate that, through mobility, there will be some officials who will be transferred to the Municipality of Arrianes, but also with regular staff, with new recruitments that will take place in specific areas. Emphasis will be placed on the recruitment of scientists, particularly engineers, because that is the big problem, on second level and economists, because there are many problems in various municipalities too, but we hope that a solution will be found very soon and the Municipality of Arrians will have a support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you propose two solutions: mobility and regular staff. I would like to say this: First of all, I want a clear political commitment today in plenary that both mobility and recruitment of regular staff will include the Municipality of Arrianes and other municipalities of the Rhodope Prefecture, but in particular the Municipality of Arrianes, which is facing the big problem. So the first issue is a clear political commitment from you. Secondly, you know very well that until the regular staff are announced or mobility made, some may not want to come to the Municipality of Arrianes for a thousand or two reasons. What about this problem? We have two solutions: firstly, or will we go to eight months' recruitment, that is, staff who have the right to approve studies as you know, but in this respect we have a reservation, because after eight months the engineer is leaving and, in fact, the projects are ponding and not solved. Secondly, another solution proposed by the municipalities is the following. They say: 'Since we give studies to external offices and are being studied, drafted by special study offices - if there can be a legislative initiative with the right to sign on to those who do not have a technical service - to be set up by these study offices'. Clearly, all this work process is audited and then public service received from the region. At least if you intend on the legislative initiative to enable the external offices to proceed with the projects in order to solve the problem. Because until regular recruitment takes place, until we see whether mobility which is not compulsory will work, what will happen? For five years, the problem has not been solved, and if we wait another two - three years, not that the mayor's term will end, but things will be painful, with results which may be at the expense of policy itself, in terms of public health and transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u112	You will allow me, Minister, to say that this is one of the important issues that all the small municipalities have and not only the municipality of Mr Ilhan Ahmet. I think, however, that the Member's proposal to create the private sector with a task force from the Ministry as it had been done - and that the EBRD or anyone else could take part, so that they can solve these issues immediately - will be an important step and a relief for everyone. Thank you and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u113	You're right, I said it before. Indeed, too many municipalities have exactly the same problem. There is an EBRD programme concerning small mountain and island municipalities and with which the mayor can contact the EBRD, to inform them in detail how it can be used temporarily. Indeed, the recruitment of seasonal staff, eight-month-olds, is a matter. In eight months, the same problem is happening again. In fact, some people on top of getting into the climate, continuing to work efficiently, ending the contract and leaving, so we're back to the beginning. There is also a gap between the various conventions. What matters is that it is, in fact, a thought from what we are considering, to see how studies can be carried out by external offices, that they can be done and approved even more easily by the municipalities, so that we can save the presence of an engineer. And it is characteristic that the Municipality of Arrians is currently serving two engineers, one is with a multi-year unpaid leave and the other is a TE engineer who is essentially the only one. It's a shame. I can say that in the 10K notice of the SAAP, which concerned only small island municipalities and in general island municipalities, a large part of the mountainous municipalities could be entered there, such as the Municipality of Arrianes. In a few days there are tables for university education. There could be several municipalities, like Arriana, coming in. Indeed, we will obviously place emphasis on the small municipalities for the recruitment of permanent staff. A large municipality if it has fifty engineers, fifty one or fifty two engineers will not be saved, but in a small municipality if one engineer becomes two or three, it obviously can get more selfish function. Of course we will look at the proposal as I said and which we are working on, to see how the private sector can make it easier either at local level or at regional level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the question under No 97/15-10-2019 fourth time question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Publishing information on the analytical recording of pollutants in the Gender CYTA". The Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, will answer. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, the subject of the Race is very well known. We have in practice an uncontrolled dump, which sends their garbage four million citizens for too many years now. In fact, there are complaints that they are not going only waste there, but they are illegally going other kinds of waste. In any case, it's a sanitary bomb. There is a general recognition of this. But we didn't have any studies. A study was ordered, delivered to the Municipality of Phyllis and, however, remains hidden in the mayor's drawers. We also had a leak, and yet it stays hidden in the mayor's drawers. We have an appeal order to announce the results of the study and, however, still remains in the mayor's drawers. So, it's really in your hands. Are you going to condemn this action of the mayor? Will you order the Secretary-General of the Decentralised Region to carry out the administrative sanctions necessary for this procedure, otherwise it is like being co-responsible for this crime?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, we have a given, which is very difficult to overcome. Indeed, the issue of the Race and the HYTA, is a long time ago, we have been discussing it for many years, especially the inhabitants of the West Attica region. It is an issue that concerns them and seeks to find a way to solve and undertake other areas possibly the load that corresponds to the Gender HYST with new modern factories. In general, the issue of Attica rubbish is, in fact, too long and if we do not act in a very short time, as you know better than me, we will be literally a sanitary bomb within the urban fabric of the city. As far as the substance of the question is concerned, for some reason the municipality does not provide a study carried out by ASPROFOS, as far as I understand it. The Ministry of Interior cannot exercise disciplinary control directly to mayors, because there is the self-employed of the OTAs, because there is the independence of the OTAs, which is constitutionally regulated. What can be done is that any citizen can appeal to decentralised administration, make a complaint, as he can do on any matter, say that there is an Ice Bay Attorney's order and the disciplinary procedure, can be exercised by the coordinator of decentralised administration, who - I would remind you - at this point in time, they are, in fact, not a political person. They're selected through a competition. So they can go there. The Municipality of Phyllis, by means of a document sent to us in the light of your question, informs us that it has requested the 8-4-2019 withdrawal of the order, for reasons not mentioned in the document, and so far has not received an answer. In any case, the Ministry of Interior cannot exercise control over the TAs or invoke a mayor. Any citizen can resort to justice. In addition, there is the disciplinary review carried out by the Coordinator of the Decentralised Administration of Attica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, are you saying that the Minister of Home Affairs has his hands tied up against a mayor who violates the self-evident obligations of the state, which is the right to citizens' environmental information, to a mayor who violates the decision of the court itself, which says to him that 'delive this study', which, apart from being illegal is also immoral? In other words, has the Greek State paid money a study, which we now know shows terriblely dangerous pollutants for the health of citizens, not only of the Municipality of Florida - although the study concerns the polluters for the first kilometre - but all of Athens and Attica and yet does not even politically denounce what is happening? So, is it an act that you encourage her to happen to other municipalities? We are impressed by your attitude to wash your hands, keep neutral. What for? Should people not know the danger to public health? And why cannot you as a supervising authority and the decentralised region send your own political encouragement so that the measures, sanctions, against the mayor, who is obviously illegal, and what is clearly against the public interest? It is a time-consuming issue. It is with us that Mrs Sophia Sakova, who has raised it by the European Parliament, first of all, this issue. However, a solution must be given at some point. It's not a micro-political issue to discuss in this House. It concerns the public health of too many citizens, the citizens of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u120	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u121	Politicians often make political convictions, which mean something or do not mean anything. You know that better than I do. What makes sense is that any citizen feels that alpha, beta or mayor has violated the law, has the means to resort to it to find his point. The self-sufficiency of self-government towards the central state is very important. It is an important acquis which should not, even in cases where there may be mistakes or omissions, exercise disciplinary authority over the respective Ministry of the Interior, be it in the government of the alpha party, the beta party or the gamble party. There are procedures. I propose to anyone who cares and wants - because it is serious about public health and we must not play with public health, particularly in this area that is environmentally burdened by both HYTA and other activities - to take the necessary steps, to resort to and immediately ask for a case to be investigated by decentralised administration. At the moment, decentralised administration tells us that there has been no disciplinary procedure. Because of your urgent and timely question, they do not yet have any information, because it goes to time that is over four years. It's the 8-8-2015 story started, if I'm not mistaken. As soon as the data is collected, we will be happy to pass it on and see exactly what decentralised administration will tell us. In any case, however, there are specific procedures which any citizen can follow at the moment and find his point of view if he considers that he has been affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. We will be strictly interrupted for three minutes and continue with the legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We shall now proceed to the supplementary agenda for the next partsession. LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle of the articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the exchange of financial communications of an agreement extending the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on the imposition of import restrictions on categories of archaeological and Byzantine ecclesiastical material up to the 15th century C.E. of the Hellenic Republic’. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to this agreement. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u124	The House has agreed. The Parliamentary Groups of SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the Greek Solution were reserved. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Malama, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, the protection of archaeological treasures and cultural goods in general must be a global objective and an international area of cooperation. In this direction, bilateral agreements with large countries, such as the one we are discussing today, are positive steps in the fight against the international networks of archaocausts and smuggling. The memorandum of cooperation with the United States on the protection of the archaeological, Byzantine and ecclesiastical treasures of our country can therefore contribute to the protection not only of the national, but also of the global cultural heritage as a whole. The extension of this framework to 2021 is part of a logic of deepening our cooperation with the United States on the basis of International Law on the Protection of World Heritage, which is central to the UNESCO Convention in 1970. Greece is one of the most extensive thefts, disasters, plundering and illegal removals of archaeological treasures in the world. Our country, both during the Ottoman period and during the Nazi occupation, suffered huge thefts of archaeological treasures and cultural objects, such as theft of sculptors and the Architectures of the Acropolis, mainly by Elgin, but also by other colonial forces. Accordingly, the archaeological treasures stolen from the nazis during the Occupation must be at the core of the claims relating to the debts of Germany in Greece. International law, therefore, taking into account these cases, but also the cases of countries which have also been looted, such as Egypt, Iraq and Italy, has created a framework for protection, which is the basis for the legal claim of the return of these treasures. We have heard from the Minister, during the drafting of the bill in committee, that there are some - although few, very few cases of archaeological treasures that have been returned because of their identification by the US authorities, in application of the memorandum of cooperation we are discussing today. Also, as the Minister pointed out, this memorandum of cooperation acts as a deterrent to international smuggling of cultural goods in a key art market, such as the United States. Obviously no one could disagree with these findings. However, this Memorandum of Cooperation has imperfections which should be examined and improved in the next phase of the extension of its implementation. In particular, there is a significant gap in the cultural goods which date back to the 15th century, given that the younger relics, especially the ecclesiastical ones, are not included in the list drawn up by the US customs office, as the Minister in the committee pointed out. Therefore, these cultural goods are not protected by illegal removal practices or smuggling practices within the territory of the United States. The second issue to which one should focus on the protection of the archaeological treasures that have been illegally transferred to the United States before 2011, when the memorandum of cooperation came into force. It is clear that the vast majority of the archaeological, Byzantine and ecclesiastical treasures that are today outside Greece were stolen in an earlier year of the agreement. It is also necessary to deepen and extend the memorandum and beyond the issue of customs controls and border controls, with emphasis on the prevention of buying in the United States art market. The same objectives also concern the European framework, which regulates the issue at European Union level. The institutional gaps are similar and the results are also lower in expectations and declarations. It is therefore important to extend the validity of the Memorandum of Cooperation with the United States in time. However, if you value the first hundred days of this government as a whole, care for the vindication and protection of our archaeological treasures may be one of the areas in which the worst performance is presented. On the question of demanding the return of sculptors and archaeological members of the Acropolis, the slip was committed at the top level. The Prime Minister raised the issue of indirect recognition of the ownership of sculptures by the British Museum, through the predatory idea of borrowing for the 2021 celebrations. Then again, the Prime Minister rushed to the Thessaloniki International Exhibition to declare that the unique archaeological find, which is truly amazing - if you had visited it, would realize the size of this finding - particularly at the Venizelos station, prevents Thessaloniki's metro and should be removed, with a huge risk, of course, for its protection, but also for the very development of the project. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time, the new government celebrates for skyscrapers in the Greek, considering the protection of archaeological wealth, as well as architectural beauty, secondary variables of economic development. Therefore, although reassurances were heard at the level of declarations yesterday and the rest of the day for the government's commitment to protecting our cultural assets, in fact in those hundred days either it degrades them for the benefit of interests or affects them because of its preoccupation. In this context, we propose that the Minister should implement her commitment to a thorough discussion of all these issues in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, so that we can all take a position and understand the government's intentions regarding the critical fronts, on the one hand, of claiming sculptures and archaeological members of the Acropolis and, on the other, of protecting the unique findings on the Thessaloniki metro at the Venizelos station.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u126	Your Honor, how much longer will you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u127	Give me two more minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u128	You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u129	We hope that the Ministry of Culture will not be associated with the heeds of growth within the government, which the ancient hurdles see as, but also with those who, depending on micro-political calculations, do not hesitate to table ruthless proposals, making it difficult for the great national objective of returning sculptors to the Acropolis. In relation to the extension of the memorandum of cooperation with the United States for the protection of our archaeological treasures, we are positive, but noting that this framework of cooperation should deepen even further. The fight to protect our global cultural heritage concerns us all. And the whole international community should be associated with the objective of returning cultural goods to the natural places. We therefore call on the government to take substantial and, above all, careful initiatives in this direction. To sum up, we are positive in this Memorandum of Cooperation and expect the Government to have a substantial debate with all cultural actors, in an absolutely institutional way and without any surprise on all the major issues relating to the protection of our cultural goods and our archaeological wealth in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u130	Thank you. The President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos, has the floor. Mr President, you have the floor for five minutes. As you have seen, there has also been tolerance for the SYRIZA rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. I don't understand how it is possible to disagree, but be positive in this story. I didn't get it, believe me. I've been listening to you for so long and I've been totally in agreement with you for everything you've been saying. How did you agree with the New Democracy? Because it is my capacity - archaeologist, historian - to say that this issue is a black page on Greek history. All they built is a black page. Why? I'll explain it in a minute. We live in a country where we experience strange situations. I saw with great interest the leading event, attended by Mr Mitsotakis, for Salamis. Here's a terrible contradiction, you know. Ladies and gentlemen, in Salamis we have fought - although few of you are here - our ancestors for the homonymous, homo-ling and homogeneous. Today the New Democracy is in favour of multiculturalism. There's a confrontation of at least ideology or ideology better. I begin with this because for every two antiquities repatriated, ten thousand will never return, Minister. And I don't say that. Professor of Archaeology in Cambridge, Mr. Xeroyannis, says so. You know him, I guess. He is a very good colleague, excellent expert on these matters. I think, therefore, that this agreement has been made very roughly, the convention, as everyone wants, because it is an extension of formality, but it was signed in 2011 with a five-year duration. From 2016 onwards, until today, we have not done anything, that is, three whole years. And this is where SYRIZA has a responsibility. Of course, it says it will apply for the next two years. Then what do we do? Are we going to re-expand? It's not like that, Minister. It is not so, because we must at some point, because we are talking about archaeology, archaeological findings, archaeological café, to make a committee, if you want, to which we will discuss seriously. It's too serious for us to spend it in two hours, very serious. What are we asking for? We are calling for the renegotiation of all agreements, all that has been done so far. We call for bans rather than restrictions on imports of antiquities into the Indians or the United States. How can you talk about confinement? The restriction has a broad interpretation of the term. I mean, they can put what they want, but on restrictive terms. Who puts them, us or them? They're the ones. So they can put on anything ancient they want without asking Greece at all. We also ask for something that has never happened since 1832. What didn't happen? A list of Greek antiquities, Minister. Mr. Lebanon, six of you do this. I want the Minister to hear me. It's important. It's important what I'm saying, because I'm an archaeologist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u132	First, we all want to hear you all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u133	It's okay. That's another matter. But it's inconceivable. And if you were here, you would tell me the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Lebanon, sit down and listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u135	You're right. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u136	Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u137	I don't want to apologize. We're friends anyway. For God's sake! So I say, as a parliament, that we finally make a list of Greek antiquities that are in museums of foreign countries and private collections - there is no such list - so that we can finally see how these findings came about, where they were. Because that's the essence, not me recognizing that the findings in this museum are these, but how they found them. Is it from an archaocaust? Is it from theft? Is it a loot? Is it from a bitch? What are the findings from there at last? How'd they go? Beamed? I'm saying all this because a lot of things didn't go well in the Greek state. Incomplete operation by the Directorate for Documentation of Cultural Goods, which is a competent authority for the archaocapilia. This service never worked seriously. The Archbishop's Department was never united, as it should have been, with the new address, Minister. Never. So, then, the Archaocappeal is in another building and the archaocapilia workers are in another building. There can't be any coordination like that. Archaeologists who were hired had no experience with archaeological cases. And I'm saying that why? I'll take you to the Getti Museum. I imagine you know the Getti Museum in Los Angeles. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the President of the Greek Solution bell hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I need a little more time. It's a very serious matter. At least it is very important for Greece. The Getti Museum, the well-known museum, has recently entered the list of majorly accepted crime products. I mean, they're on the list that they're getting antique candy products and resale them. We have done nothing as a country to find out what our findings are, what are archaocapilia products, whether or not? We didn't. The museum has been connected - and here is the big crime, Minister, I imagine you know - with the case of Schinoussa, which the whole system has covered. They've all covered the Schinousa. If you remember correctly, 2006 has been the biggest archaocaust case in the last 100 years. Involved media were shipowners, politicians, top political actors. The papers were saying so then. For Schinoussa, we didn't hear anything after. Thousands of objects were transferred. In Schinoussa, it became a normal trade. No one was punished. Everybody innocent! So I say to you that archaeological pollen, because it has too much money, archaeological findings cost huge sums, is that these are not given by farmers and pensioners to take them. They are given by the very wealthy, the few, your own people, your closest, the shipowners, who need them to do what I say, their "street". Star, however, with stolen Greek object, with archaeological find, cultural heritage you can't do. Friends and friends, let me tell you that the Getti Museum was persecuted in Italy. He was persecuted too many times, Minister. What did we do from Greece? Did we do something? Have we asked, for example, for the German findings of the nazis who have taken down Greece? There's a whole book of Doxiadis. Look it up and find it at last. It's a list of archaeological findings taken by the Nazis, the Nazis. You dare not make a request. Since 1949 there has been no written request. We're talking about hundreds of finds. I'm not talking about the Archaeological School. You're swinging your head, Minister, but you know that the archaeological schools in Greece, the foreigners, mainly, are acting like a bite of their father's. Just so we know what we're talking about. If you see the legal status of Italy for the archaeological excavations, it has nothing to do with the Greek. Because I went to Italy to an archaeological excavation and saw what the excavation specifications are. They have nothing to do with it. In Greece it takes an archaeological school a space, digs, digs and nobody controls them. Don't tell me we're checking it out, since we don't have any staff. I went to Amphipolis, Minister, and my archaeologist, my colleague, told me that they are six people for the entire Prefecture of Serres. Amphipolis, you didn't run away at all. You have not been serious about it, not just you, but the previous ones too. And you know very well that it's a huge monument. With six employees, conservators, etc., for the entire Serres Prefecture to be excavated? It can't be done. And let me tell you something else, Minister. You want to leave work behind? Find a legal framework so that anyone rich wants to be a sponsor of the excavations. Paying money to be excavated. It takes 5 million euros. I'm telling you in public here, now. If you do me the legal framework, I will find you the 5 million euro sponsorship for the excavation in Amphipolis, to finally see what they're hiding down there or what they're not hiding. Let's see what's hidden. Five million euros are needed. I'll give it to you. Find me a legal way, so there can be sponsorships. Yes, Mrs. Pipili, there's a way. There are still Greeks who from abroad can give money. And I say this frankly with a lot of soul pain, for 5m euros, when today the Navy gives 80m euros - it does not - not for its own needs, to get settlements, homes for poachers. Gives our Navy 80m euros to get homes for Ibrahim, Hassan and Mehmet, and we don't have 5 million to dig. This is our state. Unfortunately, this is our state!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Velopoulou, mercy. Let's not make it completely useless.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u139	Unfortunately, this is our state. Twelve years to be returned. I'm saying it because you're fighting for cultural heritage. For the nice buildings of Athens, I tell you that. They have no money, they're falling apart. You know that very well. I tell you that there is no money when we give you 80m euros - I repeat you - and many tens of millions of euros to feed people who illegally came to Greece. It's their human right. That's all I'm saying. So I say this so that we know. It took twelve years to return four ancient objects in the summer of 2006 from the Geti Museum in Greece, when it has dozens and sells them daily. Every day! I insist. There must be a change in the legal framework and we will find you a way. There is a way to appeal to Greek excavators in America, Germany, to give the money for excavations. Find a way, a legal framework. This is where you make laws for America. That's especially for America. We're helping our American friends. Let's go to Thessaloniki Metro. Madam Minister, just a minute, because we say, we say, but I want to speak with examples. Do you see that, Minister? He's an amphibian. Sold yesterday. Nobody knows. He's Greek! Another finding, as this Cycladic was sold a month ago. They're sold and nobody knows whose it is. It's Greek! Nobody knows anything. And that was sold twenty days ago. See how they sell, the Americans, the Getty Museum and all of our friends! That gold necklace was sold. No one controls why they're selling them. This is the Greek head of Apollo. I don't have the picture. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go to Thessaloniki Metro. Is it possible that you as an archaeologist would want to transfer the findings from the subway and go to a exhibition site while we know that the subway is going all over the world? They pass through there and they see all the objects in screens. The world, the tourist, the Englishman, the Frenchman, the American must see them. Why would he go to the museum when he can see there? And I tell your government. It's a crime with the subway. There's a proposal. ICOMOS has come out of an entire communication that your proposal is - listen to - unacceptable, it is incomplete and is going to affect the basic values of the monumental whole. Listen to them at least, listen to them. Tourists will see them better on the subway than on the subway. Most of them don't go to museums or a lot of them go while others don't. So don't do that. So we delay the subway of Thessaloniki. I want another minute, Mr President, and I'm closing. You know, I am disturbed when I hear ministers paid by the Greek State to constantly invoke international conditions and Europeans. We have ministers who are responsible for solving the problem of immigration and are constantly invoking Europe. Why are we paying them? If I constantly call upon Europe, I do not have to pay the Minister in Greece. Do not pay the new children 5,000 or 6,000 or 7,000 euros to each Minister. If he can't do his job, he can't get out of here. I hear the Prime Minister of the country, who said the incredible. It says that all countries must assume their responsibilities for the refugee. But no one wants to take responsibility, neither the Visegrad countries nor Germany nor France. They're not our solidaritys. They don't want to! What's his name? They don't want to. They think we're a soul storehouse. It's about what we have to do. And for me - I will say it directly - the New Democracy and the rest of the parties, not all of you, are a little out of place and time. But helping because I have saved and well hungered the Greek and helped everyone else. These things can't be done. Chrysochoidis, the Minister, comes out and says: "We want, we do not want, we want to make a decision", Mr Levane. We will live with all Afghans, Pakistanis, Congolese and Algerians, and I do not know what else, 'we do not want'? Is that democracy? Let the Minister, Chrysochoid, the successful, the great of PASOK, who you received a transcript, but instead of a Messie, you came out with pain in the middle, with a lobago? You took him from PASOK. And it says 'we want to, we do not want'. What's that supposed to mean? We don't have a democracy, do we?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u140	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u141	I'm done, I'm closing. We'll do what Japan does, what Australia does, Minister, what America does. If you want not to come here, cut benefits, close non-governmental organisations, take them to places where they don't do well, not to hotels, etc....
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u142	What does this have to do with the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u143	I'm talking now and I'm not having a dialogue with you. You want, you don't want to hear me. Take them to the inhabited islands, perfection and dash.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u144	I ask what that has to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u145	He has, he doesn't, I'm president, and I'm talking about what I want. If you don't know the Rules of Procedure, find out. The party president speaks of whatever issue he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u146	There's logic beyond the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u147	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u148	Your logic is absurd to me. I won't have a dialogue. So let's go to what Japanese, American and other countries do, 'push back'. There's no other way. Be peaceful, without leaving human souls, to drive them away as the Japanese or the Americans or the Australians do. Let me get you a video. That's what happens. Of course, Mr President, because Mrs Pipilis is struggling here, I have five questions for non-governmental organisations, which have never been answered by the Ministry. Never! I'm asking them how much money was given, how much money was given, who took it, and they don't answer. Why? Unfortunately, I fear that many ministers in the New Democracy are involved in this story, because non-governmental organisations are businessmen, well organised by slave traders, by people who do slave trade and trade in souls. This Greek solution will stop it. There won't be a single one without papers. There is no other solution for Greece if there is to be Greece in the next thirty, forty years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theory they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall of 30 students and students and two teachers attending the 3rd Municipal School of Agia Paraskevi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the President may speak among the rapporteurs, but we will not stop now. We will conclude with the rapporteurs and move on to the process. So the next speaker is Mr Constantopoulos from the Change Movement for five minutes. I would like to ask, Mrs Sakova, by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure - it has happened - that the new Republic has also been asked to speak for a few minutes, although it is in favour of the agreement. I would like you to tell me if you agree. I'm just saying this so we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u150	Yes, Mr President, I would like to speak for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u151	You agree, thank you very much. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill concerns the ratification of an agreement to extend the Memorandum of Cooperation between Greece and the United States on the introduction of import restrictions into Greek archaeological and Byzantine, ecclesiastical and ethnic material, of course, until the 15th century. And that's a question. Why up to the 15th century? Ladies and gentlemen, the memorandum of cooperation between the two countries was signed at the Acropolis Museum on 17 July 2011 and ratified by Law 4026/2011. I would remind you that it is the result of the initiative undertaken by the then government of the PASOK of George Papandreou and implemented Article 9 of the UNESCO Treaty to prevent and prevent illegal import and export and transfer of ownership of cultural goods. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the huge problem of smuggling excavators in our country, especially the pillaging of unknown archaeological sites and of course theft, illegal trafficking and trafficking of Greek antiquities in Greece and abroad. Especially in America, the movement of Greek archaeological objects has taken enormous proportions. Parts of our cultural heritage are traded even today by large auction houses. So, ladies and gentlemen, claiming these antiquities by the Greek public is not a simple and easy process, nor, of course, self-evident. It is for this reason that agreements such as the one we have concluded with the United States are of particular importance. And it is important that they have been concluded with other countries, such as Switzerland. The Memorandum of Cooperation and Consensus between Greece and America had as main content the obligation of the US customs to exercise strict control over the introduction of Greek cultural goods into the US territory. And in order to achieve this by the first December 2011, the American Ministries of National Security and Finance added to the federal list forbidden to import cultural goods since 2000 BC. Until the 15th century C.E. and have been included in the framework of the transnational agreement. So in execution of the contract if objects are identified, the US authorities are confiscating them and, of course, they are informing our country so that the procedures and objects can be returned back home again. The agreement has worked so far. Cultural goods located illegally in the United States have been returned to our country. It is important that we already have tangible results. In particular, since the entry into force of the cooperation, the following repatriations have been made: five silver coins seized in New York in 2014, part of a marble sarcophagus seized in 2017, ten silver coins seized in San Francisco and repatriated in June 2019, as the Minister said. The Greek side has also made two claims through the prosecution authorities in 2019 and this is important. First, a gold occasion from the Museum of Komotini was found in a US auction, as well as a gold coin linked to a known archaocapilia case and moved through a auction house in the United States. In both cases, the US authorities have been seized in order not to be open to tender and to expect the process to progress. It is also very important to stress that, in implementation of the Memorandum of Cooperation between Greece and the USA, our country has undertaken to register private collections, churches, archaeological sites and take measures limiting the movement of antiquities. This effort to record and digitise the unrecorded, but also recorded mobile monuments and sites actually contributed, I would say, decisively, two large-scale digitisation projects financed by European resources: firstly, the Archaeological Register and, secondly, the project "Enriching the Digital Monuments of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and the Development of an Information System of the Hellenic Monuments Archive". Ladies and gentlemen, however, this great task of recording Greek cultural goods and sites really stopped after the workers were removed. And this by the previous SYRIZA government, as I mentioned in my position to the committee the other day. We expect you, Minister, to give us a concrete answer, both on the course of these projects and on the future of these workers. I would remind you, however, that this convention agreed that cooperation between the two countries on cultural, educational and scientific objectives was agreed, with the lending of cultural works in museums in America, the licensing of academics and museum curators to photograph works in museums and other sites. In these areas too, Minister, it would be useful to have information from the Ministry of Culture on how cooperation between the two countries is progressing. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Ladies and gentlemen, from what has been said, it is clear that the Memorandum of Cooperation between Greece and the United States, with the aim of combating the archaocaust and the illegal trafficking of our Greek cultural heritage, was a positive agreement for Greece which should apply not only for five years and should be renewed, but for decades to come. Her results seemed quickly, which is why the Ministry of Culture also submitted a request for an extension of five years in 2016. The request was accepted by the US and followed by the exchange of financial communications between the US Embassy and Athens, as well as the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was even agreed, in order that there would be no gap in the protection of the Greek antiquities, that it should enter into force immediately, even on a temporary basis, immediately and definitively after ratification of the agreement in Parliament. However, ladies and gentlemen, in 2016, when the agreement was put forward for discussion, it was the right time that the Ministry of Culture would have to claim even more for our country. He had to ask for the agreement to be extended, as I said, and not for five years ago, but for decades to be extended. He still had to ask for the extension of the period of protection of these cultural goods not until the 15th century, but at least until the Greek state was set up after liberation. He didn't do it. As the previous government did not see to it that the agreement was ratified in Parliament, which is finally being ratified today after three years. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Change Movement is voting positively on the bill. It is absolutely urgent to ratify the extension of the Memorandum of Cooperation. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we have been experiencing the results of Turkey's illegal invasion of Syria in recent days, which we strongly condemn. Human lives are gone. We are already in the face of the creation of a new refugee wave. Turkey violates every concept of international law and it is time for the European Union and the international community to take action against it. Finally, we must stop Turkish aggression. Europe must say a "final" to Turkey's new Turkish expansion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u153	The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u154	The New Democracy Government is currently carrying the extension until 2021 of Greece's Memorandum of Cooperation with the United States of America to impose import restrictions on the United States of certain archaeological and Byzantine materials. Of course, we believe that before we proceed to extending a convention, such as the one we are discussing today, we must first make an assessment of the first five years of its implementation by the other Contracting Party, namely the United States Government. Did they keep the deal? Did they limit imports of archaeological and Byzantine materials? And anyway, how many archaeological objects have been returned to our country all this time, as was their contractual obligation? For the first, according to the rapporteur's report, but also to financial communications between the two countries, there is absolutely no evidence of the restriction on imports of archaeological and Byzantine materials into the United States. For the second time, for the return of antiquities to our country by the United States, the previous statement by the Minister on a return of only fifteen silver coins and a section of the sarcophagus is not particularly flattering for the efficiency of this convention. There are, of course, two Kures stolen in 1990 from the Museum of Ancient Corinth and repatriated in 2010. However, this was before the conclusion of this contract. But that's it. Other refunds don't exist. On the other hand, the statement by the Minister to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that in the United States of America the trade in antiquities and cultural goods is highly developed and with huge economic content shows the scale of the problem. Besides, according to the Minister again, the main objective of the memorandum is to protect cultural goods which are smuggling and illegal exports from Greece to the United States. For the lawful trade nothing. Of course, we say, and the smuggling of antiquities, like the archaocapilia, must be crushed and extinct. Illegal trade in antiquities, however, does not develop next to the legitimate trade in these antiquities? Aren't the large auction houses, but is it not even some museums that both of them finally carry out commercial activities? We are talking about all this in order to be fully aware of the cause of the problem of archaocapilia, of course, because it is not but commercialisation, legal or illegally small, it is important, and indeed extremely expensive commercialisation of the archaeological treasures of all kinds. With the opportunity, of course, to remind you here that in 2011 when the relevant bill, that is, the convention that we are prolonging today, which was later made by Law 4026/2011, was voted against for essentially three reasons that I shall briefly mention. Firstly, the intended restriction of imports of archaeological and Byzantine materials into the United States was based, you know, on a list of the United States itself completely arbitrary. Greece, our country, namely one of the Contracting Parties, did not play a part in this list. There are no specific criteria in this list, beyond the time limits, which in fact not only protect the material within these limits, but also allow and legalise the unlimited introduction of those that were outside these time limits. Second reason was that at the time of the actual deforestation of the services of the Ministry of Culture by archaeologists and archaeologists, the responsible scientists, with the responsibility of the government at the same time, the presence of police forces in these areas was strengthened and, of course, the presence of foreign archaeological missions in Greece was expanded. The third reason, of course, is that, also through the memorandum, which was introduced for the first time in 2011 and is continuing today, it is, of course, supported - in line with the above - the continued commercialisation of our cultural heritage. However, there is today another reason why we must vote against - and we shall of course vote against - the extension of this memorandum. On the basis of what is stated in the rapporteur's report, which calls for the extension of this convention, but also on the basis of the private communications that have been contained in the same text and which have been preceded between the two countries, it is confirmed that this is a heterogeneous, practically colonial memorandum, a colonial memorandum of understanding - a contract which Greece is obliged to demonstrate that it is taking measures against illegal exportation, in other words to safeguard the legitimate trade of anti-smuggling anti-smuggling anti-smuggling and trade, while on the contrary no evidence is submitted at all confirming that the United States has complied with this agreement, i.e. limiting imports of such material or how many objects have returned to Greece since its signature. None of this, since, according to what is stated in the contract, there is nowhere even a line to force the United States to account to Greece for what they have done on these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Delia, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u156	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I close by saying that we are opposed, on the basis of what we have said, to the memorandum and, of course, to its extension and we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Antonis Mylonakis, special speaker of the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am truly sorry and embarrassed. Today you have brought us an agreement on Greek culture, our culture, on our exhibits, for which we are proud. Look over to plenary. For the first time I've been a congressman, that's what I didn't expect. And I think your face is disrespectful. I'm not talking about me, I'm just a congressman. The Greek Solution has said that it will be present in all the bills, in all the amendments. However, this disgrace against the Greek Parliament in plenary is disgraceful. Minister, this agreement signed by the Government in July 2011 and it started to apply since November 2011, which has been talking about a restriction - in some categories - of archaeological material from the Paleolithic Period, that is, since 20000 BC. Until the 15th century - note, and why not until the 18th century? - and Byzantine material - ethological, ecclesiastical - since the 4th century A.D. By the 15th century, it is a lion deal and the Greek Solution will vote against it. Why is this a lion deal? First of all, it ended in 2016. From 2016 until today there is a three-year gap and we do not know what has happened. This deal, what does it say? It says that Greece has certain obligations the US Embassy and the United States Government accepts by extension that it has implemented them. We have seen whether what is provided for in the agreement has been implemented by the United States government? I'll tell you something. Some Greek researchers have called me and have a lot of complaints, Minister, because they do not give the funds necessary for their research - that is the first - while, on the contrary, we help foreign researchers when they want to come to do superficial excavations. We have another issue, which is too big and you have to look at it: lending. If you go to the Metropolitan Museum of New York, because I think that everyone you've been to New York has passed through the Metropolitan Art Museum - it's on the 5th Manhattan Avenue, it's near Central Park - you'll see a whole wing inside. This wing is dedicated to the Greek-Roman exhibits. Do you know how much he's in the number? It's thirty-four thousand. Madam Minister, you know that because you have visited it. But it is nowhere to register all the exhibits that are in the museums of the United States. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. I can only tell you that this museum, which is one of the largest in the world and since 1909 has been hosting Greek exhibits, mainly Greek-Romanian exhibits, accepts the time of six and a half million visitors and I present it in the Minutes to see how much money we can save from these exhibits that are also there with this agreement still with the United States. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonios Mylonakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you know how much the ticket is? I'd been there recently, and it's 25 bucks a person, for the over sixty-five-five-year-olds 17 dollars, for the students 12 dollars. It has six, six and a half million visitors a year only this museum. I'm putting this in the Minutes too to see. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonios Mylonakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm telling you again that we need to look at this. Our country must also take something. He's getting nothing. Only we lend and don't know how long we're lending them. What's coming back from them? The United States wins money. It's Bizna, and that's what business has done. They become lame of Greek culture, a huge civilization, making profits. Of course, all collections should be recorded privately and not, as should church collections, because they are not recorded. The Greek Solution is against this agreement, which needs to be updated and started from the outset. It's a lion deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u159	We shall now give the floor to the rapporteurs of the new Republic and of Mera25, after consultation with the previous President-in-Office at the beginning of the meeting, to take the floor, although you have expressed a positive view on this convention in committee, and then the Minister and two parliamentary representatives who have said that they wished to speak. I would ask you to be very brief in time, because there are issues with the services too. We have a Conference of Presidents, we have committees, we have to finish as quickly as possible. You want to start with New Democracy? Mr Anastasios Bartzokas, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u160	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by saying that I am very honoured that today's report, as a representative of the government majority, concerns the preservation of our cultural heritage, a heritage which concerns all of us and which we all have to preserve as the daughter of an eye. I'm from Imathia. Imathia is a place that can be distinguished for its archaeological wealth. Aeges, Miza, the Aristotle School is just some of the monuments of Greek culture that make Imathia one of the most important archaeological sites in Europe and the world. Also, these spaces, like many others in Greece, are a pole of attraction for thousands of visitors annually. Today's vote on the extension of the memorandum between the Greek Government and the Government of the United States of America is a very important matter not only for the real results which have undeniably demonstrated - they have been mentioned in detail in the Committee on Morphic Affairs - that is to say the resumption of archaeological material and the outstanding claims that will soon be made, but above all because it shows a clear message that, in the field of safeguarding cultural heritage and the obligation to transfer it to the next generations, there must be a common global will and concern, that this is not a purely national issue, that the orientation of protection must be focused on repressive measures, not exclusively, but on the preventive framework. The logic of retrospective treatment is not enough. That is why such contracts in the field of culture are quite frequent in modern politics. They reflect the indirect assumption that sovereign states at the time of globalisation and social transformation choose the cooperation strategy. In addition, they draw attention to an issue of the utmost importance in the illicit trafficking of cultural material. The effective protection of cultural heritage therefore requires a holistic approach, that is to say, an integrated framework of legislation and, at the same time, the development of a coherent mechanism that implements the legislation. Coming now to the formal part of today's sitting, the draft law submitted was submitted to Parliament on 3 October of this year. It concerns, as mentioned above, the extension of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the two countries, which gained formal effect under Law 4026/2011 signed on 17 November of the same year. The Convention follows from the 1970 UNESCO Convention, and in particular Article 9 thereof, on measures taken to prohibit and prevent the illegal importation, export and transfer of the ownership of cultural goods, to which they are both parties. The overall four articles of Law 4026 conducive to mutual reassurances regarding the actions to be taken by the two countries in order to achieve the purpose for which this Convention was signed. For example, I mention the creation of a federal list of prohibited cultural goods, the obligation of the customs authorities of the United States of America to return the confiscated cultural goods included in the list of designations, the mutual obligation to make the Memorandum of Cooperation public, the strengthening of the Greek police authorities to control on metal detectors, the strengthening of the internal legislative framework, and the review of the legal framework for borrowing and exchanging antiquities. In the latter Article, Article 4 expressly provides for the duration of its validity, which is initially referred to in five years with the possibility of an extension for an additional five years, provided that the prerequisites for internal procedures are completed. Indeed, the Ministry of Culture and Sport has responded with sufficient capacity to fulfil the requirements of the Memorandum, as is apparent from the periodic evaluation reports. In fact, in this context, the Ministry of Culture has taken and successfully implemented several initiatives. For example: The recording and digitisation of the unrecorded and recorded mobile monuments has made considerable progress, legislation has been tightened, and several agreements have been concluded at bilateral or tripartite level with the countries of the Mediterranean. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] According to the above, the co-legislative ministries, the Ministry of Culture and Sport, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, have taken all the necessary steps to lodge a request for the time extension for the next five years. The request was assessed in principle positive and through the financial communications between the Contracting Parties has been extended...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Comrade, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u162	I shall conclude, Mr President. Its validity has been extended since 21 November 2016 in order to prevent the gap in its application until its ratification. The urgency of this sanction is one of the constitutional requirements laid down in Article 28, on the one hand, and the effectiveness of this memorandum of cooperation has so far been demonstrated. Already since its implementation, repatriations have been promoted by most illegally displaced cultural goods, pending the implementation of two claims by the prosecution authorities for 2019. The fact also of systematic submission by the competent US authorities of requests for verification of the origin and possible illicit trafficking of cultural goods confirms the Host State's response to the provisions of the Agreement. The ratification of the contract for the extension of cooperation therefore forms part of a wider assertive effort by the Hellenic Republic to regain cultural goods and, in the final analysis, to safeguard their collective memory. It should also be seen as an attempt to intensify the strategic dialogue on culture, which our country is systematically cultivating with the United States of America. It highlights the need for the organisation of the cultural environment at international level. For these reasons, its vote by the Greek Parliament has a significant symbolic burden. Apart from allowing further strengthening of the relations between the two countries in the field of cultural diplomacy, the vote will confirm that safeguarding our fundamental cultural identity is a matter for the single and agitative attitude we have and we must have as a state in the field of cultural strategy. At this point, let me look particularly at...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Comrade, please. You've already exceeded all seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u164	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u165	When will you be finished? Already as a party, as a parliamentary group, as well as the Group of the European People's Party, 25, under the Rules of Procedure, you were not entitled to intervene. Of course, this concession was made by the Bureau, we gave five minutes and addressed to this House I asked it to be consistent in time for practical and objective reasons of services, committees and so on. So please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u166	I shall conclude, Mr President. Just beyond all the other things that have been pointed out, which are important and we should not overlook them, I should like to point out that we should not underestimate the educational dimension of this agreement. The legislator concerned shall, in the exercise of his legislative powers, or at least shall seek to capture in the legislature the ideal state in terms of platonics. In other words, every piece of legislation shows how our society perceives the ideally favoured state. In this light, this agreement is extremely pedagogical, as it seeks to shape a contemporary cultural culture, a culture that at its core also has the meaning of personal responsibility, and that succeeds, as the Minister has mentioned, many cases of returning cultural goods from the United States of America voluntarily are recorded. So we are obviously voting in favour of the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u167	Mrs Sakorafa, the Vice-President of the Parliament and special speaker of Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. For order, I would like to say that we have not violated the Rules of Procedure. We just agreed to talk after he had already been violated. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case we are discussing an extension of an international convention already in force between Greece and the United States on control and import restrictions in antiquities. In particular, it relates to archaeological categories from the upper Paleolithic period up to the 15th century C.E. and Byzantine ecclesiastical material up to the 15th century. The respective obligation of our country arises from the 1970 UNESCO International Convention of 1970, which Greece has ratified by Law No.1103/1980 on the measures to be taken to prohibit and prevent the illegal importation, export and transfer of the ownership of cultural goods in which both countries are parties. In this context, and because in the United States trade of antiquities is developed, the Greek Government sought and signed this Memorandum of Cooperation aimed at protecting cultural goods which are smuggling and illegal export from Greece to the United States. Protection is achieved by imposing restrictions on the importation of cultural goods of Greek origin into the United States by the US customs authorities. The aim of this is to prevent the pillaging of unknown archaeological sites in Greece and the illicit trafficking and trafficking of Greek antiquities in the US territory. This international agreement is the Memorandum of Cooperation between Greece and the United States of America ratified by Law 4026 of 2011. The Greek state has requested the extension and extension of the contract from February 5, 2016 for five more years. Its retroactive effect is projected from 21 November 2016. With this bill, therefore, the continuation of the bilateral protection of Greek archaeological goods up to the 15th century is hereby ratified. It is clear, Mr President, that there is no good reason to object to this draft law and our vote will be positive. However, on the occasion of this debate - and I shall end quickly - we must point out because of the particular nature of our country and our heritage that we must, with all our forces as a state and as a society, step up our efforts in relation to the protection, promotion and even the recovery of Greek archaeological treasures. That is an explicit constitutional requirement. Our priority should be to protect the archaeological data on the territory of the territory of the territory, which seems to be no longer given in particular when major economic interests are dealt with. The examples are, unfortunately, a lot. We must also give particular weight to the recovery of antiquities. A serious issue, not only concerning the Parthenon Marmaras, but also a number of archaeological objects that appear to belong to foreign public cultural institutions or roam around the world, although they are archaeological products but also simple theft. Madam Minister, you are an expert on these matters. I would therefore ask you to open up a debate on the protection, manner and recovery of our cultural goods. I would also suggest to you, Minister, because there is a problem with our children who do not know our history, that there should be cooperation with the Ministry of Education, so that our children can learn at some point what Parthenon means, what Ancient Olympia, what acropolis means. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mrs Sakorafa for the consistency in time. With Mrs Sakorafa, the circle of interventions by the rapporteurs and the special speakers has been completed. Four parliamentary representatives have declared their desire to intervene. Let's start with the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Lebanese. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Villardos will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. First of all, as far as the bill is concerned, it is very important that all Parliament's wings, apart from the JRC, agree to this ratification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u171	The Greek solution does not agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u172	We don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u173	You don't agree, do you? I thought after what Mr Velopoulos said he agreed. I'm sorry about that. This minority resolution leads to the next conclusion on which I mainly asked for the floor. In closing the first thought, what is being done with ratification is that we are looking at how to deal with it and how to prevent it and that is the right thing to do. The criticism of the Ministry's leadership in relation to the allocation of resources, I think, is really unstable. This leadership, I think, has a very great deal of experience in this area, among other things, to prioritise the needs and to incorporate effectively our archaeological treasures into the everyday life of Greek citizens and the modern economy. And that is a comprehensive answer for what was heard before. We will not get tired of saying that we have a clear position on the issue of the government's position on refugee and immigration. We have a European problem. We'll deal with it in cooperation with our allies. Our position is neither loose nor hard. Our position is the right one. There's the humanitarian part, there's the part of the international rules. I just wanted to point out and protect you, saying that for all those who built careers on the patriots and on these very sensitive issues relating to all Greeks and without labels, their percentages could have been up on time to the public but then broken. So it is good to be careful and not to try to build on sand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr. Lebanese. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. In a few hours' time the European Council begins in Brussels, while the illegal and in violation of all international military invasion of Turkey's international law into northern Syria and the ongoing violations and illegal activities of the Republic of Cyprus' EEZ are under way. At the European Council held last June, the then Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, together with President Anastasiades, gave a diplomatic battle and succeeded in ensuring that specific sanctions could be triggered in Turkey. Unfortunately, in the three months that we have seen the inertia of Greek diplomacy and the new government, a concept of more diplomatic public and interpersonal relations. I believe that this is a very serious situation both for our region and for our national issues. The Foreign Ministers meeting in the Council of Ministers finally seemed to the Greek Government to take some steps to enable these sanctions. We want to highlight the seriousness of the situation. We expect the Greek Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, today at the European Union Council to call for these sanctions to be activated, as regards the violations of the Cypriot EEZ, and for the necessary consensus to be created with the other European leaders - Europe must also stand firm at last - so that there can be clear measures and condemnation of the Turkish invasion in Syria. There is a decision to ban the sale of arms to Turkey, which has been raised by some European governments, and we hope that the Greek Government will also support it. As far as today's draft law is concerned, as our rapporteur has already said, we support and vote for ratification. The Minister, in committee, said and noted that there would be specific monitoring of implementation. That's a good thing. We believe, Minister, that there should be, as you have said, an extension to the future. This, too, has been noted. But on this occasion, I would like to make two comments: first of all, it would perhaps be good in the immediate future if you could come to the Committee on Education's Committee on Culture to present us with an integrated approach to the policy you intend to pursue as a Ministry on the critical issues of culture as a whole. That is something all parties would appreciate. It has started and we will have in plenary next week, Mr President, the draft law on development and investment. I would like to take this opportunity to point out and conclude that, Minister, when we talk about sustainable and fair development, this means that it is indiscriminately linked to a strategy that our country must have, and especially our country which is investing fully in the environment, our culture and our cultural heritage, with the part of the social dimension of our culture, climate and our historical and cultural heritage. Unfortunately, this is not guaranteed. We will, of course, have the opportunity to talk about it in plenary next week. But I think, Minister, that you too, as the Ministry of Culture, should have a much more active participation in all of this, starting with the case of the metro of Thessaloniki, where a process of moving Byzantine antiquities, which verify the historical and cultural continuity of Thessaloniki, but also the whole of Greek Macedonia, cannot be jeopardised, because you too as an interactive archaeologist, know that such a move will simply reveal more ancient findings that exist underneath. There is a technical solution and the investor in previous years had not reacted. There is, moreover, the corresponding example of Athens metro. We believe that this is a crucial issue that needs to be resolved and we expect you to take concrete action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u176	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, our rapporteur, Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos, was also expressed in committee and in plenary in the most appropriate way. We, obviously, are voting in favour of this agreement. With your permission I would like to make two - three more general references. My first point is addressed to the Minister and concerns a very specific issue. I avoid making parliamentary control, but since you are here today, please look very carefully at this. I have the fate and happiness of participating in the authentic Marathon of Athens. On November 10, this very great sporting and cultural event is being reorganised by the SEGAS for another year, involving really thousands of people, at least half of whom are foreign. It is a disgrace on the part of culture and economic development - we are at crossroads, here I agree with what you said - for an athlete who goes there, whatever age, to see what we are showing him as a Marathon. I don't know which one of you, ladies and gentlemen, has gone to Tymbus, where it's a geographical location, one point, nothing else, there's a statue you don't recognize who it is. Not even a sign for decades has governments made sure to put it. It is a disgrace, the most important art work that is there, to be an offer of a company - rather Japanese - and to be "art". Nothing to do with the Marathon has to do with sport. Please, very much, in the few days left, try to show the thousands that will come there. Something to try to show! You have the possibility within a few days of something seeing thousands of people going there. Not only is it shameful what I'm stressing, but also a picture of this country. A real picture of this country, flooding with cultural treasures, which it despises itself. But here, it's a fact that forces you, no matter how indifferent you are, no matter how trouble and delayed, to see and face it. I invite you, do it, and because I will be involved - first God - I will see if you are kind enough to react in the next few days. I also agree with Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos. We have heard the Ministry of Culture, Mr President, telling us some basic things in the government's programme statements. Since then, we have seen the Minister move on some very serious issues, but the image that the Ministry has had after three months of what it can do over the next three years, we do not have it. So you need to find an opportunity, on your own initiative, to make an update of the Greek Parliament, in the way you choose, around the four-year strategy that you have shaped with the experience of the three months. However, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, to be honest, we turn a little back by making this observation - which you have rightly made and linked them to the development law - and put the Thessaloniki metro as an example, that is, in general, the transport of northern Greece and Thessaloniki, you are slipping into an issue that is not so suited to you. Because this city with its reports learned to obtain the fast rail with cars coming from Italy and leaving after they were taken, we learned it from the mushrooms and from the adventure of transporting antiquities. Either one sees it in a way that proves to be the metro or sees it in a way that proves that it does not want to be the metro, but wants to speculate politically, creating conflicts that are neither opportune nor serious. In conclusion, there is a great need today for the Prime Minister at the summit to put the migration - refugee under two specific aspects of it, which are very important for both Europe and Greece. The first aspect is finally the implementation of a 2018 summit decision, in all the countries bordering Europe and which are of a character - I say it freely - a border, a hot spots and a check on whether a person is an immigrant or a refugee, that the asylum procedure is there. This decision was taken, we applauded it and it was never implemented. Secondly, to see the country - with particular insistence - the need for the European Union to revise the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey. We do not have good results that benefit both the country and Europe. Europe as a whole must decide to revise this joint declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u178	The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. We in the Greek Solution think that we should look carefully at any convention that comes to the vote in the House, even if it seems to have no special interest, such as today. In the initial 2011 contract I will table in the Minutes together with all the rest - so that I do not now consume the time - there are various Greek obligations. In the present case, the following questions arise: Firstly, what does the identification list include? What exactly are the protected relics? Secondly, why does it cover until the 15th century? Does it really have anything to do with the Istanbul Salvation? Thirdly, why is the newest Hellenism and at least the ecclesiastical heritage not covered? Don't you think it's a collector of value? Fourthly, what happens with thefts of such materials, such as the following: (a) Theft of relics from Yannina in 2016, dated 1725 and recorded by the Archaeological Service. I'll submit it to the Minutes. b) Theft of images of the 19th century from the church of a village of Konitsa. I'll also testify to it in the Minutes. c) Theft of images considered to be donations from the Botsari family, perhaps during the pre-revolution period. Fifth, has the historical material been recorded in churches? Sixth, what about the ancient antiquities possibly in international waters, with antiquities found in Turkey or other countries? Seven, what about historical material that some may appear as Macedonian after 1500 C.E.Huh? Eighth: If an object is found in another country how can we know when it escaped from Greece or if it was found in Greece? In addition to these questions, we have found that there are similar United States conventions with other countries, but that cover different periods, such as: First, with Bulgaria until 1750 C.E., noting that Bulgaria was from the 14th to the 19th century under Ottoman occupation. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Why until 1750 with Bulgaria, while only until the 15th century with Greece? The Byzantine monuments in Bulgaria by whom are they covered? Secondly, with Cyprus, which does not mention chronology, but proclassical and classical antiquities, Byzantine and post-Byzantine church and ritual material. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Thirdly, with Italy, the proclassical, classical and Imperial Roman period. I'll also put it in the Minutes. There are similar contracts with twenty-two countries in total. But they're all different. In relation to the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, it says that there will be charges for archaeological investigations and for policing, which should, anyway, be a basic obligation for each country. In this regard, however, the following questions should be answered: First, what is the cost of policing? We should at least know the cost to date. Secondly, what is the cost of archaeological research and what will it cover? Thirdly, there is a loss of revenue from image reproduction fees. Does it have anything to do with the websites that will be created in America? What's the cost? Fourthly, is there a service that monitors the use of these images? Fifth, is there any revenue or fines from a similar use to date? In conclusion, we will vote against the convention, hoping that you will achieve something more rational. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u180	Thank you. Mr Mendoni, Minister for Culture and Sports, has the floor to complete the process and move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, before we enter into a concrete ratification of the agreement, I should like to say two - three general principles and I would be happy to respond to the individual issues that have been raised. First of all, let me remind you, since we are talking about ratification of an agreement on illegal activities, that some time before the July elections, by voting on the Criminal Codes from the previous government, penalties for archaics have been considerably reduced. So this government, which we have heard various things about, the first thing it has done and without waiting for the overall revision of the codes, precisely because it has the sensitivities it has, is this: the first law that brought the sentences back to the very stricter requirements laid down by Law 3028/2002. I would remind you that the Qualified Opposition has not said anything about it. We were relieved of penalties and sentences reintroduced with the first bills of this government. Secondly, I would have absolutely no objection at all to you at any time to the fact that we need to discuss anything about culture policy and the Ministry of Culture in the Committee on Culture. You should know that I will respond with absolute joy and priority. Thirdly, let me inform you of something you don't know. For the first time in cooperation with the Ministries of Justice and Citizens' Protection, we are energising an Interministerial Committee set up by Law3658 which concerns exactly the issues of archaocaust and how the Ministries can coordinate better. Fourthly, as we have already said in the government's programme statements, our immediate priority is the revision of the institutional framework for the operation of the Directorate for Documentation and the Protection of Cultural Goods, given that the most internationally successful model has been the one that has been implemented in Italy in recent years. So over the hundred days the necessary contacts have been made with the Italian side and within the time will be going a step of experts from the Ministry of Culture in Rome, in order to draw know-how, because already in 2008 that framework has been created, in the decades it has taken, technology has been leaping. If, then, we want to be right on protection issues, we can no longer just live in human resources. We must also adapt to the technology that actually helps such illegal activities. Finally, let me just remind you that, in the period 2000-2014, the Ministry of Culture, in particular the archaeological services, carried out a thousand four hundred nine projects, a budget of EUR 2.5 billion from European resources - I live in this, because I have this recently in mind - in protection, conservation and promotion of archaeological resources. For the data available over time in the long history of the modern Greek state, this amount is unprecedented. So let's go to the issues of this agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, the effective protection of the country's cultural heritage presupposes integrated treatment from the regulatory basis, namely the adoption of appropriate rules of law at national and supranational level to practical implementation, namely preventive protection, effective repression and international cooperation. In accordance with the Constitution, an increased level of protection of the cultural environment is guaranteed and the Constitution itself raises protection to the State, to everyone's right, while giving a very great potential, assuming that protection is directly linked to the basic principles of sustainable development. The constitutional legislature is bound by all three powers. This means that the joint legislator must adopt all necessary measures to protect the cultural environment and that the administration, in turn, must take appropriate protective measures. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, it is impossible to answer all the questions that need to be put to the vote in five minutes. So I'm going to make a little misuse of your patience. We all know what it means to protect cultural heritage, and we can see it by looking at Law 3028/2002 and it makes no sense to repeat it again. Like also the responsibilities of the Directorate for Documentation and the Protection of Cultural Goods, we know them from Law 3658/2008, so let us not repeat them either. But the internationalisation of the archaocaust and illegal trafficking in cultural goods makes it necessary to organise protection of the political environment at international level. In this context, the 1970 UNESCO Convention, which Greece has ratified in 1980, is a predominant position among the international conventions concerned. According to Article 9 of that Convention, any Member State whose cultural heritage is at risk because of archaeological or ethnic barriers may appeal to other Member States to take protective measures. In this context, and because in the United States trade of antiquities is developed, the Ministry of Culture started in 2002 preparing the request to the competent authorities of the United States. In order not to repeat ourselves, the Greek Government signed the memorandum in 2011, the memorandum entered into force in November 2011 for five years. The main objective of the memorandum is to protect cultural goods, which are products of smuggling and illegal export from Greece, to the United States. Such protection is achieved by imposing restrictions on the importation of cultural goods of Greek origin into the United States by the US customs and other authorities. This is how it seeks to prevent the looting of unknown archaeological sites in Greece and thus the illicit trafficking and trafficking of Greek antiquities in the US territory. As much has been heard about the list and the length of time covered by the agreement, I would inform you that the issue of drawing up a list of prohibited cultural goods was raised after a long and painful negotiation of both sides, particularly on the Greek side, and that the object of the objects to be made to it could be identified as Greek works of art and, on the other hand, not belong to the categories that already exist since antiquity were trade products, which are very close to territories outside the current Greek territory, namely Italy, Turkey and the wider Mediterranean area. Greece's special success - and this must not be overlooked - was the inclusion in 2011 and now in this list of currencies, as the currency is directly integrated into trade and is therefore a cultural asset that was already circulating in antiquity. It is indicative that in public consultation in the United States during the renewal period, the vast majority, 88% over a total of two hundred comments, were negative on renewal and called for the restrictions on currencies to be lifted. It is therefore very important that the currencies are included in the renewal. The second point concerns the scope of the memorandum. The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media has already been placed in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, and today the 15th-century time limit. This is a good point. It must of course be enlarged. We want protection to extend until 1830 and in any case until 1800. However, the regulatory content of the memorandum was crystallised in 2016. The previous government, the SYRIZA government, was responsible for extending the time limit. At international level, these things do not change after the exchange of financial communications. What we can say is that in the process that we have been starting since now for the renewal of the coming period, the question of the enlargement of time limits is obviously becoming an absolute priority. So you'll judge us whether we succeed in 1800 or not after a few years. It is impossible to change unilaterally after the final text of the Agreement has been formulated. It has been said by previous Members that there have been repatriations. The rapporteur has said so, too. I won't go into the process to repeat them, so we won't take any more time. What I would like to point out is that the Ministry of Culture is too often pressurised and particularly pushing the judicial authorities on matters in order to make and bring about national claims on repatriation. But the Ministry of Culture has no responsibility for any delays in justice. The Schinoussa case - because it has been mentioned - concerns delays in the judiciary. The case has been tried to degree, and from there on there there is a loose end. The Ministry of Culture in the Shinoussa case has exhausted the formal limits of the procedures laid down in the institutional framework, both Greek and international, if one considers how persistently and diligently, since 2006 - and I stress it - to date, is pressing for the famous collection of Sims - Michaelides, in order to return what can be returned to unreserved cooperation with the Italian state, which also have respective interests and obviously want the return of their goods. To go a little back on the subject of the memorandum, I would like to say that the competent American authorities are regularly requesting the relevant Directorate of the Ministry of Culture, namely the Directorate of Documentation. One can see that the demands and assistance requested by the US authorities are being strengthened and increased. That means that the process is going ahead right. However, what is of particular interest, and that is the greatest importance of this type of contract and this memorandum, is general prevention. The imposition of import restrictions on archaeological categories in the United States primarily reinforces the prevention and deterrent of illicit trafficking. Because those who know what is happening now in the US customs are prevented ab initio from attempting to import illegally acquired archaeological material. It is also a firm and unsatisfactory practice that, in any case, we are looking for all the necessary elements to document his or her illegal movement and then for his or her immediate submission of applications for repatriation, under national law and international law, without being limited by the period of application of the memorandum. This memorandum is a reinforcement. It does not mean that we cannot claim beforehand cultural goods. However, what they require, and the Greek law and especially the international conventions, is that there is sufficient evidence to document where it was found, where it was recorded, the registration number, the statement of theft. It is not just these things and those who are systematically involved must know that. Unfortunately, we know that most of the ancient auctioned products are smuggled and even smuggled products several decades ago. If you see the international data, published in scientific literature, you will see that objects usually appear on the market after fifteen or twenty years of the day they were stolen. If you want, we can have a very long conversation because this thing is happening. And for many things that have been heard, we must say that what is related to archaeophilia is not about things that are moving outside the Greek area. For example, I heard that the Tenes Kurds in 2010 were returned, were not returned, because the Kurds never came out. The Couries of Tenea were a smuggling product, which the coordinated actions at the time of the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Culture prevented their sale and export. And we have many examples of these that have happened. We have, for example, the golden masks from Halkidiki, which again became coordinated efforts by the two ministries in 2011 and 2012. We have the bronze Alexander in 2009-2010, which again coordinated operations prevented their export. It is a long list. I'd be happy to let you know. But I think I'll take you too much time. Let's go back to the Memorandum. The Memorandum therefore provides an additional legal basis and certainly strengthens legal certainty in relation to our relationship with the United States. However, it does not in any way restrict de jure or de facto in our pleading effort. Proof of this is the repatriations, which are many since 2011, and which relate to cultural goods that were unlawfully moved to the United States prior to the implementation of the memorandum, while corresponding claims are in progress, both for objects moved during the application of the memorandum and for objects moved before them. In addition to the other provisions, the Memorandum provides for a package of measures which contribute to the protection of the Greek cultural heritage in line with the finalology of the relevant constitutional and internal provisions that we mentioned earlier. Greece is planning to do things that it must of course do: it must seek to strengthen the control and protection of sites of cultural heritage, including the improvement of regulations, such as the use of metal detectors. It must continue to seek to record the collections and record their churches and collections. These things are happening, but, if we make a volumetric approach to what Greek museums and warehouses contain, we are talking about a number of millions of mobile objects, which in front of them have a double digit number. This means that time, money and systematic effort are needed. I assure you, and it would be disgraceful for the services of the Ministry of Culture, not for the political leaders, but for the services of the Ministry of Culture, which operate with great dedication, to say that nothing happens, that there is nothing. Putting it all in bulk and mixing it up, zeroing a collective effort, if anything else is devalued for the operators themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u182	Madam Minister, how long will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u183	I need five more minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u184	If you can narrow it down, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u185	I would be happy to limit them, Mr President, but I will not respond to the individual points which have been addressed, but we can do so in a Committee on Forums, so that there are no further delays. What I would like to say is that in the past and now, while we are in the process of ratification, the American side organised - and yesterday I learned that it intends, in cooperation with the Greek Ministry of Culture, to continue - a series of workshops, the so-called workshops, in which the Homeland Security Investment and officials of the Greek administrative authorities and the Ministry of Culture participate. Let us not overlook this because, if the agreements really want to work, there must be a sense of stimulus between the procedures of the countries and the services. What I would like to point out, because this has also been said, is that the memorandum should have been renewed in 2016 and it took three years. I would like to reassure you that, despite the fact that the memorandum should have been ratified in 2016, there was no gap on the substance of the protection. Because the services of the Ministries of Culture and Foreign Affairs, based on the private communications, have consolidated the medium-term. Our point is that very quickly, since we have been dominating the five years, we have to go to the next negotiation. So nothing's gone. In conclusion, I believe that ratification of this agreement is a necessary task for Parliament, in the context of respect for and implementation of the country's international obligations. It is an opportunity to forge, through and through this parliamentary procedure, what I think in the end we all want, but perhaps other reasons are forcing us to disagree: an irreversible national attitude to safeguard the cultural heritage of illegal activities, from the international archaeological circuits, which, whether we like or do not like, remain strong and concern all the countries that have ancient civilizations. The fact that the overwhelming majority of the Greek Parliament today agrees with the ratification of this memorandum, if anything, indicates that we are in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Minister. This is a further debate on the principle and articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the exchange of financial communications of an agreement extending the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on the imposition of import restrictions on categories of archaeological and Byzantine ecclesiastical material up to the 15th century C.E. of the Hellenic Republic’. We move on to vote on the principle of the law, the articles and the whole of them, and they will be voted on separately. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you have to make sure that you have voted for all the articles, as well as the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u187	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u188	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u189	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the exchange of financial communications of an agreement on the extension of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on the imposition of introductory restrictions on categories of archaeological and Byzantine ecclesiastical material up to the 15th century C.E. the Hellenic Republic’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole, which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u191	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-17-S1-commons.u192	With the consent of the House at 13.25 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, February 18, 2019, at 10.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
