ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins! [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 18 April 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Georgios Vlachos with reference to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport with regard to: 'Building a specific plan and timetable to address the problems of the eastern Attica affected by the fire of 23 and 24 July'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 492/16-4-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association Mr Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: 'Supporting the institution of collective agreements'. 3. The Question No 489/16-4-2019 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Damage due to quarantine in the Municipality of Tirnavos". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 490/16-4-2019 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Problems of Workers at the Centre for the Welfare of Central Macedonia". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 491/16-4-2019 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Dangerous working conditions of the working distributors". 3. The Question No 477/8-4-2019 by the New Democracy MP Mr. Yoyaka to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject of the extension of programmes of a public nature. 4. The 280/17-1-2019 topical question by MEP I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "The administration of the Aegean is being promoted by the government." 5. The 330/4-2-2019 topical question by Independent MEP, Evia Nikolaos Michou, Minister for Foreign Affairs, on "Continuance of persecution of members of the Greek minority in Albania". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION A. Debate on the report of the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on German debts, in accordance with Rule 45(2) of the Rules of Procedure. B. A decision by the Greek Parliament on the proposal by the President of Parliament 'to claim German debts', in accordance with Rule 51(4) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. So today we have a very serious issue in this House. The debate will take place on a similar basis under Rule 137(2) of the Rules of Procedure, namely the procedure for the generalised question. In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that the meeting begin with a circle of seven key speakers, one of each parliamentary group and one of the Independent Members, who will be given the floor for fifteen minutes, without the right of second-guession and from the members of the committee present. I then propose that we enter the speakers' speeches on the single list in accordance with Rule 65(5) of the Rules of Procedure, which will be composed of two circles of speakers, in proportion to the power of the parliamentary groups and of the Independent Members. Each cycle will be made up of thirteen MPs, involving five MPs from SYRIZA, three from New Democracy, one from the next four parliamentary groups and one from the Independent Members. The speakers and speakers in the single catalogue will be given the floor for seven minutes, without the right of second reading. Parliamentary Groups and Independent Members have recommended speakers and speakers for both circles. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will be as set out in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, the duration of the speech of the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras and the Chief of Officerial Response and Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group is up to twenty minutes, the remaining Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups are up to fifteen minutes, while the Ministers will speak for eighteen minutes each. The Vice-Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will speak for up to 12 minutes. If, however, the President of the Parliamentary Group has spoken before him, his alternate will be confined to six minutes in accordance with Rule 167(2) and 97(7) of the Rules of Procedure. More specific positions and thoughts which the parliamentary groups have on the proposal of the President of Parliament will be put forward by the speakers in the context of the debate on the report by the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee which will precede the decision. I propose the debate on the report on German debts to be completed at 9 a.m. At the end of the special agenda for the first part, on the debate on the report of the Intergroup on German debts, pursuant to Rule 45(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we shall enter the second part on the decision on the proposal of the President of Parliament, following a decision of the Conference of Presidents in accordance with Rule 51(4) of the Rules of Procedure with a vote on the motion for a resolution. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. To begin with, I would like to say that today we are honoured with their presence - they are on the left benches and on the left theory - the members of the Council for claiming damages, representatives of the martyr cities, representatives of the Victims' Association of German Occupants, our former MPs, representative of the Central Israeli Council, the Ambassador and the secretary of our Embassy in the Federal Republic of Germany and representatives of the National Resistance. I don't mention the names one - one, because they're not all coming yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u3	Madam President, are speeches by other Members other than this list?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u4	There's nothing else on the table. What I mentioned is true. The speech is made by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Triantafylos Mitafidis. Mr. Mitafidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u5	The protocol of history, if that is the case, symbolically and essentially requires me to welcome the presence in today's historical debate of the protagonists of claiming German debts, the National Board of Appeal of German Debts, on the initiative of Manolis Glezou, which I hope we will have him in the course of our work. I would also like to welcome the presence of the associations of victims of the occupation period and the competitors, heirs of the racing traditions of the National Resistance, the members of the board of directors of the Association of Political Detainees of the dictatorship. Ladies and gentlemen, on 9 May, seventy-four years will be completed by the anti-fascist victory and the end of World War II, which was marked indelibly by the triple occupation of our country by Axis Forces and the payment of a huge blood tax. Our country has the first place among the nations that have been bewildered by the war. The proportion of the victims of the total population we had in 1939, which was seven million thirty-five thousand, is 19.70%. This figure corresponds to five hundred and fifty - eight thousand deceased and eighty - eighty - thousand disabled, a total of about five hundred thousand victims. Our country was treated in the context of the Nazi totalitarian war, not as the 'Vermachi station', but as the 'South reich bulwark', according to a German report. Thus, the Greek territory was transformed into a battlefield in which the tactics of the "burned earth" were applied against the civilian population, in the face of the development of a grand movement of armed resistance by the "discipliner and immortal" by the conquerors of the Greek people. Germany has been defeated by a state, divided, reunited and is currently running the dance in the European Union. However, despite the post-war agreements which defined it as the universal successor to the third Reich, its historic debt to our country remains "unpaid". With today's debate on the report by the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on German debts to Greece, we are fulfilling a fundamental, historic, moral, political and legal debt. At the same time, we give Germany the opportunity to fight against the weapons of truth, reconciliation and responsibility with the miserable voices of Hitler's ancestors. We are on the same front as the German anti-insuranceists, democrats, academics, scientists and activists, such as the 'Amburg-Distomo' or the 'Respect for Greece' club - I will present in the Minutes and the founding declaration - which in all these years, with public actions and cooperation, have given a decisive struggle along with the National Council for the vindication of German debts, of course, with a view to the vindication of our people. According to the answer from 6-2-2014 of the Scientific Committee of the German Federal Parliament to a parliamentary question from the German Left Party, “Die Linke” - I will submit the relevant documents - there is no official final resignation by the Greek Government of the country's claim for corrections. That, if you like, was the boulevard of our committee. A black page by the junta government, which on November 15, 1967 voted against the UN resolution that crimes against humanity are not being recorded. The "Minister of Justice" of the junta Konstantinos Kalabokias was also in favour of the limitation. I'll submit the relevant document. We must not forget that the Greek people, without reasonable reinsurance and collective responsibility, showed their magnanimity over defeated Germany by putting their signature on the London Treaty of 1953 on German foreign debts, which put the demands for war redress to be "motorium" until the signing of the peace treaty or the resolution of the issue of the two then Germans. In fact, in the face of the pressure of eleven Western European states, including our country, the term of the London Treaty not to pay back corrections through bilateral treaties for as long as it was making payments for repayment of its debts, was only brought about when private claims for compensation for victims were met, for example by the agreement between the Federal Republic of Germany and Greece, for example. On 3-10-2010, the single Germany completed the repayment of its financial obligations to the deadlines provided for in the London Treaty. The obligation to examine the requirements - such as ours - for corrections in the context of the final and universal regulation of the matter has therefore been made late. The debate on the Intergroup report today represents a conscious political choice of total and absolute disconnection of the claim of German mortgage debts from the regime of the hard committee, under which our country was to date because of the memoranda, but also any netting with the loan bonds of the country. In the medium term, with symbolic moves but also substantial, we have repeatedly expressed our country's devotion to the fight against the claim. Both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, and the President of the Parliament, repeat almost stereotypes to leading German leaders that the Greek claims are at least "legally active and judicially sought". I would also remind you that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, on 27 April 2018, took over by the Nazi troops in 1941, by a joint statement restored the Greek Republic's honour, which the junta was brutally insulting in favour of the limitation of Nazi crimes. On a practical level, the work of the committee was explicitly mentioned in the explanatory statement of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, which abolished the superfluous judiciary for the recognizing actions of the victims of World War II. Furthermore, by law, Greek citizenship was attributed to the descendants and grandchildren of the Greek Jews, victims of the Holocaust. The Committee's report rightly mentions in particular the judicial adventures of the seated Israeli community of Thessaloniki, the plundering of its property and the extermination of forced labour submitted by its male members as a pretext for the Holocaust. Also, in the context of the restoration of historical memory, the 30th of October, the day of liberation, the rescue of Thessaloniki's infrastructure by ELAS forces in 1944, was established. On May 2, the museum of our compatriots who were exterminated to Hitler's hangers will be inaugurated in Auschwitz, while the building of the museum and educational center of the Holocaust in Thessaloniki has already begun. In order to remove the constitutional obstacles - Article 28(1) of the Constitution - for the claims of the victims, I would remind you that by expressing the will of the Intergroup, on 13-2-2019, in the context of the debate on the Constitutional Review, I tabled an interpretative statement in Article 28 in order to remove the imperiality, which deprives the victims of the threefold occupation of the right to the natural judge. Recently, the patronage of our arguments was enriched by the scientific study of Carl - Hydes Rott and Hartmouth Rubner "The debt of the corrections - mortgages of the German occupation in Greece and Europe", which was translated into Greek by the Pierre Volunteer Group with the material support of the Greek Parliament. Copy of this study is available to all of you in the Library of the Parliament. The economic and legal documentation of our findings was based on the report of the Special Committee of the General Accounting Committee of the State and on the conclusion of the Working Group of the Legal Council of State, respectively. Our claims are an unbroken set, despite the individual qualitative differences and are not salvaged. This total was established by the first Parliamentary Committee on Liquidation of German Debt, set up by a parliament decision of 27 February 2014, and includes: War Reimbursements, the repayment of the mortgage, the compensation of the victims and the return of our looted archaeological treasures, as well as the stolen church relics from the Bulgarian occupation forces. On 14 November 1995, the Government of Andreas Papandreou called, by means of a private communication, for Germany to fulfil its obligations towards our country, since the reunification of Germany has automatically terminated the'moratorium' of payments provided for in the 1953 agreements. This private communication was dealt with in the most disgraceful way from the German side as it "responded" with a rejection paper from the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On the Greek side, unfortunately, there was no continuity. For reasons of time, we refer to the text of the report which you have in your hands for a more specific quantification of your claims. In short, I quote: For World War I, based on the General Accounting Office, our demands amounted to EUR 9,189.270.837 on December 31, 2014. The London Agreement on foreign German debts of 1953 provides for deferral and does not raise any question of non-existence or impairment or limitation of that requirement. To note that Germany until 1986 was paying back Greek demands from World War I. For World War II the General Accounting Office of the State determined that the balance of our net claims to Germany amounted on December 31, 2014 to EUR 269,547,000. It should be noted that these determinations do not cover compensation for human losses. Furthermore, the determination under the Paris Conference does not include the requirements for compensation from the sinking of commercial ships, the removal of gold, the leaking of gold from private individuals, the destruction of private property, the removal of tobacco and depository losses. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] According to the Bank of Greece's answer to the unambiguous resistance Stelios Zamano, a member of the National Council for the Claiming of German Debts and President of the Hellenic National Resistance Competition Association, the total amount of German debts to Greece is estimated at EUR 162.109.000.000, broken down into EUR 108.582.560.000 for the military redresss and EUR 53.526.615.000 for the mortgage loan. This reduction is based on the average exchange rate of the US dollar with the drachma in the year 1938, which was 112.62 drachmas. I shall submit the relevant response document from the Bank of Greece. The Special Committee of the General Accounting Committee of the State took advantage in its report of two approaches to determining compensation on the basis of the number of victims. During the first approach, the victims only from the war or imprisonment in camps and prisons are about a hundred and twenty thousand. With an average remuneration of 15 man-years, with an average monthly salary of 700 euros, the claims for compensation from this cause amount to EUR 15 120,000. In addition to this is compensation for disability caused by war or incarceration in camps and prisons, estimated at EUR 7,000,000. In total, that is, EUR 22 120,000,000 without interest being calculated. The second approach accepts the total number of deceased and disabled persons from every cause during the Occupation, as identified at the Paris Conference in 1946, about one million five hundred thousand, five hundred eighty and eighty thousand disabled. With an average compensation of 15 man-years for every deceased and five years for every disabled person, with a monthly average salary of 700 euros, claims for compensation from that cause amount to EUR 107 268 000, without the interest being calculated. It should be noted that they are pending before the Greek courts individual or group actions of thousands of Greek citizens. We believe that the Ministry of Interior has all the information necessary for the humanitarian disaster suffered by our country in order to determine to what extent private claims are made. The exclusions between the different ways in which German debts are calculated should not, in our view, be dealt with competitively. Obviously, when we invite the German Government to the negotiating table or appeal to the international courts, the Greek Government will ensure that there is convergence in terms of the requirements, by adopting it as objectively as possible. The committee, as a body of the Greek Parliament, had agreed at the first time to support its assessments exclusively in public documents. This is also a question of the limitation of Greek requirements from the point of view of international law. There is no provision in the 1907 Hague Convention for write-off claims based on the international responsibility of the sovereign state, namely Germany. Furthermore, there are too many examples of international agreements on dispute settlement that have remained pending for long periods of time, without a matter of limitation. According to German submissions, the fact that, in the preamble to the '2+4' Agreement on the Reunification of the two Germans, the Contracting Parties wish to finalise the issues arising out of World War II, renders inappropriate the provisions of the 1953 Treaty of London and deletes or weakens the claims for unsatisfactory corrections until the entry into force of that agreement. I would like to stress that Greece was not a Contracting State in the '2+4' Agreement. In other words, it did not sign it, ratify it, and never accepted that it had such results in terms of our claims. On the other hand, the 1995 financial communication made it clear that it considered that the reunification of the Germans led to the lifting of the'moratorium' in London and that the '2+4' agreement had no impact on the claims for German corrections of any state. As to the possibilities of judicial redress, our committee's conclusion records the following proposals and points: firstly, Greece can apply for the transnational claims to the Arbitration Court under Article 28 of the 1953 London Agreement. An appeal by a Contracting State to the Arbitration Court shall, as a necessary procedure, presuppose that the parties concerned have failed to resolve the dispute by negotiating. Secondly, in the International Court of The Hague, Germany submitted its 1-5-2008 declaration of acceptance of the jurisdiction of the court. In this statement, Germany recognises only the jurisdiction of the court for those disputes which will arise after the submission of its statement and which are linked to situations and events which will occur after 1-5-2008. The national courts, ours. The action brought by national courts is currently against the question of judicial review. As regards private claims, the Hellenic Republic may appeal as a representative of its own nationals, firstly, to the Arbitration Court under Article 28 of the 1953 London Agreement, secondly, to the International Court of The Hague and, thirdly, to the national courts. With regard to the question of court proceedings, it is well known that, since the Distomos case, following the judgment of the Livadea polypartite Court of First Instance in 1997, which was judged by an irrevocable decision of the Ice Bay of 2000, nineteen years have passed, without the victims having an enforceable title in their hands being able to find justice. At the same time, efforts to implement this decision in Italy, combined with similar legal developments, have led to Germany appealing against Italy before the United Nations International Court of Justice. Greece also intervened in this case, without being bound by its outcome. The decision of the Court of Justice of The Hague on the judicial immunity of the states of February 3, 2012 was considered by many tombstones in the fight of victims for justice and redress. Under the burden and subsequent ruling of the Supreme Special Court of 2002 and the Court of Justice of The Hague, as well as the unwillingness of the then rulings to deal effectively with the matter, Greece did back to the above attempt. In Italy, things have evolved differently. The Constitutional Court of Italy, under its decision No 238/2014, found that it was unconstitutional to comply with the German judicial system. At the same time, in the United States, the issue of German hetero-terrorism for mass crimes was raised in the target by the lawmakers of Herero and Nama communities in Namibia for the first genocide of the 20th century in 1903-1908 by the German colonial troops. In addition, we must not forget that Greece still maintains the anti-constitutional silk provision of Article 923 of the Code of Civil Procedure, according to which forced execution against a foreign state requires the permission of the Minister of Justice. On the contrary, in the United States of America and Canada, the compulsory lifting of the immunity of execution against states has been legislated for several years since they committed international criminal offences, such as Nazi crimes. The battle for the return of German debts is a twin, parallel battle to regain the historical memory, which was literally subject to "health burial" and was under "insecretary", as our great Austrian historian and compatriot now Hagen Flisser says. Historical review of the anti-fascist victory, in which we contributed a heavy price, served as a laundry for mass Nazi, fascist crimes. Thus, he prepared the ground in conditions of economic and social crisis, so that the bad sowing of defeated Naziism again took place in Greece and Europe. Unfortunately, once again, it has proved that crimes against humanity which remain unpunished and their victims are not restored morally and materially. In the context of our claims, the committee proposes the setting up of a committee to promote our claims, made up of MPs, judiciaries, inter-ethnicists, historical and legal scientists, representatives of resistance organisations, members of the victims of the network of witness cities and villages 1941-1945 and, of course, of the ECHR. It also proposes strengthening the networking of victims' associations with the network of martyr cities and villages in the fight against claiming. Support with all legal means of victims' associations, emphasising the need to create new associations and to form a federation. It also proposes to promote synergies with German legal, historical, constitutional and German organisations sensitive to justice performances, which are conducting a multi-fronted and long-term fight to claim debts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are proposing to internationalise our claims by sending a stadium of the House to inform the German Parliament and the other parliaments. To raise the issue in the Council of Europe, the UN and other international fora. Reconstitution with a reinforced mandate from the Greek War criminal office, which was dismantled by Decree-Law 4016/1959, in which case it was "self-justly suspended", he says, every prosecution of German nationals allegedly indicted as war criminals. I will also submit the relevant document.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Mitafidis, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u7	I shall conclude, Madam President. In 1975, by decision of the then government of Karamanlis, the huge archive of the national war criminal office, which was founded in 1945, was dubbed. We propose incorporation into Greek law of the United Nations Convention on the Non-implementation of its institution of limitations on war crimes and crimes against humanity passed in 1968. We can also consider appealing to the Arbitration Court of the Agency for Security and Cooperation in Europe, as suggested by Carl - Hydes Rott and Hartmouth Rubner. I close, ladies and gentlemen, by reading to you something that matters. In the prologue of the German edition of the book "In Greece of Hitler" in 2016, released in Greek twenty-three years ago, please write very topically, causing the reaction of the German systemic press to a very great historian, Mark Mazauer, who reminded me that he had fought against the country's economic strangulation during the memorial period: "In the early 1940s the idea that the states of Europe can escape the atrocities of the 20th century towards a better future was a dream. Today, when we have a completely more cynical view of Europe, with its image, it is perhaps the right opportunity to return back to the world of the 1940s, when it was a nation confronted with a nation that was further destroyed by an already poor world, the world of Greek land workers, farmers and factory workers." Thank you and apologise for the misuse of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u8	Mr Mitafidis, as chairman of the committee you made a comprehensive presentation and obviously the time was derailed. Before giving the floor to the representative of the New Democracy, I would like to make some announcements to this House. The first concerns visitors. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty-five students and students and two teachers from the 14th Municipal School of Chania and twenty-nine students and students and two teachers from the 5th General School of Painters. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Today is a historic meeting for the Parliament, which will discuss the decision to claim the German debts from our country's fascist occupation during World War II, which resulted in a million four hundred and thirty-five thousand victims, dead, mutilated, disabled and certainly caused destruction, burned villages, became holocausts and at the same time stolen gold, monuments and relics of Greece. Today the Greek Parliament decides to claim them. I also have two other announcements to this House: The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: “Conservation of Armed Forces Staff Regulations, Strategic, Military Justice and Other Provisions”. The Minister for Education, Research and Religion, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister for Economy and Development, Foreign Ministers, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Civil Protection, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Deputy Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, National Defence, Economic and Energy and the State Secretarys of Economy and Development, Research and Religious Affairs, tabled a draft law on 16-4-2019 yesterday on ‘ Universities and TE, Access to higher education, experimental schools, General Archives of the State and other provisions’. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I call on Mr Javarra from the New Democracy Party to step up the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, today's day is historic in terms of the fact that Parliament is obliged to take into account and make use of the history of Europe and Greece, but it is also historic that Parliament has been called upon to discuss a matter on which, for years, there have been errors, man-madeisms, various versions that have been trying to raise in the most fashionable way, or on the other hand, to blame in the most unacceptable manner, which Parliament has finally made, in three attempts, for setting up and setting up a committee to examine issues relating to German debts, such as those arising from the German occupation of our country in the years '41'45. Indeed, the House has so far demonstrated that it can, but it has mainly demonstrated that it has the capacity to deal with such a serious problem and seriously and responsibly. The first attempt was made in March 2014, where by decision of the then President of Parliament, Mr Meimarakis, the first committee was set up, on the basis of Rule 44 and 45 of the Parliament. In other words, these provisions provide for a committee for the study of national issues or issues of more general interest. I have been honoured in this first committee to elect a chairman and at least to have from this particular part of me in the committee by gathering representations, opinions and opinions from all the Members of this House represented in this particular committee, of which I am able to tell you today that all the issues have been raised since then, all the issues have been served in a way that really touched the degree of seriousness and responsibility that the House ought to have shown when dealing with and studying such a serious national issue. And why am I saying that? Firstly, because all the decisions of that committee were unanimous, such as those of the second committee set up by the government of SYRIZA and ANEL in February 2015 with the President of the former President of the Parliament, Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou. In this committee, too, all the decisions were unanimous. The only exception from this principle of unanimity has been the conclusion that we are now bringing to a discussion and it is indeed the conclusion of the third committee, where this committee has come to an end, because the two previous ones, while they gathered all the material, while they did, in fact, very good and appropriate planning, but they did not come to the point of drafting a report, because the facts of political developments have led to dissolution, given that the two respective parliamentary periods had expired early in the run-up to the elections in January, the first and the second in September. And you're going to tell me, is it in democratic debates a problem for there to be disagreement? Of course not. And the political and parliamentary process has a strong and vital one, I would say, the element of the conflict. But national issues are not available for conflict. When we all agree on exactly what has happened, while we agree on how exactly we should deal with things, we let ourselves into divisions and divisions, because some people have the impression that through the communication of some data from politics and parliamentary life, in their struggle for self-reservation, they will have or will have more points. In this regard, therefore, the New Democracy disagrees with this view when it comes to studying national issues, such as the issue of German debts to the Greek public. I am making all this introduction, because SYRIZA's previous colleague told us along the path of his words that, if there is any obstacle, this impediment is the hetero-trial barrier that we can in a very easy way, if we agree to make an interpretative statement in Article 28, to break it down more closely, to take action against Germany and to take what is due to us. If things were so easy, that's what the previous ones would have done from us. Unfortunately, Mr Colleagues, what you say about heterosy happens to be the foundation of the organization and formation of the states after 1648. After the Westphalia Treaty, therefore, the whole structure, existence and functioning of the states was based on the principle of national sovereignty. This principle of national sovereignty, among other consequences of international law, also produces an essential one. Who's that? No State shall be obliged to be subject to the jurisdiction of courts of another State. In other words, in the context of its national sovereignty, the national state, the Member State which is a member of the United Nations is only subject to the jurisdiction of its own courts. This is where all the problems start. That is why, at international level, at the level of international law, the specific courts which exist, for example, the International Court of The Hague, are not a court to which any citizen can appeal. It does not have the right to appeal by the private person. Article 34 says that only states can appeal to the Court of Justice of The Hague. The second, of course, is that, in order for the state to be bound by the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice of The Hague, it should, among other things, have recognised, made a declaration of recognition and commitment by jurisdiction. This, in the case of Germany - you said - was done in 2008 by limiting that only for the events after 2008 and not for the events that have taken place between 1941 and 1945 may Greece or any other state which has been affected, has been damaged by the German occupation, by the fascism and atrocities that the Nazis have done to the detriment of humanity, to resort to this court. So this is not the case for Greece. We now go in the case of the Arbitration Court of London, 1953. Indeed, this treaty - as you said, as the committee said - has organised and established an arbitration tribunal, which is solely responsible for giving jurisdiction to all matters relating to the interpretation and application of the Treaty of London, that is to say, the one which we are interested in and which concerns us in the case of the claim of damages, corrections, the return of the stolen, or the predatory treasures of our culture. But here, there is one question that the committee either did not want to mention or was obviously overthrown by what was written in the conclusions of the Legal Council of State. Of course, these people are legal and not politicians. Because the counter-problem that is being provoked and founded against this version of appeal to the court under Article 28 of the London Treaty is political. What does a politician mean? It is the conclusion that when we read the provision of Article 28, where this particular Arbitration Court consists of eight members. The three members are appointed by the then Federal Republic of West Germany. The other three members shall be appointed by one of the United Kingdom, the United States of America and France. These six members add a president and a Vice-President, who, in order to be designated, should also agree with the Federal West Germany then all three forces who have won and have the right to nominate a member of the court. So the correlation of power which arises against Greece on the basis of at least the arithmetic is: three plus two, i.e. five, as against three. So if we resort to this particular court, it is certain that we will fail. In other words, we will have a judiciary crisis of exclusive competence for the matter that tells us "sir, your specific claims are rejected". The question, ladies and gentlemen, which is now being relentlessly put before us is: do we want these objectives to be met? Do we want Germany's specific obligation to respond to its self-evident debts to Greece? If we want to do so, then, we must stop dealing with this issue as a matter of communication for the great fights, in fact, which, before Parliament has dealt with this issue, a series of clubs, clubs, fighters - indeed - are forced by all the Members of the Greek people to bow down. However, we are also obliged to deal with this issue at another level and with different data. Because politics means making a decision. It does not mean either coming here and speaking celebrities, nor do we make a recycling of communes, which may, of course, refer to a good objective, but actually, they do not offer anything at the end of the day. And you will allow me to say, of course, that the Prime Minister himself experienced this before me when he held the known meeting and was before Chancellor of Germany and raised it, but as a moral issue. So, here, there is a real field to deal with, study it, plan it and fight it. But all of this must be organised in a methodical and systematic way in a realistic, pragmatic plan. And what's that plan? In the committee I had the honour of chairing, we had called three relevant public international law experts. It was Mr. Flogaite, Brendimas and Mr. Perrakis. And they, with the knowledge of their international law, told us and advised us: "In order for Greece to be able to meet its rightful demands, it has no other way than to make its request acceptable to international public opinion. And through this outcry, through this pressure that will be organised, then the State of Germany, the Republic of Germany, because, in fact, it respects and is a member of the Council of Europe, and of course has internalised in its legal order all the principles and values of the ideas that have created the prestige that keeps the civilized world of the West after World War II, it is certain that it will retreat and launch a field of negotiation that Greece will actually benefit." So far, Germany is obviously avoiding the debate and making various press releases, but without basically saying something that we can catch. So the path that exists is the one that the committee had drawn up. And what was this road that was not followed by the committee that was, in the majority, members of SYRIZA? It was that at that time we had planned to organise an international conference in Athens, where politicians, diplomats, professors of public international law, federations, representatives of federations, representatives of fraternities who have suffered damage from Nazism and the atrocity of World War II. And while we had this organized and effectively started with the invitation to participate in this conference of the President of the Italian Constitutional Court, Mr Giuseppe Tezauro, a professor of constitutional law, who had, as President of the Italian Constitutional Court, adopted - then this particular decision was fresh - a revolutionary one in the conception of the decision. In this judgment the Italian Constitutional Court accepted that national courts have the right, in the context of the provision of judicial protection to their citizens, to apply rules of international public law, since they refer to crimes against humanity. So that's what we wanted here to organise. We wanted to advertise them. We wanted to make it a platform so that we could contact international public opinion our fair request. Unfortunately, this did not take precedence over the committee which we are discussing today, because that is where other sensible points were raised. The logic of making the Step of this committee a Step in which anyone was invited to speak of anything evil that was caused during the Occupation. We respect that. The pain of individuals we respect him. We respect the human suffering actually caused by the atrocities of Nazism in Greece. However, as representatives of the Greek people, we are obliged to put them at a level above, at the level of politics, that is to say, where decisions must be taken that aim not to repeat rehearsalable or easy and pleasant communities, but that level should be used every time of speech, which is able to indicate the means by which we will achieve our purpose. A great German philosopher said that man’s greatest enemy is cosmopia, and unfortunately, he ended up getting away with the commonwealth. Unfortunately, I now say it by drawing a conclusion, today's left that governs the place, has chosen to fight with the commonwealth as an ally. I think that what is beneficial is to think that it has solved all the problems and that it gives itself the satisfaction of self-sufficiency and completeness when hearing their ideologies speak and when they hear their narratives tell. In this way, however, Greece does not go ahead. Greece's not going forward. In order for Greece to go forward, we should all, as we have done in the two original committees, and we have adopted unanimous and unanimous decisions, to be repeated in this third committee. Unfortunately, from the heroic style of the President's speech there was no room for further reflection, a reflection of pragmatism, a concern that would indeed be responsible and serious to resolve the issue of reproach. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by pointing out this: all of us together, united, because the common objectives unite us, we are united in common. And while I'm saying it's a commonwealth, but everyone understands it differently, and I'll explain why. To date it has been three years since the committee issued the specific conclusion we are discussing today. In these three years why didn't you bring this to the House and bring it now when we're on the eve of the elections? You obviously feel guilty, who want to rinse it out through this process and rinse it out because tomorrow where you go to the audience will tell you: "But you are the first to put this issue and so far you have done nothing." [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And there is a second one, which is also important. The Prime Minister has had all the power to do this and to deal with it and support it and claim it. It has only been limited to a confession of faith that left Mrs Merkel to understand that there is no question of substantial satisfaction, but a question of moral satisfaction. However, with these logics, neither will you go forward nor Greece benefit. Because everyone is now aware that what you are seeking is the theatricalization of political life. Of course you know something. Even this decision that we shall vote on following the debate on this issue, in which the President of the Parliament has, in a very careful manner, gathered the minimum points of mutual acceptance of all the wings of the democratic arch and, of course, we have no disagreement, is to give the government the impetus to deal with this by moving it to the satisfaction of all legal, diplomatic and legal instruments. But that's an I.D., that's obvious. The government of the Constitution and the laws has the exclusive power to deal with these issues to claim them where there is room for their claim and, above all, not to let them recycle through discussions which, in the end, only remain on the verdict. So these sketchy things and 'go', democracies do not need them. Democracies need the praise of "the Municipality and the Sophiists", as the Alexandrian poet said. So we are struggling and fighting in the way it is offered every time, with the means we gather each time, because at least if it is something that has emerged in the most majestic way from the actions and studies that the committee has done, it is that the slander that has been printed and constantly recycled that supposedly the late nation-state of Constantine Karamanlis had exchanged it with 200,000 000 000 for the crimes of Nazism. It turned out to be a false who was moved only to affect the liberal party. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It has been proved, therefore, that the committee has said that the pursuits and claims of the Greek state against the German Republic are active and judicially sought. They've never been erased! And that is why we have the courage today, and we have the great honour to say as a new Republic that this matter is indeed and we have kept it alive and handed it over to the next governments and we will insist on its satisfaction, of course not in the way that my colleague said earlier, to put an interpretative statement in the Constitution and say 'the national sovereignty of the German Republic is being abolished'. These are nice fairy tales, but they're not for serious people. We will therefore insist on this fight with responsibility, morality and patriotic attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Javarra, please complete. You're in twenty-six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u11	Madam President, I'm stopping here. I don't want to tell you anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u12	Thank you. We'll make a deal. It is not possible, because the first speaker has exceeded time, for everyone to claim a parity in violating the decisions of the Conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u13	It is up to you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u14	This is what I do not want to interfere with and interrupt. But from now on, I'm interrupting. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and two teachers from the 1st Primary School of Papagos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, obviously, Madam President, and we do not agree on your proposal, because I think this debate is very important. It could be kept at different limits with your own intervention. I would like to welcome and welcome all the associations of victims of the torture scenes, the associations of fighters, who have kept the issue alive for so many years, and ask you, Madam President, because it is a historic day today, not to interrupt for any roll-call vote. The House meets on a subject relating to historical memory. You understand - and I do not think anyone in the Chamber disagrees - with the due respect for both the victims and the historical memory and the people who are here today, representing these associations, that the meeting should be completed properly and that no roll-call vote should take place. We have time for them later. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that it is a great honour for the Greek Parliament to reread the history of this place, to assume the historical responsibility for the heroic and martyrdom journeys of the Greek people and to face up to national debt, provided that it does so with sincerity, openness and awareness that it is also part of the history of this place. It must respond with its attitude to the historical memory of the Greek people, but also to its institutional status as a representative of the sovereign will of the Greek people. As long as Parliament can stand above the timing of political need and realize that critical and major issues of historical self-consciousness must remain outside the party exploitation and manipulation tools and mutation of the historical memory of the Greek people. The martyrical places and burnt-outs of the Nazi atrocity in Greece are not only in Greek history, but in the world history of the countries that today claim the moral justice of the sacrifices of the people of their country and the honor of their dead. At the same time, they call for these sacrifices not to be forgotten, declaring 'never fascism'. Top places of testimony of the Greek patriots are Kalavrytas, Thessaloniki, Distomo, Candanos, Kosmeni, Viannos, Kerdylia, Domenikos and other eighty places of Greece which were sealed by pain, hatred, pain, depreciation of human life and dignity. What has not been heard so far in this Chamber - and I think we all agree - is that today we can talk about this part of Greek memory, because there is the term - and the term - 'collapsing' has been recognised. This term, which has passed through the great history and the law of the peoples who have won their freedom with blood against fascism, the term 'holocaust', expresses the fate of thousands of people in our place, millions of world people, sealed with extinction, torture, imprisonment, outrage, deprivation, tragedy and death. The term "holocaust" went into the language of the peoples and also international law, after the Nuremberg trial as the greatest crime in the Second World War, a crime against humanity, and marked the systematic destruction of whole regions, the destruction of populations and the destruction and plundering of villages. It is a great list, as I said, of the Greek cities and villages that were burnt by the Nazis and thousands of victims, men, women and children, all civilians, who were slaughtered in the name of the most horrific irrationality that mankind has ever known, namely Nazism. The martyrial sites are a long chain of Greek villages and cities that met the mass retaliations. In the Greek martial places, we owe honor and I feel particularly responsible for representing in this debate in the Greek Parliament the prefecture of Achaias, which historically marks the top location of the Greek Holocaust, the Kalavritas, where, on the back of Kapi, the Germans executed the male population and burned the city on 13 December 1943. Our participation, both in this Intergroup Committee and in both the previous ones in claiming German debts, has been made at the very first moment under the terms of the necessary national agreement, so that the reports, the conclusions, the decisions are consensual, as in such a national matter, and the committee must follow up the previous efforts by the other committees and citizens' associations in order to claim claims and German debts. We believed and believe that these committees - and the latter - should have been, despite the fact that our divergences were sufficient, to propose specific lines of action for the Greek state not only for the Greek Government, not just for the majority. And, indeed, the report that has been drafted and which we gave our consent had to a large extent - not entirely, not all - these features. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that since the committee worked very cooperatively and concluded its conclusion from 2016 at these last July meetings in the summer of 2016, it is a wonder why we had to wait three years for Parliament to discuss this and for any Greek government and the Greek state to take the guidelines for actions that are necessary to keep this matter alive. We believe that apart from the junta government, pseudo-government, all the other governments have tried to keep the issue alive along with the constant struggle of victims' associations and fighters. However, today, when we are invited to discuss in April 2019 the July 2016 conclusion, I think it is a sign of the mystical, micro-party perception of the Government that while the Intergroup report was delivered to the President of the Parliament in 2016, it was used as a tool for a paradoxical policy. Remember that at first Mr Tsipras referred to the forthcoming debate in Parliament and immediately thereafter disappeared from the public debate, depending on the political context and the visits of foreign officials. This has been the case for three years, Madam President. We had discussed many times that responsibility is not just of the Prime Minister. I told you. It is also a responsibility for the Bureau of Parliament which did not force the government, if it had received the conclusion, to have this debate held today, a few weeks before the elections, to close the debate. What is forbidden against such a matter of historical memory and national debt is the political use of the Intergroup report, as Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA did, because we are not forgetting anything. There were stations all over this route. Throughout this process, and before and after the relocation, there were stations, stations which reminded us of the existence of the issue, the existence of the Greek state's claims towards the German state. We do not forget, of course, that the last act of claiming German debts officially by the Greek state was that on 14-11-1995, when Andreas Papandreou instructed the Minister of Foreign Affairs Charles Papoulias to serve the Greek Ambassador in Berlin with a legal claim. We have reclaimed - and I think the Greek governments have, of course, repeatedly claimed the debate, with a recent intervention by President Fofi Gennimata in the House, but also in Kalavrita and in Crete and elsewhere. What matters is that the tooling use of such a topic of national scope shows a reduced awareness of SYRIZA about its value and content. The inseparable link between this issue and the government's Memorandum of Adaptation throughout these three years undermines the great value of the negotiations with Germany, but also the future claim of debts. Let us remember what has happened all these years. As I said, depending on the external or internal audience, Mr. Tsipras had different positions on the subject. This is why we, ladies and gentlemen, are not only listening to this, but also to those concerned, namely Germany. Against Mrs Merkel the claims are made by Mr. Tsipras, but undetermined outstandings left to us in history, not the Nazi atrocity, such as the corrections to the mortgage debt, as he said at the beginning of 2019, while already in 2015 the claims became differences that came from the past, such as the issue of the mortgage loan and the corrections that the Prime Minister said were a moral issue and not material for the Greek and German people. These have been recorded in official statements and you understand that this moral and not material problem we have with Germany is a withdrawal from the main national position, which is that against the German state the Greek state, the Greek state has claims and claims for certain reasons. At the same time, at the highest level, at Mr Tsipras' recent meeting with German President Steinmayer, the claims have become differences that we must not forget or hide under the carpet, as he has said, differences from the distant past for which we must jointly define their scope of resolution based on international law. What does these positions which, as I said before, have to do with retreat from the fixed Greek position, with the findings of the report and the proposals that we had jointly put forward by most parties? For three years the report has been buried, precisely because its emergence has not been an option for the government and why it has not been able to serve its Memorandum policy. For us, it is clear that claims for war compensation and material disasters and leakages, war redress, repayment of the mortgage and the return of the stolen archaeological treasures and church relics are active legal and political claims based on Greek, European and international law. Greece has never been given up on its general demands from Germany, and this must be left alive, so that the matter can then be internationalised and there is evidence of negotiation that can lead to a positive solution for Greece. Three years now the proposals of the Intergroup have remained completely inappropriate, without any of them being implemented, without any of the initiatives we have proposed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I would like your tolerance a little. I won't be long. I would remind you that it is precisely because we agreed that legal solution is problematic and should have recourse to the internationalisation of the issue, what should be done is the establishment of a committee for the promotion of the claim made by MPs, judges, inter-ethnicists, historians, legal scientists, members of the resistance organisations and victims' associations and networks of testimonial cities. What was important was the awareness of the international community, so that the issue could be a negotiable field with Germany, as well as the fact that the contact of similar committees with German committees could create the right framework so that the issue could evolve. Because at the moment, without being at the 'zero' point, we are not at the point of starting negotiations with Germany in any event. The internationalisation of the matter is the solution, and this, with the initiatives of the Greek Parliament, the Greek Government, which will show that on the one hand there is the will and on the other hand there is the means to internationalise the matter. Ladies and gentlemen, today's decision of the Greek Parliament is symbolic, but it will remain a political reminder of the next governments, to claim not only the corrections but also the restoration of the entire debts, first the one to the victims of the Nazi atrocities, and this debt is a debt of honour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. Mr Papatheodorou, the request for a roll-call vote was tabled by Members yesterday and the plenary decided here to do so. No objections were raised. Now a world has been prepared. It is reasonable what you are saying, but there are those obligations. We'll handle them very soon. There will also be a reorder on the speakers, because there are some colleagues who have good reasons to leave Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-eight students and students and three teachers attending at the Lefkosio of Lefkoimis Corfu High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I now invite Mr. Hatzishavva, the representative of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u17	Today we are discussing German debts. The Greek people must understand what these debts are because there are many things to be done. Also, there are too many numbers. And it will have to understand even the size of mockery and injustice and of course the criminal negligence of not claiming for more than seventy years from all governments and right and centred and left. Firstly, with regard to the war compensation for the material disasters and leakages, the damage caused to Greece due to its occupation by German occupation troops amount to EUR 503 million, USD 538,000, of pre-war value. These figures relate to metallurgical and mechanical installations, chemicals, various industries and production. According to a summary of the above losses, the positive losses amount to 582,184,000 drachmas in 1940, the leakages to 200 billion drachmas in 1940. Non-marketable losses have not been calculated. In analytical tables of the General Staff, the damage of the Greek army in all kinds of material is estimated at 59,863,000 drachmas of 1940 or 51,226,000 gold pounds. Secondly, war redress of victims and their relatives. According to the 2-10-1945 document entitled "Report on the economic situation of Greece" Greece holds the first place among the states on victims. The proportion of victims in the total population is 19.7%. The great sacrifice the Greeks made in this battle of the Alliance. To date, however, unfortunately, despite the lifting of the war with Germany in 1951, the existing evidence does not show satisfaction with claims for compensation for Greek nationals either on the domestic or foreign territory. Thirdly, the repayment of the mortgage on which too many and too many numbers are heard. During the Occupation the German army received money in the form of a loan from the Bank of Greece, except for the seizures and disasters suffered by Hellenism. Their debt was recognised by the Germans, and even before the war ended, they started paying it back until October 1944. They later paid it in Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia and Poland. In Greece, no. At the Paris Peace Conference in 1946, Germany's debt to Greece amounted to 100 billion euros. Since then, the debt has been cancelled and, with the addition of a symbolic interest rate, the debt now amounts to EUR 500 billion. Of course there are other estimates of approved European economists talking about debt of EUR 575 billion. According to another point in the report, between 1941 and 1944 Greece paid 157 billion drachmas to Italy and 2,35 million drachmas to Germany. In conclusion, in euro, Germany's debt to Greece in terms of the mortgage is delimited to a documented range between EUR 335 to EUR 407 billion and rather tends to become finalised on the average of these two estimates, around EUR 371,4 billion. Fourthly, return the stolen archaeological treasures and ecclesiastical relics. This is, of course, a little more complicated because stolen archaeological treasures are also on the part of the Allies since the Ottoman occupation. The Greek society cannot understand and wonder why so many years have not been collected, because we let them shake our fingers, that we owe them already. It is clear that this is due to the lack of political will and guilt caused by this deficit, following the criminal inertia, to all the Greek governments that followed after the German occupation. For over seventy years the responsibilities of the parties have been great. But what parties and governments are we talking about? PASOK, New Democracy and JRC. PASOK owes the same EUR 200 million to the Greek state. The damage he has done in the Greek state is not small. He ate millions of credit and wild and multiples in misery and scandals. Even today it is being investigated by its members, MPs, former ministers and Prime Ministers from PASOK in a million-dollar scandal. The New Democracy, of course, doesn't go back. It has EUR 200 million in banks and is involved in many other scandals and the years of its own governance, but also on its own. Because she likes co-governs and with the JRC rang and with the PASOK rang, she did the same. How can the JRC of course speak of disasters in World War II, having a history of hundreds of civilian victims after the departure of the Germans and apricots to the property of the Bolsheviks of the Snof Alliance, as they have witnessed historically, such as Floraki and Cyrcus? The answer thus suggests self-evident and obvious. The reason for the criminal inertia is that all the politicians, all the parties that ruled in Greece and which, in compliance with the strict requirements of the international economic mandates, neglected them, indifferent, silenced national interests and eventually never really dealt with this particular national issue. Only in election times, and especially in the last ten years, are they seen as interested in the issue, just to create impressions on the electorate. You all remember beforehand the German debts and your revolutionary tactics and krone, but when you get out of government you bury them in the closets where you hide all the skeletons of your crimes against the Greek nation and our country, the assignment of our national sovereignty and the economic loop, which one year you pull a government from the left and one you pull from the right and we have thousands of young people leaving as immigrants abroad and thousands of Greeks desperate to commit suicide. The domestic political situation, and at the moment, the SYRIZA Government, in agreement with the other forces of the supposed constitutional arch, is sufficient to draw up a debate on the cross-party report, which is, in practice, a synthesis of historical references and blessings with proposals as a whole, meaningless and ineffective and always in the light of the fact that our good relations with our partners, our allies, are not ruined. Who are they? It is NATO and the European Union. After seventy years, and if we make a regression over the whole period, we will find that endlessness, political intentions, our unconditional integration into this international alliance and the slavery that has been a key feature of the foreign policy over the years have led to a failure to defend our national rights and the achievement of our national objectives. A tranquil example and a sad fact that, with the end of World War II, Greece, despite the heavy blood tax it had paid and despite the fact that it was on the winners' side, no other gain or gain had from its resistance and its heavy sacrifice. In practice, it gave up its undetermined sovereign rights on both Northern Epirus, on whose territory rivers of Greek blood and of Cyprus had been spilled. We abandoned both economic and territorial claims as allies of the winners because when the victors shared the spoil Greece was involved in the catastrophic war that followed the end of the German occupation until 1949 when the National Army fought to keep Macedonia and Northern Greece. In the next few decades, however, much has not changed. Our allies, which I mentioned before, forced us to do everything. Capitalists and multinationals, with communist political puppets for prime ministers, such as Merkel and Tsipras, close their mouths for Germany's economic reconstruction only for the benefit of what I mentioned. In the United States of America, Trump exercises an economic protectionist policy. In England they decided on their own good to leave the European Union. France and Germany are hegemony powers in Europe. This has become the European Union, the enemy of the southern states, and with a mud and propaganda movement, they are trying to frame us for what is bad and bad. The Greeks are to blame for what happens to them. It's not the Germans' fault. And we can accept that and pay them while we owe them. But you will receive your answer to the next elections, to the European elections, with the strong popular support that patriotic parties in their position to defend the rights of their nations and their homelands and social justice for their peoples will receive. I personally believe that these are the last European elections on the sound and inhumane European Union, at least in the form we know of it. Great Britain will show that outside the loop of the European Union it can keep the nation financially, with relationships loose, such as Switzerland, for example, and will be the catalyst for the demands of the peoples of Europe to follow Brexit's path as defensive attitude. In order to prevent the European Union's dominators from dismantling it, they will be able to fold their inhuman economic policy and address the poor people, but also in the middle class that has been targeted and put to death and perhaps create a multi-speed zone so that people can breathe somehow and give life to the poor economic union. The spark, however, which has come from the bright example of Britain for the good of its people, will not be able to eradicate and will lead to the definitive collapse and dismantling of the rotten oligarchic elite presenting itself as the European Union. Then all the nations of Europe must unite in an alliance that is able to face the global war that has begun and is economic, religious and cultural. It is trying to get the economic classes to fight each other rather than to work together for development, Christian and Muslims to be killed either by bombing civilians or by asymmetric retaliation on the other hand, in the heart of European and Western civilization in general. What was done in the two World Wars continues now, by moving large populations of violently displaced persons, by military NATO invasion into Asia and Africa, but also by force invasion of illegal immigrants, as a consequence, towards Europe, through a road drawn by NGOs and NGO donors. The same who finance air bombing policy and the jihadist spring, finance Europe's paid humanism. What political body and what government will, then, demand the German debts? Certainly not those who signed and kept the Ribentro - Molotov Pact, not those who have been the domestic pawns of capitalism and cosmopolitan civilization in clothed with the propaganda of the patriot and newly-born Macedonian machenomist nowadays. How does one condemn the results of NATO and the European Union's mandates, but does not dare NATO and the European Union to denounce itself? How does the New Democracy and the PASOK allegedly denounce the treason of the Ambassadors, but does not denounce the conduct and pressures of the United States of America, Germany, or NATO, to pass quickly and without the people asking? Complaints are false and pretextful, as are the so-called attitude to claims from the previous governments, but also from the current government, which even fears to speak out loud to Merkel, so that she does not receive it as opposition, to convince us that she will find the courage to claim compensation. I will inform you that there is no case at all, it will simply put the burden on the next government. SYRIZA since the summer of 2016 indicated that the committee would come to plenary in September. We arrived in 2019, by election. So, it is easily understood and we can understand what it is intended and what it will result in what we are doing today. You are, of course, printing various books, making monuments, serving your need for resistance memory, but you worship today’s Germany as subordinates. Not only do you claim the dues, but we pay them over and over. It is an illegal and burdensome debt and you mortgage the future of the coming generations of Greeks, deleting every memory of resistance to the conqueror, granting many more of what he did not manage to distract us with war and weapons. He is now doing it with the memorials he has passed with this anti-national and folk policy. Congratulations! Can the government answer us why the German side reiterates that Greece has either resigned or does it not even raise a point of order? A German Member has tabled a question and received the answer that the Greek Government has not requested payment of German debts. In order for the Greek people to understand that in the last decade, those who came out and said that there was a question of demand and compensation, were lying. None of the Greek Government has the right to waive the country's claims against Germany and its debts. It's not a debt to the government, it's a debt to our country. Shoeble told you that the Greek claims for damages are nonsense. Fully subordinated to the Memorandum and to the mandates of Brussels and Berlin, the domestic political forces as a whole, except of course the Greek nationalists, did not simply absolve, but were not even contemplated to glean at all. Golden Dawn had presented the only national beneficial solution in response, which could immediately, away from vagueness and generalities, put the issue on a new basis and bring the German state before it. One point in the answer reads: Germany's debt to Greece has been recognised by the Treaty of Paris and is considered to be completely legal by all European economists. On the contrary, the Greek debt to the Germans is in most of the illegal and burdensome, as it was created by the tuco-culpture loans and the smuggling of the jurors. Golden Dawn proposes the immediate posting of the illegal debt to Germany and the deletion of total debt to the state of Siomple. By offsetting it with the land loan and the war redresss, the amount of the difference that will arise in favour of Greece can certainly be repaid by the Germans by providing defence military material. Continuing its proposals, it says that a national committee of reliable economists, legal and historical public acceptance, should be set up, which would define precisely and with indisputable documentation the exact amount of Germans' total debt to Greece and the Greek people. Direct registration of Greece’s total financial claims recorded in the State Budget as expected revenue. Like confiscations of real estate, i.e. fines and overtaxation of Greeks, you know, the new government has learned as well as the old ones. The Group of the European People's Party - Golden Dawn aims at the immediate and dynamic claim of the German Government's mortgage loan, which is, moreover, to a large extent, responsible for the "fuss" of our burdensome debt. The European Union's easy lending, which has been received by Greece over the last few decades, has given the German exporting industry, the automotive industry, etc. To date, they have been repaid in disgusting tactics, while they have been overpriced by all products. Banks and companies of German interests are involved in almost all the scandals in Greece. In conclusion, as far as today is concerned, the committee and the plenary today should be renamed to a ceremony to remember the claims for German debts. Wishes and promises! All those who have ruled over these seventy years have been renounced in practice, without any sign of shame, without any sign of remorse. And of course without a trace of guilt you have forgiven both our inferior victorious allies and our defeated enemies, who, with their two wars, escaped the economic tide of the time and destroyed our country and materials and economics and continue to destroy it. Enough of the mockery to the Greek people. Seventy years more is enough, let's stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u18	Mrs Manolakou has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u19	Political descendants of the Nazi conquerors have no right to speak of German debts. This concerns the militant patriots who fought for the freedom of their homeland. After all, they are the ones who say they are descendants of the defeats of 1945, or Hitler. There's a chance for the people to corner them. But let us come to today's order. The truth is that although three years have passed since the conclusion of the intergroup on German debts, it is only now coming to plenary. Why? What prevented you? Nothing. It is simply the only period when the SYRIZA Government remembers German compensation is the election campaign, when all these years it has done nothing essential to claim them, although it has repeatedly met with the President and Chancellor of Germany. It only remains in unadulterated words and at the same time ensures that this historic demand is weakened every time by using vague references and some initiatives at an appropriate time and in agreement with the other side, or, essentially, by confronting the moral dimension of German compensation from the actual financial debt. The pretext is that now is not the time to raise the issue. The government of SYRIZA followed exactly the steps of the New Democracy and PASOK. He has never claimed the debts of the German Government, so that the alliances of Greek capital are not disturbed. Besides, in the conclusion of what we are discussing in the Intergroup on the claim of German debts, there is no reference to an explicit commitment by the Government to claim all of them. And today, with this proposal - a resolution, in essence, you refer to the bells, and we say so clearly, we will not become accomplices to governmental manipulations of all governments not to claim German debts. So we are tabling our own proposal - a decision and I am reading it, because this is how the Rules of Procedure impose: seventy-four years from the end of the Second World War and the anti-fascist victory of the peoples and the debts of the disasters and plundering of the German, Nazi occupation troops in our country are still pending. Seventy-four years since the end of the Second World War and Germany has not yet paid compensation and corrections for the forced mortgage - robbery imposed on the occupied Greece, the huge damage to the infrastructure caused by the German occupying troops, recognised by the International Conference of Allies in Paris (December 1945-Generis 1946), compensation for victims of the horrific nazi crimes, the hostages in the Nazi camps and factories of the German monopolies and, furthermore, the return of the archaeological treasures of invaluable value and the treasures of cultural heritage robbed by the German occupying forces. The responsibility of the Greek Governments, the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK in recent years, and also of the SYRIZA Government, is great for these developments, because they have not actually raised the matter and have not claimed the German corrections. They let the weather flow without setting when the time will come. All governments are reminded of this on Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election Election The reason, of course, was not the lack of evidence to document the claims. After all, the data were sufficient and had been recorded at times in the past. The main reason for the Greek Government's political attitude and the non-claiming of German debts was the harmonisation with the choices of the bourgeoisie, in order not to disturb its alliances linked to the service of its interests. In this spirit, the SYRIZA Government has refused to respond even to a request from the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament to send its views on this issue, following the report by the EIA - the Democratic Army of Greece. This is no longer the case. The Government has an obligation to place directly, directly and without rotation to the German State and to claim compensation for all the damages. We put it in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] We will press the government to do the debt it owes. We know her tactics. There's experience of other things. Was there not a unanimous decision by the House on the recognition of the Palestinian state? Three years, what are you doing? You're sending it to the bells, so you don't mistreat your friends allies, the state killer state of Israel and evilly good Trump. We are clearly saying that our people have the right to claim compensation and corrections for the forced mortgage, huge infrastructure disasters, damages to the victims of Nazi crimes, cultural treasures, at the same time as their fight against the anti-population policy of the government, the European Union and capital. We point out and stress that the fulfilment of German debts results from the International Conference in Paris and, therefore, it is not just a matter of Greece - Germany, but of the implementation of the German Government to Greece, when Greece is even among the countries with the most dead in World War II since the four-year Nazi Occupation, while incalculable damage, pillaging and destruction of the nation's wealth are. However, the same is not the case with other occupied countries that have claimed them and achieved them in various ways, with special contracts, the collection of claims. The examples are enough. The then unified Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, France and others, were taken. And it is noteworthy that after the end of World War II, the defeated Germany did not pay compensation and corrections in our country, with the exception of an insignificant amount of 115,000 Marks, according to the Bonn Convention of 1960, which, of course, concerns specific categories of Greeks persecuted by nazis due to religion or race, explicitly excluded from the contract of the other claims. However, ladies and gentlemen, this finding does not include claims to compensate the victims of the crimes of the Nazis, the hostages and forced labour in the Nazi camps and the monopolies of Germany. In other words, they do not contain those of private individuals. Furthermore, it does not raise a question of their immediate claim by Germany, while the other major disasters and plundering by the troops are contained in so far as the evidence is exaggerated, unambiguous. I mean, in the most conservative ways of calculating, it means we're a discount. However, I cannot say that there has been a serious task of converting the sums calculated at the time into current values, but the SYRIZA Government is not making use of it, as is the previous ones in the New Democracy and PASOK who still refuse to claim from the German state these fair requirements. The argument that first the documentation had to be prioritised to raise the question of corrections was unstable. There are elements, and in any case there are reports from the Legal Board of the State and the General Accounting Office of the State. Therefore, the promotion of this issue is a purely political issue alone. This political attitude of not demanding today, but also the previous governments, has strengthened the German side so that it does not lose any chance to clarify that for Germany this issue is not in existence and has been closed for some time. Indeed, it reiterates its unacceptable claim that Germany has fulfilled its obligations towards our country through bilateral assistance, since both countries have developed close relations on a bilateral basis, as well as within the framework of the Imperialist organisations of NATO and the European Union. They're allies now to these imperialist organizations. That is how the German leaders support it. Greece cannot have a legal claim for the payment of corrections. In fact, they do us a favor, saying that Germany also contributes to healing the wounds it recognizes as having created. He mentioned it during his visit to Greece and the current President Steinmeier in 2018 and Chancellor Merkel in January 2019. The Federal Parliament of Germany has therefore decided to set up the "Greek German Fund for the Future". That's the title he gave. In other words, she tries to oppose the obligation to pay her debts for the disasters and crimes in Greece during the Second World War, by giving some scum through the "Greek German Fund for the Future". It is a creation of the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs to fund concrete actions in towns and villages that became Holocausts, martyr cities and villages, as in the Jewish communities of Greece, as a means of redress for the horrific Nazi crimes. Yes, they want to affect the historical memory of our people, so that these crimes will be forgotten and, together, the claim of war redress and compensation will be forgotten. So you feed the golden ones, the offspring of fascists and associates of the conquerors of Nazi Germany. The Hellenic German Youth Foundation was also established, co-funded with equal participation by Greece and Germany. Despite the assurances that the "Greek-German Fund for the Future" is in no way an answer to the Greek demand for the debts, the German Government seeks through its action, but also by the creation of the Greek-German Youth Foundation to alleviate until and to make any action and action to redress the debts in Greece, whether they relate to the mortgage loan and the disasters in Greece or to the families who were destroyed in the Holocausts, the martyrical cities and villages, as is apparent from the explanations of the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The German Government, in fact, urges that it is interested in contributing to a large social project in Greece as a move to alleviate the consequences of the atrocities committed by Nazis during World War II in the context of their recognition, repentance, creation and development of climate reconciliation. All this is an alibi to avoid payment of debts and has been told about Nazi crimes. Besides, war is in the nature of imperialism. Germany is once again arming itself to wage an imperialist war, has an army outside its borders in Asia, Africa and elsewhere. With these actions, the German Government, which owes the Greek people billions of nazifting and crimes, will ask us to owe her a favor. And this will be agreed by the SYRIZA government, which Merkel gave her a vote of confidence. We will insist on the issue being raised in a multiformal manner and outside the House and in the European Parliament, putting the issue of claiming as a people's demand. After all, the Communist Party of Greece stood blood and soul of the struggles of our people, rallying in EAM-ELAS, fought victoriously with the weapon in hand the fascist hordes. Since the first moment he has highlighted - and continues to highlight - the question of claiming the debts from Germany in joint action with the organization of the resistance, the Pan-Hellenic Association of National Resistance - Democratic Army of Greece. In any case, this serious issue must not become an element of disorientation, of electoral exploitation, much more be seen as a panacea for solving the many and escalating problems of our people, aspiring to the eyes for the true leaders in this matter. We raised the issue of claiming debts from the 1950s, in the toughest conditions of illegality, brutal persecution and execution of communists. We have taken advantage of the opportunities to keep the issue up to date in the 1960s, and then in the post-Music in the 1970s and 1980s, in joint action with the resistance organizations. There have also been unacceptable answers, such as the Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union. In 1990, in a question from the Group of the European People's Party, we were told that this matter does not fall within the competence of the Community. Such responses are intended to cover the Nazi crimes, the responsibilities of Germany's bourgeoisie. Yes, we are proud of the dozens of interventions in the Greek Parliament, with questions and questions, by letters to the German Presidents and Prime Ministers. However, the JRC is also equipped with the experience of these long-term interventions. That is why he continues his action to claim German debts. We reveal all the indifference and complicity of the Greek Governments and we will take advantage of the opportunity to satisfy the fair request of our people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u20	Mr Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today cannot yet be described as historic. This title will be attributed to it by future generations, provided, of course, that what starts here today actually results in and yields fruit. Today's relationship with history is another. It has to do with the size of the responsibility that we assume against the Greeks, against our ancestors, but also in front of our children and grandchildren. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Today, then, it is a day of historical responsibility for the Greek Parliament. In respect for the gravity of what we are discussing, I will try to avoid sterile criticism. I will insist on a number of points which also define our final position as a Centro Association on this extremely important and serious issue of the war allowances that Germany owes us. Our responsibility therefore has two sides. One is to dismantle the shadows, rumours, inaccurateness, and above all the lies on this issue, and the other is to make sure that we are united. Only united as Greeks will we succeed in defeating our German machine, this modern German machine. Who is responsible and who dare to wonder whether our claims are valid? How did we reach the point of having our fellow citizens who believe that we have already abandoned the effort and that in the past there were some secret, supposedly, negotiations, during which Greece agreed to stop claiming what was rightfully its own? Who started dispersing the rumour that the Germans have already returned what we are owed to us? Why have we allowed them to be lost so many years? Ladies and gentlemen, our first victory in this fight for our fairness will be to roam together from this Chamber, to hear from all Greek citizens, wherever they are on earth, that Germany owes Greece that the Germans have not paid a single drachma or one euro for their crimes against the Greeks, that we will not accept for any reason any reason to allow the Germans to achieve with their economy what they did not achieve with their weapons the times when they consciously blooded humanity. With this economy that prospers at the expense of the rest of Europe, only because it is based on corruption and complexity, they cannot drown historical truth. And the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is this: After the end of World War II, we cut this country into pieces and imposed such sanctions, which would really make it impossible for them to regain their weapons one day, seeking to try and impose them for the third time on those who do not look like them. Since then we gave them money, we gave them workers, and we let them unite again. In short, we have given them everything they need so that they can again begin to arm themselves, once again, to build an army once again. And, indeed, all this with our own money and not just our permission, but our blessings. Germany is equipping itself, ladies and gentlemen, to assume that the allies are pressing it this time to do so. And while she does this, she does not take over her historic responsibilities. So the real question we have to answer is whether we will allow Greeks to forget the Germans' crimes at the same time as the Germans, beyond the European economy, are preparing to lead the European army. It is worthy that Greece is the only country to discuss years, today, seventy years after the German occupation of World War II and twenty-five years after the union of the two Germans, the issue of German debts. This shows our difficulty in dealing with our history and position in post-war Europe and, of course, in acting unitedly and effectively. The consensus of all the political forces in the country, despite the individual differences, is necessary prior to any debate on the issue of German debts. There are no micro-political manoeuvres or opposition. At all costs we must avoid repetitions and moves towards showcases and internal consumption, which, on the one hand, show a lack of political will to claim debts and, on the other hand, damage the national case, because they deprive the capital of seriousness which we must have as a country both vis-à-vis Germany and, more generally, the international scene. That is why the President of the Centroon Union, by letter to the leaders of the political parties, called for a spirit of constructive, cross-party cooperation on this important historical, political and moral issue. Without unity, ladies and gentlemen, we are undermining our objective. There is no doubt that Greece maintains in its entirety, against Germany, the right to claim and fully satisfy all claims, public and private, of all categories without distinction, such as war redress, private compensation and loan. Our demands have not been omitted. It is also true that Greece, with the acceptance of the aid of the Marshall Plan and in particular the signing of the 1953 London Agreement, postponed its anti-Germany claims until the final settlement of the German question. However, the Moscow Treaty of 1990 on the final settlement in relation to Germany, which involved the United States, the former Soviet Union, the United Kingdom and France, silently on the issue of German allowances. However, the counterparties of this Treaty, Moscow, could not commit third countries which did not participate, such as Greece, which retains its rights intact. Rightly five years after the Moscow Treaty, in 1995, our country through our ambassador to Germany submitted a financial communication to the German side on this matter. The Centro Association has said from the outset that it will support our country's actions leading to the negotiation with Germany or even the judicial claim of German debts. We do not, however, deprive ourselves of realism. We realise that we should change the conditions that would lead Germany to accept the negotiation. It is an objective of our foreign policy, but it needs further concerted action. We understand the challenges arising from any appeal to the only competent arbitration court in the 1953 London Convention, of which the major Western powers - the United States, the United Kingdom and France - have given up their claims for compensation and have taken the lead in the integration of Germany into the existing post-war architecture of Europe, avoiding the issue of compensation as Pandora's box. We also understand a number of issues, such as the failure to implement national court rulings due to German military court, according to decisions by the Greek Supreme Special Court, 2002 and the European Court of Human Rights, in 2012, or the question of the exact calculation of German debts, given that there are divergent views. For example, there are divergent views on the amount of the loan due, which requires a better scientific approach. There is, however, the law of the Greek demand and a multitude of favourable positions and arguments for Greece, which are essential, which we have at our disposal and which are dispersed in international case-law and can be exploited. The German arguments are not correct that much time has elapsed since the end of the war and that the level of bilateral relations and Germany's contribution, as well as its participation in the European Union, do not allow this issue to be raised. Ladies and gentlemen, the role of Germany within the European Union is not questioned. He's not in doubt. The European Union has, moreover, removed the prospect of wars within it by establishing a period of peace, stability and the protection of human rights, without precedent, an unprecedented move on the European continent. It is, however, a supreme matter of law and moral order that this dark war past be settled between partners and allies. The negligence of Greek claims for compensation is evident. In the same context, we believe that the Greek public debt cannot be confused with the issue of war redress. It is undeniable - and we must mention it - that the post-war economic recovery and development of Germany was based on the 1953 London Agreement on relief and deletion of Germany's debt, which was signed at the time by the war in Greece. It is equally undeniable that Community funds and their allocation are not regarded as contributions from one member country to another, but as single Community funds. It is therefore rejected that any German claims for assistance to Greece through the European Union's resources transfer mechanisms. The Centro Association has submitted its memorandum to the committee, with concrete proposals for our future actions. We have, firstly, recommended the establishment of a coordinating body to claim German debts. In this context, the Intergroup of Parliamentary Committee could continue to operate, or the committee proposed in the report to promote the proclamation or even better the Greek Office for War Criminals could be set up. This office, if reconstituted on an interministerial basis, could be updated and coordinated by various government or non-governmental bodies on matters beyond legal aspects. Regardless of the shapes, which will be chosen, we want to stress that it would be advisable not to recommend cross-covered shapes, but a flexible and effective shape, a quick shape. Secondly, we are recommending the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee - which, as I said before, we are asking for it to continue to function - to examine, in a separate report, a key issue: the presentation and commentation, the improvement of practices of other countries which have suffered similar problems. We do not have the luxury of being viewed as the backbone of the earth without taking into account the practice of other countries. This issue in the Committee's report is raised in fragmentary terms. The reference, for example, to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Italy in 2014 in the plan is important. But there must be a more systematic and comprehensive account of the positions of different countries. This will allow us to form appropriate alliances. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Thirdly and above all: the question of communication policy must be the subject of a separate report from the Intergroup Committee. The awareness of modern Greek society in the fair demands of post-war Hellenism is essential. However, this is a procedure which, in our view, is at an early stage. So the role of the Greek Parliament is central and must be complemented by the public administration, the intellectual educational institutions and, of course, the media. The greatest challenge is to raise awareness of international public opinion in Germany in particular, but also in other countries. It is difficult, but successful, to create a critical mass of people abroad that will create the necessary momentum for a gradual change of attitude to the Greek claim of compensation. The work that should be invoked by Greece in this direction is even greater and long-term. The German public opinion, ladies and gentlemen, largely ignores the extent of the disasters caused by the Nazi Occupation in Greece and the disproportionately large number of victims. So, for the reversal of this situation, the Greek Parliament and the Greek State will have to deal with the matter in a systematic way. The Athens Academy, the Greek educational institutions and research centres should therefore participate. Contacts with similar foreign institutions will give rise to increased dynamic and prestige to Greece's pursuits. Local government, as well as Greek and foreign organizations - those called before the committee and others - can make a decisive contribution to informing and raising awareness of this issue. For example, we mention organisations such as the Network of Tester Cities and Villages, the National Council for the Claims of Germany to Greece, the Pan-Hellenic Association of Lawyers for German Compensations, the Pan-Hellenic Association of National Resistance Fighters, and particular importance should be attached to civil society organisations abroad that are active. The means available to us must be our entire arsenal. And this arsenal can be no more than the so-called arsenal of cultural and educational diplomacy: organizing conferences, conferences, seminars, exhibitions, publication of books, production of films, documentaries, television shows, founding museums, awarding research scholarships. The Foundation of the Parliament could also be active in this respect with regard to financing. In view of the limited available state resources, public-private synergies should be encouraged, as well as all grants. Ladies and gentlemen, for one reason we must not give up on this. For just one reason: because our ancestors did not give up this effort in the mountains of Pindos, our ancestors did not abandon this effort in Ropel, in the Battle of Crete, during the Occupation in Distomos, Kalavrita, Kerashov, Kefalos, Anogia, Chortiatis, Cantano, Tumpaki, Agria, Aetto, Fteri. That's our debt, whether we're here or out of here, and we have to keep going and we have to win! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u22	Independent MP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u23	I have taken a line, Mr President, from my patriots, from the Kalavritans, who are watching from the benches. First of all, I would like to express the sincere thanks, the gratitude of all, of all the compatriots, to those people who have kept the candide lit all these years, despite the repetitions of the political system, the political parties and the thanks of the fellow Members who have participated in this committee, which has resulted in this report, which is valuable and which must be the Gospel for the further efforts and for the framework within which we are going to move. At the outset, however, I would like to convey the desire of all the struggling clubs, bodies, personalities, who have been talking about the necessity, from now on, of setting up a committee, Mr President of Parliament, to promote claims, which, of course, consist of MPs, judiciaries, inter-ethnicists, historians and legal scientists, as well as representatives of all organisations - of course and of the resistance organizations - the members of the Victims Associations and of the Network of Witness Cities and Villages. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said a lot and done little to date. I personally do not think I have done my duty. I have, however, sat down and counted a hundred and eighty-nine questions, many parliamentary interventions and countless public oral and written positions I have taken since 1989 when I first entered this Parliament. I did not measure the television broadcasts we have done here with the presidents, either in the broadcasts of mine or as guests. And today I interrupted my election campaign, which, as you know, I have been conducting with all my fellow Members here, that - at last - like a fist all together can claim, but above all we can win this battle, which many cowards, dissidents, have wanted to tell us that this is not happening. However, they did not dare today from this step forward to say the same thing they said when this committee started, which they said when this need had been declared. They said it's too late now. They called it! You've heard of them. You know them. Don't tell them by their name. But we are glad that, even now, we are all together. And I believe that until the end of the day no one will argue that the issue of German allowances to Greece is a major national issue. It's a question of morality and it's a question of justice. It's a question of restoring historical memory. It is a matter, at the end of the day, of a definitive and complete settlement of the outstandingities of a tragic and dark era between two countries, which are today friends and allies. And this adds even greater value to the need for this definitive settlement of the historical outstandingity, since at a time when Europe has a great need to prove that it continues to be an area of unity and fraternity of the peoples of Europe, it is not allowed to open up the wounds of the past. I am very pleased to see that in Germany there is a part of the political world that really understands this need and expresses the view that the mortgage loan should be repaid to Greece, along with the ransom paid for the release of the Jews of Thessaloniki from the forced works, seeking the creation of a special fund for the development of the Greek countryside, especially where there are our martyr places. And such a place, ladies and gentlemen, lies in my constituency. It is the Kalavrytas, who, last December, honoured the 75th anniversary of the great massacre on the hill of the Caucasus. There we all bruised once again one - all the names of the victims of that horrific crime against humanity. A crime, which, of course, was not the only one that happened in Greece from Nazism, and that is why memories always remain alive and require moral justice. And, unfortunately, there is no other way of moral justice than economic justice. I think I do not have to go into the legal arguments that exist and have been expressed many times and by people who are much more specific than me in these kinds of arguments, including the current President of the Republic, Prokopis Pavlopoulou, who has created a great and thorough spirit on the question of corrections. He's not the only one, of course. However, I think we should take into account both the position of the committee and Parliament, I repeat, the National Council for the Claiming of German Compensation and all other bodies and lawmakers, who underline the need for precise determination of compensation for individuals. It is necessary to stress again that the position of the National Board on Compensation is that the amount of the claim on the loan has been underestimated, that there is a need to provide a financial communication to the German Government, since almost twenty-four years have elapsed since the previous financial communication of 14 November 1995, that it is necessary to repeal Article 923 of the Code of Civil Procedure, but that any'salamisation' of the compensation is unacceptable, and that there is a need for the word to be deleted. The present President of the Pan-Hellenic Holocaust Victims Union, Vassilis Karkoulias, has expressed the view that the report - a conclusion must be supplemented by compensation to the victims. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we take the views of the above-mentioned bodies and our representatives seriously. I propose supplementing the resolution with the clear mention of the country's distinct requirements, namely the mortgage loan, State compensation, and compensation for victims of the horrors and their families. If we really believe that it is a national and historical debt to pay German allowances, we must not allow anything to be lost in general terms, which many times have shown that they are actually voiding this very claim. I feel very annoyed because decades have passed and our political system has never actually been able to stand up. I feel disturbed by the fact that even this current government, which presented the issue of German allowances as its flag, has allowed almost five more years to resurrect the issue now, at a time when there are many legitimate suspicions about the political and electoral feasibility of the initiative, which other Members from the Stephen of the House have demonstrated. A major national issue is wrong, and that is something that must not be allowed to happen, because it is like undermining our fairness, a law which, never forgetting it, is not enough to exist, but must be enforced. And it is precisely this law enforcement that depends on many factors. Of course, from the strength of the country, and also from our proper support for the law, and from the fact that we are not giving any cause and that we do not open windows for the escape of the German governments and the German state from their responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I close my position, expressing the wish that there should never be a war in our country again and that there should never be any other atrocities again, because financial compensation will never make up for losses and human suffering. But it is our duty towards history and the nation to do everything possible to restore history and to feel moral justice, even after so many years. I hope that we are the ones who will do so and do not move it once again as a loose end to the future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, today, in plenary session, we have to take a historical and real step forward. We have raised the question of the adjournment of the sitting to the President of Parliament and to the House, which we feel should not be held and we insist on that. It discusses the conclusion of the Intergroup on the claim of German debts, which has completed its work since July 2016. This is a procedure for which we can identify many omissions and responsibilities, such as the total lack of reference to the compensation of victims. However, at this juncture, this must not weaken the necessary national unity and the corresponding dynamics of the claim. Viannou Province. Burned villages, as I've known since I was a kid. Sixty-two witnesses in Heraklion, Sokaras, Gerger, Skourvoula, Borizia, Damasa, Marathos, Calesa, Tsaliki, Zakros, Tylisos, Stoa Makasi, Harakas, Lignite, Kamares, Magarari, Tubaki, Moires. All the provinces, plains, Monofachi, Malevizi, the whole Messara. In every inch of Crete, in every place in Greece, the Holocausts carried out throughout the territory of our country during the period of German occupation, declared historically and will continue to maintain internationally the determination of our people for resistance to all kinds of slavery and totalitarianism. We all today have to say that these crimes cannot be left unpunished and, more importantly, that the payment of compensation is an additional armoury to prevent them from happening again. Our country over time, despite the inconveniences which have created a sense of negotiating weakness, has never given up its unreserved rights, but which cannot be an alibi to any oligopoly. The question was raised for the first time in 1945 at the Conference on German Compensation in Paris and since then it has been up to 1966. Since then, both in the dictatorship and in the early years of post-multification, there has been a gap in action. The political decision taken by Andreas Papandreou in 1995 on the performance of a financial communication from Greece to the German Government was of decisive importance. With this diplomatic and legal action, the Greek Government, after having stated that it had not waived its claims for compensation and compensation, raised the question of the maturity of the conditions for opening negotiations and regulating the problem by paying debts. At the same time, at the same time at a practical level, the initiatives for judicial struggle and claims were strengthened, which resulted in important irrevocable judicial judgments, which, however, have not yet been implemented. The national responsible and patriotic attitude of the PASOK and others has, of course, continued consistently. In 2010, Prime Minister George Papandreou officially stated by this very step of the Greek Parliament that Greece has not resigned and has not given up its rights and obligations. Shortly thereafter, in 2012, the same government instructed the General Accounting Office of the State to draw up a detailed report, which accurately valued the amount of Greece's claims. In this very report, as well as in the respective efforts of the Legal Council of State, the services of the Ministry of Culture and the Bank of Greece, all the subsequent effort that led to the conclusion of the Intergroup Committee of the Parliament on the vindication of German debts and today's debate in plenary is documented. I must, of course, make a separate reference to the time-consuming and consistent effort of both the Associations of the Fighters and the martyred municipalities, but in particular the National Council for the Claiming of the debts of Germany to Greece, and I stress that its reservations regarding Greece's additional claims for similar debts in Germany and, in particular, the debts for the victims must be taken seriously into account and included in the final phase of the claim. The fight of civil society, but also of the state, has already created important conditions for resolving the issue. At the same time as the Greek parliament meets to take a historic decision in Germany on the initiative of parties, scientists and personalities, the subject is being brought into Parliament. However, attention is needed, because these proposals do not have the right to do so and to me they are historically and truly left over, especially in terms of the amount of compensation. However, this is a development that must be carefully and responsibly studied and exploited for the benefit of the country. Germany must accept, pay and immediately enter into negotiations with Greece in order to find a solution to the issue of German debts from the period of the Nazi occupation. The Greek state must take all the legal and diplomatic actions that will lead to a positive result, which will not only have an economic and historical impact. Our effort concerns, not only the very delayed material restoration of the huge disasters and the payment of compensation, but also the historical justice of the victims and of an entire people. It concerns a warning of history that will prevent any thought and possibility of totalitarianism in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. Mr. Synthrakis, from the JRC, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u27	Today we are discussing a very serious and timely request from our people, that of German allowances. Sadly, however, at a time when, in our view, it is a move of impression on the part of the government, which is primarily intended to raise the pre-election unjustified confrontation with the New Democracy and to disorientate the people together to secure their vote, while at the same time washing their anti-popular, barbaric policy. After three years of governing SYRIZA with the extreme right-wing party of ANELs and after three years of completing the conclusion of the conclusion of the intergroup parliamentary committee on the vindication of German debts, the government now remembered to bring it to Parliament for discussion. Apparently you were busy with other issues. You first had to carry out all the dirty work at the expense of the people, load it with taxes and raisins and empty it from wages and pensions, secure the profits and privileges of capital for the infamous fair development, agree to the bloody primary surpluses and poverty lasting for the people by 2060 and, of course, become the hunger of the war criminals of the Americans and NATO in the Mediterranean and the Balkans. Then you invest in the fragile strings and in the pain of a people waiting for and demanding justice from the plundering, the massacres and disasters suffered by fascist conquerors, the ancestors of fascist and criminal Golden Dawn, for whose trial you have never been able to convince anyone because integration has been unduly delayed for five years. It does not fit or deserve to be remembered of the executions of the province of Viannou, Candan, Anogei, Damasta, Ano Partos and many other dozens of the martyrial villages and cities of Crete and the whole country such a brutal insult. The advisability of the moment and the effort to disorientate the people, and without any positive ending content, is a desecration of the memory of hundreds of thousands of Greek patriots, men and women, children and old men who were slaughtered, executed, raped, broken, lost property, burned their homes, villages and cities throughout the country that literally witnessed by the Nazi fascist atrocious atrocities, the most criminal and despair of mankind has to show. No reference is made to the Commission's finding on the claim of German debts, nor has there been any government's commitment to claim the claims as a whole. It refers to an initiative to be taken by the House to draw up a draft national strategy on German debts, it refers to the financial communication, and to the pursuit of information for the international community. In fact, it confirms its reluctance to claim compensation. And whoever doesn't want to ferment, ten days or years, is sifting decades. However, in order to organise the fiasco and to set up intergroup committees on German allowances and the mortgage loan, far from the substance and without being bound to measures, a specific plan and timetables, they are very good. For the compensation to the victims and their relatives, the debts and compensation from Germany are considered to be private claims and are not offset by other claims from Greece against Germany. Therefore, in the event of transnational negotiations between Greece and Germany, care and control must be taken to ensure that, in the event of a claim, the claims for financial compensation of victims and their families are not circumvented. The Government is, in fact, backing Germany's refusal to pay the debts, which it considers to have expired, and seeks to alleviate, even if it is inactive, any initiative and action to claim corrections, whether they relate to the mortgage loan and the catastrophes in Greece or to the families who have been devastated in the holocaust in the towns and villages. It essentially concedes in how Germany tries to oppose the obligation to pay its debts for its crimes in Greece during World War II. The responsibility of the Greek Governments to date, the New Democracy and the PASOK Government and the SYRIZA Government in recent years is quite great. Up to now, seventy-four years after the collapse of fascism, no government has taken any substantial initiatives and no government has demanded full and complete satisfaction of the Greek demands. Only the Communist Party of Greece from the country's liberation until today with diverse activities in a legitimate period, in an illegal period and in joint action with the resistance organizations, the EIAA - Democratic Army of Greece, actively highlights the case of German allowances. The question of the JRC is not legal and procedural, although it also has such aspects. This is primarily a political issue. The European Union's provocative attitude to do what it did not see did not hear anything about murder shows how imperialistic it is, which in spite of the people's interests it serves, refusing to recognise the right request of our people for German allowances. Ladies and gentlemen, the history of Nazi Europe is full of examples where mass killing meant the display of power and force and was intended to blunt the permanent fear, the automation of terror as a basis for the absolute respect of the sovereign army, the race, as the criminal Nazi organization of the Golden Dawn does today. In the memory of our partners and rivals, all of the country's country's patriots who fell, tortured and remained disabled on the fronts of war, we fight until the final vindicator of the history of World War II, who attempt to equate fascism with socialism, communism, against the tolerance and support of the European Union, which gives reactive anti-communist regimes, such as Poland, Hungary, Ukraine and elsewhere, which forbid the action of Communist parties and their symbols, while tolerated and cover the destruction of resistance monuments, such as Beloganne, which just precedented the reactionary government of Poland and reward, honor the partners of the German nazis, thus strengthening the fascist parties, as in our country on Gold Dawn. We are inspired by the popular struggle and resistance, by EAM, ELAS, EPOON, the Democratic Army of Greece, from the millions of communists and other fighters around the world who have not hesitated to even give their lives. The Communist Party of Greece along with the EIA - Democratic Army of Greece will continue unequivocally, no matter what obstacles the governments, the European imperialists and capital are putting in place, to take initiatives for the final vindication of the victims and their families.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u29	It will use every means and means available to them to raise the question of claiming German allowances. The Group of the European People's Party has tabled its own proposal on this issue, as formulated by our rapporteur and member of the committee responsible, Diamantos Manolakou, which responds to the popular feeling, because it is his demand to meet the demand for full restoration. Our people have the right to claim compensation and redress at the same time as the fight against the anti-population policy of the government, the European Union of capital, against the rotten and barbaric capitalist system. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u30	Mrs Karakosta has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone and everyone on my side. I will recall on 10 March 2015, when I had the luck of my first speech as a Member in this Chamber dealing with German allowances and the establishment of this Intergroup Committee, in order to have this very exceptional event, about what happened in those times and what we really have to claim and how we can do it. So it acknowledges the consequences of World War II for Greece and its citizens, which were horrifying and irreparable. The third Reich continued without interruption from the first to the last day of the Occupation. I will mention a typical example where in my area there were ELASATEs killed in order to save the PPC plant at only five. So they continued their brutal and criminal action against the Greek people in Greece. The terror of hunger has gone through holocaust terrorism. A hundred holocausts, as we all know, have already been identified, cities and villages. They've gone through the terror of executions. They went through the organised robbery of our national wealth. They have completely destroyed the country and its infrastructures, undermining its development path. The damages that Greece claims and refer to the Intergroup's conclusion relate, first, to the war compensation for the material disasters, destruction, the snatching of infrastructure, military material, churches, dwellings, industries and so many others, secondly, to the war repair of the victims and their relatives, thirdly, to the repayment of the forced mortgage, fourthly, to the return of the stolen archaeological treasures. It follows from everything that Greece, too, has the first place among the states that have been mourning victims of this war. The proportion of the victims of the total population, according to the 1939 census, where it was seven million three hundred and thirty-five thousand, is 19.70%, which corresponds to five hundred and eighty-eighty and eighty-eighty. However, Germany does not take responsibility even today. He claims that the issue was closed in 1960, when he paid Greece 115 million marks. But we all know that payment was made so that Germany could get the release of Max Merten, a slayer of the Jews in Thessaloniki. The fact is that no Greek Government has asserted to date the German debts, with the exception of in 1995 the performance of a financial communication in Germany for the opening of negotiations. However, no Greek Government has given up on these fair claims, as the German side claims. On the contrary, the Greek claim remains legally strong because, first of all, since the occupation period, the III Reich had begun to repay the forced mortgage. So there's recognition. Secondly, in 1946 at the Paris Conference, a relatively small amount of compensation had been recognised and determined in relation to the size of the disasters in Greece. Thirdly, in 1953, with the London Agreement, the German debts frozen because of the priority given by the victorious forces to create a strong federal Germany, which would be an impediment to the expansion of the Soviet state. But under no circumstances has its debts been repaid. They were put inertly until the Peace Pact was signed between Germany and the victorious forces due to its division. In 1990, after its reunification, the so-called '2+4' Pact was signed between Germany, the United States, Russia, England and France, which covers the non-Contracting States, but which suffer from the war, such as Greece. Besides, crimes against humanity are not being recorded. That's what these have been characterized. Other forces are part of the Greek effort. A few days ago, Green Members, the Left and members of the Social Democratic Party of Germany signed a text, which refers to German responsibility for war and obligations vis-à-vis Greece, which calls, firstly, for the repayment of the forced mortgage, like us, of the return of the ransom paid to free Jews from coercive projects and the creation of a special fund for the sustainable development of the countryside and especially of the martyr villages. It's in the context of the dialogue. Also, a book - a weapon in Greece's fight for the moral, political and historical vindication of the issue of war redress is the stumbling block of German historians Carl Rubner entitled: "The debt of the German occupation's corrections in Greece and Europe", which was presented in Athens last February and is under the auspices of the Parliament. These texts are another weapon of our country, which will start claiming German debts at a legal, interparliamentary and political level. So today, when fascism raises its head again in Europe, Germany and all democratic Europe must recognise the resistance of the Greek people to fascism. It must recognise the absolute application of international law. German allowances find legal basis in the provisions of the Fourth Hague Convention, updated in 1946 by the judgment of the International Military Court of Nuremberg. Because without the predominance of international law there is also a risk of new burnt-outs. The defence of the rights of the victims of the German occupation serves not only the national laws of the Greeks, but also the democracy and culture of Europe. The fight against fascism doesn't fit halves and retreats. That is why all of us and all of us together in this struggle must be united. With all our little differences, we must be united. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and two teachers from the 1st High School of Alimos, the homeland of Thucydides. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stavros has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, the German compensation - corrections and the mortgage loan are important humanitarian, national, economic, social and historical considerations. That is why we all have to approach them with respect for historical truth, with due seriousness and, of course, always in the existing institutional framework. From 2012 to 2014 at the General Accounting Office of the State, we faced for the first time with responsibility, seriousness and procedurality both the question of the settlement of the archives relating to the periods of the First and Second World War, as well as the question of quantification of the claims of the Greek State by the German redress and the loan. We did this because we believed and believe that each state's fundamental debt is to keep the historical material and to document both the visibility of its positions and the claim. In my position, therefore, I will rely on the data and the work carried out on the matter in the Ministry of Finance, namely the General Accounting Office of the State, of which I was politically responsible for the period 2012-2014. Because this work is largely based on the report by the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on the claim of German debts which we are debating today. In September 2012, by decision of the then Deputy Minister of Finance, a working group of senior officials from the General Accounting Office of the State was set up on the initiative of the then Deputy Minister of Finance to investigate the archives of the Service concerning the First and Second World War and the recording, classification and protection of the relevant archive material. So we managed to pull data and data out of obscurity and obscurity for many decades. The process was not easy. There were considerable difficulties. The relevant archive material was not assembled in a single space. It was never classified. Nor, of course, has there been an attempt to digitize it to better protect it from time and damage. Also, there were individual files in other addresses and in other buildings. Finally, in March 2013, I repeat, for the first time the registration and classification of the archive material of the General Accounting Office of the State related to compensation. We're talking about material, consisting of seven hundred sixty, an envelope and a leather lot. This report was forwarded through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the then Minister of the Minister of State Venizelos, in order to carry out the legal processing, evaluation and calibration of the claims of the Greek State. Subsequently, in May 2014, the then Deputy Minister of Finance set up a Special Committee to determine the amount of the claims of the Greek State by the German redresss and the Land loan, and this was for the Legal Council of the State to formulate, as provided for in the Constitution and the legislation, a proposal to handle the case, due to its particular historical, political and legal interest. The Special Committee participated in the General Accounting Office of the State, Bank of Greece and DPRK. The work of the Committee was completed on December 30, 2014. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in the period 2012-2014, the General Accounting Office of the State completed a serious project in seriousness, responsibility and procedurality, away from communication globes, and successfully completed it. Evidence is that the intergroup report is based in particular on this work. That is why I would like to thank all the public officials who participated in the work of the committees. Today the issue of German allowances and mortgage loans remains open. This is an issue that we both have to approach with respect for the historical truth and I have listened to it seriously. Greece has never given up on its claims. We approach the issue with responsibility, morality and insight, as is appropriate in a serious state, such as Greece and a nation such as the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too. Evangelos Venizelos has the floor, and then the Secretary-General of the KKE will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate, like the other similar ones held in March 2015 and April 2013, is a declaration of national unity, a resurgence of historical memory and an expression of respect for international law. More specifically, it is a declaration of respect for the principle of non-recognition of crimes against humanity, a principle that also follows from which the legal foundation of Greek claims for the so-called war damages, war redresss, occupation loan, the foundation for the return of archaeological treasures - it is also newer and fuller - and the debate on the legal basis of claims they have, individuals. But if we want to be honest, and if we want to do our national duty in full, then we need a axis of our debate to be the truth and not the reproduction of stereotypes, not the repetition of myths. Today, Parliament is called upon to understand how difficult it is to manage the duplicate that has, on the one hand, easy words about internal consumption and on the other hand, on the other hand, the difficult acts that produce international political, legal and economic results. We are talking about things that are historically confirmed, undeniably, substantiated, but I do not imagine that this is the case, neither for the Greek Parliament nor for the relatives of the victims, nor for the current inhabitants of the historical and martyrdom sites of our country, nor for the entire Greek people who are the heir and successor of this memory. We need something more practical and something more specific, and we need to be honest and accurate with each other. The efforts made in the Intergroup and, of course, they are worthy of honor and respect for the assistance offered by both the General Accounting Office of the State and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with its services and records and, of course, the Legal Council of State and the representatives of the academic community, especially the representatives of International Law. This report, however, lacks full account of the actions of the Greek Governments, particularly since the reunification of Germany, especially since 1990, in order to prove that Greece has raised political and diplomatic issues, raises and maintains this issue alive. Strangely enough, reference to the finding is incomplete. I would like to remind you that in 1995 a private communication was carried out by the Greek Ambassador to the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the request of the then Minister of Foreign Affairs Carolo Papoulia and that is mentioned. But we haven't been going all of a sudden since 1995 in 2019. In 1998 the then Ambassador of Greece and then the Secretary General of the Republic's Presidency, Ambassador Eliano, reiterated this approach to the Director-General for Political Affairs of the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In 2000, the then President of the Hellenic Republic, Kostis Stefanopoulos, who was visiting the Federal Republic of Germany on an official visit, raised this issue and publicly to his counterpart at the time President Rau. And 2011 began a series of actions at the highest legal level, because Greece in July 2011, in the middle of the economic crisis, and while negotiating the second support programme and debt intervention, appealed to the International Court of Justice in the open trial of Italy against Germany by intervention in Italy, and this decision was adopted negatively for Italy and Greece in February 2012, on the days that were carried out by the most critical fiscal and financial rescue operation in the country. The economic crisis and the memoranda and decisive role of Germany have not prevented the then government from making this choice not of reasons, but of the maximum procedural act it could do at the level of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Then, during the period 2013-2015, during which I was - following the 2011-2012 period, which I was Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance - Vice-President and Minister of Foreign Affairs, this issue was officially raised to all German Foreign Ministers, to the late President of the German Republic, Mr Steinmayer, to Chancellor Merkel, to whom we put it together with Antonis Samaras, to the Minister of Finance, and, of course, to President Guook, when he was here on an official visit to Athens, he put it to him by the then Prime Minister and I as Vice-President and Minister of Foreign Affairs at the official meeting of the delegations. In 2014 we have developments in relation to documentation. We have the conclusion of the General Accounting Office of the State, we have the conclusion of the Law Council of the State, we have the further processing of the amounts from the General Accounting Office of the State. All of this - it is a pity that this is absent as a reference to the Intergroup report - has become the subject of a new financial communication given by the Greek Embassy in Berlin to the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the contents of the public declaration that I made at the time in Greece on 19 January 2015, as Minister of Foreign Affairs for these texts. What we were talking about in Greece was not about internal consumption, but it was diplomatically served by private communication to the German Government. This list should continue, but it cannot continue, because I honestly have not heard that political and diplomatic actions have been taken at government level since 25 January 2015 to this day, over the last four years. This issue has not been raised or, in any case, it has not been announced in the House that these actions have continued. So the vicious circle of the dual language must be broken. These are not issues, such as the military corrections and the memory of the victims of the Greek people, the memory of the Holocaust, which can be the subject of this micro-party practice of the dual language, the easy language for internal consumption and non-existent acts at international level. Now, then, more than two years after the conclusion of the report by the Intergroup, this is being introduced for discussion in plenary. She's welcome. The Treaty of Ambassadors has now entered into force. Now the outstanding instalment has been paid off from the returns of the profits of the Eurosystem central banks due to the ‘ALPHA’ and ‘SMT’ portfolios, which we had managed to get back on February 21, 2012. Now, then, diplomatic practice must continue, this issue must be raised in order to be kept under consultation, as provided for in International Law, as provided for in the 1953 International Court of Justice case-law on specific matters, even now, even after the Prespecies, and even after the infamous dose has been paid, even after the formal removal from the memorandum. While we saw how we dealt with these issues by not allowing any interconnection of foreign policy and national memory and dignity with the anguish for the economic rescue of the country, always having an interlocutor for all these issues because of its decisive role within the Eurozone. And now what are we gonna do? How do we resolve the practical issue of procedural actions? What does the outcome of the State Legal Council of the State tell us about handling cases? It tells us what we know, what we have said many times, that the case law of the International Court of Justice in The Hague respects state immunity. That said to us, rejecting our appeal and rejecting the Italian position, even though the Italian Constitutional Court insists. However, the Italian Constitutional Court, because it is a follower of the so-called 'Binary theory' in relation to relations between national and international law, insists and contradicts both the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice of the European Union. It's a fixed line. But our Supreme Special Court has said other than in 2002. And I did not see the Greek Minister of Justice of the last Governments Tsipras - Kammenos changing practice and providing the permission provided by the Code of Civil Procedure, in order to act as an enforcer, so that we can have a sense of reality and truth. Even in order to refer to this planned International Arbitration Court of the 1953 Convention, the composition of which we read it - we see the correlation between the arbitrators in this court - the consultation phase must be preceded. So, anyway, whatever procedural choice is made at some point, it is certain that these issues should be raised at political and diplomatic level at the highest level of the bond, at the level of the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, at the level of those who commit the country. I do not see that being the subject of today's debate. When the government speaks to us about what it has done or has not done in the last four, five years, almost and even now - called by the House that it will vote - I imagine, unanimously - the motion for a resolution, although there is no formal motion for a resolution, comes to the government to respond, it must respond to specific and serious things and not to the convenience of declarations of internal consumption. When we honour the Greek people and its struggles and the victims of Nazism and fascism, we must be specific and precise, because vagueness from one point to another becomes insulting to historical memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, too. He now has the floor for the Secretary-General of the JRC, and then the roll-call vote will take place. Here, Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, seventy-four years after the end of the Second World War and the great anti-fascist victory of the peoples are still pending Germany's debts in compensation and corrections and for the forced mortgage - robbery imposed on the occupied Greece and for the huge damages to the infrastructure caused by the German occupying armies, recognised by the Conference of Allies in Paris in December 1945 - January 1946, and for the compensation of victims of the horrors of the Nazi crimes, the hostages in the Nazi camps and the factories of the German monopolies, and for the return of the archaeological treasures of invaluable value and the treasures of cultural heritage robbed by the German occupying forces. All German governments refuse to pay these debts of billions of euros, money belonging to the Greek people, falsely suggesting that Germany has fulfilled its obligation to Greece. But, at the same time, we cannot fail to point out that it is huge and the responsibility of all the so-called Greek governments - and of the previous and current government of SYRIZA - because they have in fact never raised a question of genuine claiming German corrections, they have never taken all the necessary steps to carry out the fair request of the Greek people who paid for all this Nazi atrocity with torture, with camps of concentration, murders, holocausts with huge material destruction in state infrastructure, people's property. All Greek governments - the New Democracy and the PASOK - have put forward various unfounded excuses and pretexts, such as the fact that this is not the right time to raise the issue. The very same argument concerning alleged inappropriateness of the moment was raised by the SYRIZA Government. In fact, his responsibility, the responsibility of SYRIZA, is even greater, because while SYRIZA was in the opposition blamed the other governments for not claiming the German corrections, he made promises, making announcements that if it became a government, he will immediately claim all the German debts. They were - you see - the usual vulgar vulture promises in order to guard the votes of the Greek people and especially of the fighters of the EAM National Resistance and their families. Fighting their liberation and class struggles and their history, he as a so-called follower, strives to give an alibi to his miserable policy, which breaks the life and rights of the Greek people and youth, which involve them more and more deeply in dangerous imperialist plans, which has transformed Greece into an endless American base, washing away the killers of the people. The government has not dared to raise a point of order because it is a believer of the European Union. It is matched by the choices and interests of the ruling class, which does not want its relations to be disturbed with the European Union as a whole and in particular with Germany. There's another reason for getting credit from Chancellor, Germany, Ms. Merkel. The basic argument put forward by the Government that it was supposedly necessary to precede the documentation in order for the government to raise the question of corrections must be said to be a waste and also raised by the evil one. Since the 1990s, as well as the 2000s, there have been unspeakable evidence of both the necessary corrections and their level. There are reports from the Legal Board of the State and the General Accounting Office of the State. That is why we have always said, and today we say that claiming the corrections by Germany is purely a matter of political will alone. The SYRIZA Government may, of course, boast that it set up a Intergroup Committee on German allowances and corrections that has formed in 2016 a report on these debts, but three years now it has not brought the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee's report to Parliament and remembered it - quite accidentally! - again in the pre-election period, just forty days before the European elections and municipal and regional elections of 26 May, with the obvious aim of strengthening this whole earthly prosecuting alliance of scorpions that is setting it up and calling it a 'progressive alliance', allegedly against the extreme right and fascism. It is an alliance involving various remains from the New Democracy, PASOK, various politicians of politics, executives and former ministers who have been involved in the anti-grass work to Ambrosios' friends, the professed commemorator of fascism and the Golden Dawn, as we saw recently. We will say this once again: when you implement an anti-population policy in the name of progress, left and anti-fascism, then you are not a real fighter of fascism, and most of the time, you become a sponsor and feeder of it. And that's not an estimate of the JRC. It is a timeless lesson in history that has been confirmed many times in a very tragic way. However, the specific report we are debating is basically renewing the claim for compensation for Greek bells, because it is essentially an initiative that the House will take to prepare and implement a draft national strategy on German debts. And after demarcating, as he says, and devising the general and individual guidelines and objectives, he has to open a national dialogue after that. Anyone who does not want to ferment, in other words, ten days sifting, says our people and is quite right and is absolutely right. SYRIZA Government also mentions the setting up of a Scientific Committee by interethnic, academic, economists, lawyers, Greeks and foreigners to draw up a conclusion based on the 2012 Hague decision and the 2014 Constitutional Court ruling. As for the compensation to the victims and their relatives, Germany's debts and allowances to them are considered to be private claims and are not offset by other Greek claims against Germany. We are clearly saying that in the event of transnational negotiations between Greece and Germany, care must be taken and controlled so that, in the event of a claim, the claims for compensation for victims and their families are not circumvented. Of course, if we are not to be fooled, even the transnational negotiations between Greece and Germany on the corrections have not yet been decided. The government is essentially making the refusal of Germany to pay the debts, which Germany considers that the matter and the law have expired and seeks to alleviate until and inactive all initiatives and actions to redress the corrections have been taken, be they the mortgage loans and disasters in Greece, or the families who have been unleashed in the Holocausts and our villages. And the government thus collaborates in how Germany tries to oppose the obligation to pay its debts for its disasters and crimes in Greece during World War II, giving some "false" - mockery through the Greek-German Fund for the Future. This fund is a creation of the German Foreign Ministry, as we all know, in order to finance concrete actions in martial cities and villages. They say that Germany and Greece need to work together their common history of the last two hundred years, with a view to a common Greek-German historical memory and consciousness of the Nazi war crimes committed in Greece. They're planning various scientific symposia, research programs for this purpose. At the same time, the German state also set up a Greek-German Youth Foundation which is funded with the equal participation of the two countries. Let's see some indicative actions of the Hellenic German Fund for the Future, which also show the purposes of its actions: Thematic journey for young people and youth representatives from testamental municipalities costing 46 thousand euros. Theme trip for factors from the cost of culture of 33 thousand euros and something euros. Concerts with songs for the cut Arta cost of 33 thousand euros. Modernise Kalavryon Ski Centre cost 31 thousand euros. From the Friedrich Ebert Foundation a report on the historical political assessment of resistance against the Greek military dictatorship 1967-1974, costing 100 thousand euros. These actions, however, do not only seek to bury the actual claim of German compensation. Another thing is being done: rewriting history in the measures of imperialism, revising, distorting history, in order to better serve the interests of the whole European Union and especially of Germany. Apart from the Greek-German Fund for the Future, a German union has recently appeared, which acts to save the German state from the war redress - compensation. It calls itself "Respect for Greece". As they themselves say, they are active in Greece in the area of refugee support, climate protection and self-help groups. They are MPs of the SPD, of Die Lienke, of the German Greens, of various teachers, artists and intellectuals. All of them are friends, likes of SYRIZA, social democrats and left-wings, supposedly or may well, imaginaries of the anti-grass Memorials, the well-known Eurostandardism, the interventions and manipulation of the peoples, who hand over the neoliberals and the far-rights bleed the peoples of Europe, with the Greek people one of the biggest victims, at least in the last decade, so that we don't go before. And indeed, all of these make a call called "German responsibility for war and obligations towards Greece". Each person, on the basis of what they say about Germany's obligations from the war, would expect, at least, their support for the reparations for compensation for several billion euros, because the Intergroup Committee of Parliament, in its conclusion, calculates 309,5 billion for the Nazi occupation and reaches about 400 billion with the debts for the individual victims on a case-by-case basis. All these, however, have only been placed to unleash the German state from its enormous obligations and debts to Greece. Let's hope not in collaboration with SYRIZA, because we're waiting for everything from you now. For it, therefore, the most famous German responsibility for the war and the obligations towards Greece, which these Philadelphia Germans are talking about, further explains us and suggests that corrections and compensation be paid to only 3% of what is the conclusion of the Intergroup that you are bringing today for approval. And these should be given, as they say, for the establishment of a fund for the sustainable development of the countryside, for the forced mortgage, for the ransom payments paid for the Jews of Thessaloniki from the coercive projects. They're such boxers! And this is about some here, through the SYRIZA you're laughing at. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC, the blood donor, the instructor, the mind and soul of our people's struggles and youths in the Nazi occupation, which through the Hellenic Parliament and the European Parliament, played a winner against the fascist hordes, demonstrated in time and continues to show a variety of the issue of claiming compensation and corrections from Germany, with multiple multi-formal interventions in the Greek Parliament and the European Parliament, by letters to the Presidents and Chancellors of Germany, by a joint letter from the Euro-Municipal Group and the Pan-Hellenic Association of National Resistance to the European Union Summit and the permanent representations of the Member States - the President of the European Parliament and the embasssies of the European Union in Greece, with a common reference to the EIA - Democratic Army of Greece. The SYRIZA Government refused to support them. The European Parliament and the European Union, which has proved themselves to be against the people's interests, have been against the fair claims of our people by Germany of war redress. It is characteristic that the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, replied to the letter from the European Parliamentary Group of the JRC to the Commission that the question of claiming military compensation and compensation from Germany does not fall within the competence of the European Union. The European Parliament's Committee on Petitions also replied. The political groups of the European Parliament, the People's Party of Social Democrats and the Liberals, in which the MEPs of the New Democracy, the PASOK, have participated - the Social Democrats in fact recently became a co-legislator, and Mr Tsipras has been opposed to the fair demands of our people on the war compensation and redress from the war disasters and the crimes of Nazis, the occupying forces. All this proves something else very important, that fascism with the flag and supposed values of the European Union that you all defend in here cannot be effectively fought. Because it is the European Union that took the lead in rewriteting history, abolishing May 9 as a day of anti-fascist victory for the peoples. It is the European Union that has made anti-communism and the theory of both extremes official ideology of the European Union. It is the European Union that makes backs to reactionary governments in a number of countries to criminalise communist parties, communist symbols and communist ideology, at the same time setting up statues for the action of the SS in the former socialist countries of Central and Eastern Europe. It is the European Union that supports directly criminal Nazi groups of the Golden Dawn type to promote its geopolitical interests, as it did in Ukraine, as it did in the Baltic countries together with NATO and the United States. And, of course, much more that has not been done now in conditions of the far right of rise, but has unfortunately been going on for decades, proving how false, how misleading it is that SYRIZA says, that the European Union supposedly has been outdated and can even be corrected by demonstrating why the imperialists of the imperialist European Union cannot be real opponents of the Acro-right uterus and fascism. In the face of the elections, our people can, of course, draw political conclusions on the reactionary, anti-grassroots character of the European Union, which in every way are trying and struggling, both by the SYRIZA Government and the other parties, and by the negative position of the European Union, to draw conclusions to this law on the request of our people, so that Germany can finally pay the war redresss. The issue of German allowances and corrections must, in our view, be a criterion for voting against the European Union and the parties supporting it. The JRC is, however, mainly aimed at the people of the peoples, especially the fighters of the EAM National Resistance, the Democratic Army, the political refugees, their offspring, their families. Calls for coexistence in claiming German war damages and corrections. To strengthen the JRC very decisively, which is the only party that presents and claims by all appropriate means and calls on the people to take action to claim all German debts to Greece. The JRC is the only true enemy of the imperialist European Union, which has been such since its birth. It consistently fights against its directions, is fighting for the condemnation of the European Union of poverty, unemployment and wars. With strong JRC, we can even more strengthen the popular claiming struggle for German compensation and corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-five students and students and seven educational attendants from the Municipal School of Kolymbari Chania and the Municipal School of Agialis Tholari Amorgos. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, our rapporteur, but also fellow Members from the Democratic Independence, have called for the heavy and historic importance of today's debate not to interrupt the work of this House in order to make a roll-call vote, whatever it may be. In fact, you are saying that the plenary has decided to vote. The plenary is here and could decide not to be and be postponed for tomorrow. After that, following the refusal of the Bureau to accept our proposal, we will not be taking part in the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK An application has been submitted for the roll-call vote of New Democracy Members on Ministerial Amendment 2095/69 of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Greek Development Bank and the attraction of strategic investments and other provisions’, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u43	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Constantine Katsafandos. Here you go. Mr. Blacky Voridis. Here you go. Mr Nikolaos - Georgios Dendias. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Tsiaras. Here you go. Mr. Panagiotis Mitatakis. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Giulekas. Here you go. Mr. George Karasmanis. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Tasoulas. Here you go. Mr. Dimitrios Stamattis. Here you go. Mr. Apostle Vessiropoulos. Here you go. Mr Anastasios (Tasos) Here you go. Mr. Savvas Anastasiades. Here you go. Mr. George Vlach. Here you go. Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis. Here you go. Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. An electronic roll-call vote will be held on the Ministerial Amendment number 2095 and a special number 69 of the bill. We would remind you that, after you have registered your vote, you have the opportunity to check it or even to revise it until the end of the vote. For any further questions, please contact the Bureau, so that the officials concerned can assist you. We also remind the rapporteurs and the special speakers of the draft law to remain after the roll-call vote to vote on the farewell article and the whole draft law. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u45	I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there have been letters from colleagues in the Bureau, Mr. Theanos Fotou, Mr. Marios Katsi, Mr. Dimitrios Gakis, Mr. Olgas Gerovasilis, Mr. Paul Paulakis and Mr. Nektarios Santoriniou, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote 'yes'. Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, Mr Georgios Kasapidis, Mr Georgios Vagonas, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, Mr Annas - Michelle Asmakopoulou and Mr Theodorou Karaoglou, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote 'no'. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u47	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "Electronics VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-three students and students and four educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Chania and the Municipal School of Niatas Agios Dimitrios Lakonia. [[CHANGING PAGE]] The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the electronic roll-call vote on the Ministerial Amendment number 2095 and a special number 69. A total of 246 Members voted. In favour of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 145 Members. On the amendment, i.e. 'HO', 98 Members voted. 'PARON' were adopted by 3 MPs. The Ministerial Amendment No 2095, and a special 69, has therefore been accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the vote of the nominated article and of the entire draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Greek Development Bank and the attraction of strategic investments and other provisions". This vote will only be taken by the rapporteurs and speakers in the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u50	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u51	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u52	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u53	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u54	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u55	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u56	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Greek Development Bank and the attraction of strategic investments and other provisions" was accepted in principle and in the articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u57	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u58	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u59	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u60	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u61	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u62	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Greek Development Bank and the attraction of strategic investments and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles and the whole principle, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u64	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming back to our debate. I would ask Mr Vardakis to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. If some - fortunately few - of the members of the Officerial Response were to be bothered to read the report, they would not be right today to speak opposition to such a serious issue and to speak against it really without substance. Yes, we have been late, ladies and gentlemen, for two and a half years. We did not, however, accuse you of delaying seventy years. I sincerely want to say, through the depths of my soul, that we must finally manage to reach agreement on at least national issues. And today's issue is a national issue. Surely that's the only way we can take steps forward. Otherwise, the Greek people will be lost. Ladies and gentlemen, selective guests - I see that there are a lot of people here today who have really been unselfish all these years have tried and achieved results on the issue of German allowances - it is really a special moment today. We feel the debt of the promise to fight for memory, vindication and vindication of our ancestors. This promise is not only a commitment of our Government in 2015, it is also a promise for all of us who were born in the joyful villages of the Greek Holocaust and we were raised by those who felt on their side and in their soul the atrocity of Nazism. It is a promise and a debt of life for not only our ancestors, but also for our children, because this cycle of Germany's cynical refusal to redress and those due to our country must be closed not only as a debt in the past, but as a starting point for the future. In this struggle for vindication there is no choice but to defeat memory against attempts for oblivion. For those who want to revise the crimes, the Holocaust and the Nazi atrocities, the Nazi atrocities that our country, Crete, like the whole country, has known very well, have been dangerously exposed. The heroic resistance of the people in the Battle of Crete caused the conqueror's beatings, as a retaliation, as early as June 1941, the executions of the civilians began from Contomari and Cantanos. They continued throughout the Occupation in Alicianos, Paleochora, the villages of the Centre, in Rethymnon, the villages of Vianno, Ierapetra, Anogia, Messara, Monofachi, Asterousia, the plain. Crete is to the end of a testimonial. During the occupation, entire areas were burned, leveled, declared ‘dead zones’. Villages, cities and properties were destroyed and looted. Families are gone. Sick, paralysed, women and children were tortured and executed. Thousands of children orphans and thousands of happy and black - dressed mothers remained to rebuild the ruins left behind by World War II. Mandatory work, forces were imposed as a means of collective punishment, oppression and humiliation of residents. As recorded in the Kazantzakis report, it is appallingly all that they committed against the Cretan people because they had the courage to fight them when they came to take their place and deprive him of his freedom. No one is now entitled to ignore the unprecedented suffering suffered by the Greek people during the Occupation. Terrorism of hunger, mass executions, daily torture, the snatching of wealth and the effort of national segregation are part of an organised genocide plan that has served consistently, but without success, the Third Reich. We have delayed, ladies and gentlemen, and this is why today is a historic day, since the conclusion of an international debate and a claim on a transnational, interparliamentary and legal level will be launched. Despite what has been said in recent years during the work of the intergroup and as recorded in the conclusion, it has not emerged from anywhere that our country has resigned from its claims, but that they have not been abandoned or weakened, despite what the German side maintains or supported on a regulated political and legal point of view. Furthermore, according to the 1907 Hague Treaty, there is no limitation of claims based on the international civil liability of the State in question. Greece's claim relates to claims arising from the two World Wars and are categorised as follows: War compensation for material disasters and leaks, war redress for victims and their relatives, repayment of the mortgage, reimbursement of the stolen archaeological treasures and church relics. The consequences of World War II for Greece and for the citizens have been horrifying and irreparable. Greece has the first place among the states that have been bewildered by war. I won't tell the numbers. The Rose, Mitafidis, told them. I would like to say, however, that this figure in Greece corresponds to 19.70% in terms of losses, at the same time that in France it amounted to 2.65% in the Netherlands, 2.50% in Belgium, 2.24%. This figure corresponds to five hundred and fifty - eight thousand deceased and eight hundred eighty thousand disabled, a total of one million four hundred and thirty - eight thousand victims. Our country must exercise the political and diplomatic pressure it needs to bring Germany to the negotiating table. The vote on the conclusion of the Intergroup and the reconstitution of the War Crimes Office are the first steps to exercise this pressure. The Greek Parliament must vote, in its overwhelming majority, on the conclusion of the committee to open up the way for redress, compensation and justice. The conclusion is the self-evident step, which has so far not taken place, since it sets the strategy for vindicating claims through the Greek Parliament. This was our moral, historical and political duty, which is now taking place. Mr President, allow me to present in the minutes the decision of the City Council of Vianno, which declared Ludwig Tsakaro and Nina Lage, a couple of German citizens who paid EUR 875 each in favour of the Nafplio Culture Portal, which, according to their calculations, has to be paid by every German citizen in respect of the compulsory loan to our country. The act of these people has a special symbolism, which puts their country's political leadership ahead of its responsibilities and debt. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Vardakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today in this Chamber we must prove - not all of us - that, despite our mistakes and our omissions, we are taking on our debt to all those who have been sacrificed, to all those who even today are not asking for punishment, but justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u66	The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Sias Anagnostopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Mr President of the Greek Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the intergroup on the conclusion that it has prepared, a finding that is well established, fully documented, which is the road axis, the road indicator, for the establishment of a national collective strategy. I would like to thank all the representatives of the unions and associations who are here today near us from the martyr cities and villages, the people who have claimed for so many years the debts Germany has owed to Greece. But I want to start with something. One day, which is indeed - and on the basis of the conclusions of the Houseary Committee - one day when we need to think about how it will be, how this national strategy is to be established, it tends to develop into one another's categories of what one has done and what one has not done. To clarify things a little - because they have been heard before some which do not apply - I would like to say the following: Our Government, as early as March 2015, has raised at the most official and at the highest level the issue of the repayment of the loan, the debts, in general, of Germany to Greece. It was March 2015 when the Prime Minister visited Chancellor Merkel in Berlin. I refer to the joint press conference then of the Prime Minister and Chancellor. I would also like to remind you that since 2016 - if I am not wrong - the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, by order of the then Minister Nikos Kotzias, has defined the collection of all the archive material in the historical archive of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is numbered on several pages - on hundreds of pages, I would say - and which will be published directly. I would like to remind you, however, that at a high level, at a visit by the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, to his counterpart, then the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and today the President of Germany, Steinmayer, has also raised the matter. I will not refer to so many statements by the President of the Republic, the statements and interventions by the President of the Greek Parliament, but I will recall again that, in January 2019, the Prime Minister, on the official visit of Chancellor here, raised the matter again, saying 'the indiscriminate claims of the Greek state' at the joint press conference. I can also present it here in the House. I do not want to ask Mr Venizelos, but, if this is the case, it is good to know, it is good to testify when it was made by the same private communication in January 2015 in Germany. Because we have all the material in the State Department's archives...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u68	He didn't say in 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u69	Radical communication said, I remember it very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u70	1995. Don't get confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u71	No, Mrs. Vulge. He said January 2015. In 1995, there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u72	You're confusing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u73	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Venizelos said 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u75	He said 2015, just before he fell...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u76	What 2015? You were government!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u77	But that's what we wondered, Mrs. Vulture! If there is, it is powerful paper for our country. We know the one and only financial communication that took place in 1995. So we do not want to go into such a confrontation, who did what, because we could say that for some years nothing has happened or that action has been hypotonic. We want this step of the House to declare in the most unequivocal way that there has been no Greek government to date - except for the sad parenthesis of the junta - which has been renounced by the Greek state. This must be heard in all directions. Secondly, in either low or medium or high, sometimes thicker and sometimes more sparse, the Greek governments claimed these debts that the German state has. What we must also say is that in recent years there has been work. I, too, will mention and highlight the work done by Mr Stagioras, which, I think, is also the conclusion of the intergroup, but also the work that has been done at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the enormous work that this House has done and which is tabling this conclusion to us. These are our powerful weapons, which we must use and not sterile controversy. But there is another point to which I wish to reply and which concerns the Communist Party of Greece. I will not now go into the controversy on a thousand other issues. This is the first time, however, that we have another weapon in our hands as Greece and that we must use. For the first time on the German side there is an autonomous movement of German citizens, who are important personalities of German politics, intellectual, artistic life and who enter the side of Greece. Is that worth it? It is of enormous value and, if I have time below, I will say two things more. Does it matter that a party, like Die Linke, is firmly in favour of Greece's claims? It's very important. There are some other parties. Not systemically, but there are. And it's important for a reason. Germany has to date formally insisted that there is no question. So we in this work that we are doing today - and that is where we need to focus - first of all want to convince Germany - and I will say below how - but also the European and international community that there is a question and that the issue is open in all respects, moral, political, legal, etc. So these are crucial issues, which we must have in mind, so that we do not lose ourselves in things that do not matter. What are German debts? You will allow me very briefly to make this clear. It is one of our great arguments now that we have and all thanks to the conclusion of the intergroup. First, the Land loan. Forced loan, forced loan, not provided for by any international agreement, or by the Hague Treaty, with any interpretation. And the Nuremberg interpretation later comes to say that a mortgage, which is on certain limits allowed by International Law, is only what is for the occupying forces and for the period of occupation. The mortgage loan imposed on Greece was forced and was a nazi mechanism to neutralise the country. We know that it has not only been used for the occupying forces here, but it has also been used for the German army, the Nazi army in general, so it is a loan that is not mentioned, so it is claimable. Secondly, German corrections. The corrections for everything that the Nazi power has committed here in Greece against infrastructure, against structures, for everything that has impoverished the state and society itself. I should also like to point out that the consequences of the mortgage loan were the hunger and death of so many people, that the country has been deprived of the basic resources so that society can survive all this time. Finally, compensation for the victims, for all these thousands of victims from the martial villages, cities, etc., the victims of the war, from the Occupation, during the Occupation. All of these were mechanisms of Nazi power to exterminate a country. And I say this, because the nazis themselves, as early as 1943, admit that they have been unbearable about what they imposed on the country. They recognize the loan themselves and that it must be repaid. So that is not a citation, so that is important. They themselves admit that this country paid too much throughout this period of Occupation. A lot of others have admitted. I would also like to point out that in this unmovable position in Germany, in which there are some cracks, it is also good to hear the phrase Helmut Schmitt in 2015, when he answered a journalist's question, a television channel, which asked him about the corrections, etc., of the German debts to Greece, and said that "it is not enough for Germany to say that the matter has been closed, it must also be agreed for Greece". It's, I think, the first base to start someone. One cannot say unilaterally that a matter has been closed and from there on there there is no possibility of claiming anything like that. On the other hand, we have international agreements. It has been heard by many that the Greek state has done nothing for seventy years and all that. In order to be consistent and, at least in my view, a national strategy is being drawn up here today and we need to know a few things, I would like to say that by 1990 the peace treaty was suspended, that is, because the two Germans were not united, etc. Since 1990, the famous '2+4' agreement - Soviet Union at the time, the United States, England, France and the two Germans - has signed peace, but this does not bind Greece under no circumstances that it has any claims. After all, Greece did not sign. Greece has merely recognised the CSCE Declaration. So there is absolutely no signature or commitment from Greece that it has been renounced in this agreement, the '2+4' Treaty, any claim it has. So the problem of stimulation actually starts from 1990 onwards. There have been transnational agreements between Greece and Germany since 1960. They did not concern the loan, they did not relate to the adjustments, i.e. they did not relate to the State debts. It was about compensation to private individuals, victims of nazis, some, which were minimal and all the money paid by Germany. And I say that it was very little - and here I am going to go into another matter with my little time - because, if I am not mistaken, 114 million were given when in the Netherlands, which did not have one inch of the victims of Greece, 400 million were given. I'm reluctant to say that if I'm wrong with numbers. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Here, then, is a matter with the German people and the German Government. We are friends and allies, and we must not forget that. And I say we must not forget that, because we do not raise a question of German debts to incriminate as an enemy of another people, the German people. That's barely the other way around. We do not want this Europe to regenerate monsters. And here is the irony of history, when a Nazi party - organization comes here and moves the finger on what the Greek state has done for German corrections, when its Chief swears in the name of Hitler. Because that's what we're talking about. So we don't want to make enemies. We simply want to call on the democratic people of Germany to recognise. Because recognition, memory is a painful process. Memory is not an anniversary event in the Kalavrita, the anniversary, the Distomo, Cantano, the Vianno - not to list all the sites. It is a painful process and it means initiative and by the one whose story has such big black destructive holes. We therefore call on the German people to assume their democratic responsibility towards their history and towards the history of Europe, to consent, to accept what has been done. Why, you know what? When such wounds remain, such wounds, which are not confessed, are not discussed, they always leave holes to uncover monsters, as we see now. The economic crisis has shown directly how many stereotypes undone and how easily these stereotypes are being undone when such things have not been solved. Because Greece is not yet guaranteed in the consciousness of the European peoples and especially of the German how much it paid for democracy and freedom in this Europe. Because for me the most important thing is to become a conscience. We don't beg. We're not asking for restoration. Watch the terminology. We demand compensation, corrections and the mortgage loan as a tribute that this country, this people, paid with their blood, was completely destroyed for democracy in Europe. Only in this way can democracy be founded. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Not looking towards the future and putting stones in the past, but when we light up the past with all the lights, we go further. It is therefore important for us to mobilise the democratic public opinion of Germany, as is the case for all of Europe. And I'm saying that because we had an unfortunate moment. Because Mr Venizelos said that we have not formally put it, even I, when I was then Deputy Minister of Education, had put it in my counterpart, because it had happened before the visit to her Ministry, to pass through the Historical Museum of Germany - a very nice museum - which had a report on what happened in World War II. For a year this report has been working. Do you know which country he was away from, entirely? Greece, which I do not know if it paid the highest price in this battle, paid one of the greatest taxes on blood and destruction in this battle. So it's important. So I don't take too much time from now on as far as the State Department is concerned? Transnational agreements, transnational negotiations. I believe that Greece has the weapons to negotiate, so that the debts at all levels - at what I said, occupation, compensation, corrections - can be accepted by Germany, and that there is this moral, political, economic problem. I won't say it's just moral. It is also economic, because the people must understand at every stage of our history that history has materiality. It's not just something that's over, it's done once and for all. It's a disaster, and this disaster is a burden on us all. So we know what we're doing from here. So transnational negotiations that will bring about the problem. Because now, over the last few years, we have been doing a coordinated and collective job. Transnational negotiations. Information to the German public. This first movement of citizens created in Germany is very important. Die Linke is very important that it is in this direction. Information. Information in any way. The Commission at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will coordinate all the actions taken on the Greek side and beyond what steps need to be taken at international level. I believe we will succeed, because we have the right to history with us and we have something else very important: at this time in Europe the great battle between democracy and the monsters who are trying to come back to the surface is being played. That is why we have to win, not only as Greeks, but as Europeans, the European peoples and the states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Katameros has the floor from SYRIZA. Mrs Vulture will follow, and then the Minister for Justice, Mr Kalogerou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the Dodecanese were not freed together with the rest of the country. Our liberation took place in '47, and perhaps this was a reason why, in all this research, the Dodecanese has not been included. You know, we had a German occupation, beyond the Italian and all the others, and at the end the English left in '47. There have been terrible atrocities. We've also had victims and disasters. During the committee meeting I tried to raise the matter, but it was not possible, objectively, to make an investigation to include these disasters in the report. As many have said, the subject of the report we are discussing today, the demands of the Greek state, are for the war compensation and material disasters and leakages, for the war repairs, for the repayment of the mortgage, for the return of the stolen archaeological treasures. Why do I repeat them, even soon? I repeat them to stress that they are claims to restore material damage. In fact, there are various figures - thirty-five billion, thirty-five billion, five hundred billion - even though a high-level scientific approach is being made to determining the amounts. There are several very well documented scenarios. The committee has done its work very well. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, whether I am cutting down the level or I am out of the question if I express my concern. What's my concern? Mr President, I cannot imagine that tonight I will vote with the conquesters, the Germans, that together we must claim German compensation. And why am I saying that? You heard them here. They came and said that not only do they agree that we need to demand compensation, but they're moving the finger because we're late and why we're not as dynamic as we should be. Does this report, Mr President and ladies and gentlemen, need to supplement a paragraph, even with a few words, or a resolution that says that we should never have any more fascism? Should we show his dimension on the occasion of this? We do well to claim compensation by every possible judicial means. This was said during the committee, which spoke very well about it. We're not awkward. We are not going to say 'you know, you have made us victims and give us a recompense to finish'. It is not a matter for the environment, to say 'the polluter pays and ends'. How are violence, deaths, atrocities, disasters costed and valued money? Are these compensated materials? I cannot, Mr President, vote for the evening with those who hold the flag of the German conquerors today and have them here in this House. Take it! [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Kamaeros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If you go online, you'll see too much of that. I can't be with them. I can't accept it. We must raise our voices through this process and not make it a memorial of claims, as we have been told. We need to make it fight and co-operation and co-existence, so that we never have fascism anymore. That's what I wanted to stay on, because for me that's the gentleman. I repeat, if I'm out of the question, forgive me. This whole story of strengthening the extreme right is at times trying to deal with it. And there are several theories. The main of these is that anti-population policy has the extreme right. We all agree on that. Of course, anti-grass policy has the extreme right. But why? How does the far right pass through the world into the people? It passes like an antisystemic force. That's what we're responsible for. Shouldn't we discuss and see what we're doing about it? What is the antisystemic force? They are the ones who are against the rights of workers, the eighteen, and all that we have seen, and so on.Huh? Is it an antisystemic force that stimulates violence as the main system of force enforcement? Is that the antisystemic force? We know that each system is based precisely on enforcing its power through its power. Are the antisystemic ones who want to dismantle the House? It's clearly called it. That's why they come here and perform. Are those antisystemic people who want to dissolve the House? And with what to replace it? By force! They're suggesting nothing but violence. Are they against the system? Aren't we supposed to talk about this? Of course, we understand at this point how much damage they do - we do not say it - those who are trying to approach, making micro-policy, their views and adopting them many times. Why are they taking over? And they don't hide it. If you see, all of their literature - much earlier, now they're trying to cover it under the title "nationalism" - they're talking about hatred, the superiority of the race, about the disappearance of the different. Until murder, we have. They say 'through violence we will impose our views'. Do you know what sadness, fellow Members and colleagues are? That's what's going on in school. I don't know if you've been worried about what's going on in school, even in elementary class. When we see teachers taking the lead in such extreme right-wing events, we wonder: These people what they teach to children? They teach solidarity? Or do they teach violence? They rise up so they don't accept refugees. They're to blame for the kids. What are they? What do children teach? So we are going to face the phenomenon of fascism, through war against violence, against those who defend, to hate, against the hunting of the stranger. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, since the speaking time is over. I would say that the greatest price we have to pay to the victims today and the greatest claims we can make against these atrocities and the disasters that have taken place is to agree that we do not want - and do what is possible - ever fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u80	Mrs Vulture has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is indeed national. I will speak today and with the weight I feel by the fact that the last signature in a text put by my father was that under the text of the sixty-six resistances that were then written as a letter to Mr Soible, in December 2009, at the initiative of Manolis Glezou, which I do not see today among you. I do not know whether there is a letter from him, a message from him, about today's meeting. As I have also not heard SYRIZA's colleagues mention it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u82	Our rapporteur spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u83	Only your rapporteur spoke once. So far, you've forgotten him while he's a protagonist. I heard the Minister. It is not disputed that Greece never gave up its claims. You, as opposition, questioned it when we were in the government. That's what this debate is about. What is currently in doubt is your political will. And there is an answer to the question: Why so long and so suspicious a delay? Why now is this debate coming here - that is what we are asking - after five years of delay and in no way neutral, but pro-election? As we said, the work done by our government was systematic. It started in 2012. We did all the work in the General Accounting Office of the State and in the Legal Council of State. We created the first committee in 2014. And if not you, but your partner, until recently called us "German gypsies" and "Cholakoglu". Since then, the SYRIZA - ANEL government has caused all delays. The first committee did not carry out its work because you caused elections. That was your first delay. Then rebuild a new committee, which relaunched meetings, meetings with the same issues, while the work was almost complete. You've had new meetings. You went to find a finding on July 15, 2015. But then you did your heroic and referendums. That committee goes too. You went for December 30, 2015. We are going to the third delay, because then you have had elections. And at the end you rebuild another third committee. You did three committees, because you didn't get the first one. You should have made your own and spent the years. We have a new committee, Tuesday, and again manoeuvre new deadlines for finding, again manoeuvre new meetings, again manoeuvre even new deadlines and so we arrived in July 2016. That's what we're talking about. Three years late, not two. The delay, in my opinion, is also unjustified and suspicious. The argument we heard from the President of this House today is that the memorials had to be terminated so that our debt to Germany would not be offset in the context of the memorandum is not accepted. It would have been accepted if you'd been treated differently. But we were in the memorandum in April 2013, when Mr. Tsipras came here to the House and invited our own government to bring the matter to the House immediately. Why? Then he didn't have a memo? Weren't you afraid she'd get off her back? So you couldn't bring it right away? Such netting is not acceptable. In 2013 you asked to bring it immediately and your "directly" lasted for five years, with intentional obstructions and delays. If a Nobel has to be taken here, in this country, it's probably the Nobel of hypocrisy and hostility! On April 12, 2014, Mrs Merkel was here. He mentioned before Mr. Venizelos. Officially, the issue was raised by Samaras Prime Minister and Venizelos Foreign Minister and then, on this serious issue, what did you say with your announcements in SYRIZA and what Mr Tsipras said? That they are communication games that cannot cover the Memorandum crime, and you were finally questioning the matter, which our government, Samara - Venizelos, officially told you that it had been raised. So you were announcing with your announcements our government that it declared full resentment to lenders and we were trying to entertain the impressions. On 10 March 2015, Mr Tsipras was here again - I imagine he will come again - and speak again for a historic moment and since then it has been four years. Five years have passed since 2014, for interrupting everything. Well, you've been giving us these assurances since 2015. Mr. Tsipras personally gave them in 2016 from the Party of Arta and the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki. He said the same thing again in 2017, that he would be discussed while he had the finding in his hands. What have you been doing all over 2018? Because the Minister referred to Mr. Kotzia. Indeed, Mr Kotzias went to Germany and met with his counterpart, Mr Hajko Maas, but at that time they had the Prespecies Agreement. And then Mr. Kotzias put it in a nice way that what is fair from history wants his way, his time and his time. So German allowances want their way, their time and their time, and Macedonia doesn't want to. It had to be completed immediately in 2018, because that was your priority. Your priority to Germany, against which you are saying today that we will all come together, was to accept the excess, that is, essentially, the tradition of the entire public property, and the tradition of Macedonia. It is suspected that the delay, suspicion and no neutrality in the time you choose to bring it, suspects and silences of those who are supposed to receive the messages today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, today, when we rise, we shall rise with a glance against the next battle. You will rise with a glance across the next pollen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u84	The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor, Mr Kalogerou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if a title could be given in this case and in this debate, it is: 'The Greek claim against Nazi guilt'. The country was crushed. Undetermined crimes against humanity lie within the framework of national and cross-party processing and understanding, and many people can say today and from here, that dynamic steps have so far been little, the dynamic actions that have taken over these decades. The truth is that we have stayed behind in updating the data necessary for victims and damage. And this party struggle and this opposition centre, I think, do not fit into today's debate and is, in any case, assessed by those who are following this debate with their sincere interest. We have the studies launched in 1946 on the Bulgarian Government to prepare for the Greek missions at the international conferences. There is the Doxiadis report on infrastructure disasters. It has been decades since we arrived at the Bank of Greece's report, as well as the initiative that - if I am not mistaken - was taken in 2014, as regards the General Accounting Office of the State and the recommendation of the State's Legal Board on the proposed negotiation process. These are, together with today's finding, whatever efforts have been made and must continue to claim self-evident. The conclusion currently being discussed in plenary session of the Greek Parliament is a decisive act of parliamentary diplomacy. It is a tool for the representatives of the Greek Parliament in the bilateral discussions and in the international forums. However, it is also a single vindicator on a common line for the Greek Government itself. The conclusion deals with four, in my opinion, major issues. Firstly, it deals with the war redress for the dismantling of infrastructure and the dismantling of the country's productive fabric, secondly, with the mortgage loan, so much written between zero and infinity. We have a rational tool, in my opinion, which is the conclusion of the General Accounting Office of the State. The third issue is the compensation of victims and their families, and fourthly the archaeological treasures. I will shortly complete Mrs Anagnastopoulou's timeline, recalling that after the unification of the two Germans, on 27 November 1990, we have a pre-dated debate and Andreas Papandreou then raises the issue of German war redress and mortgage on a discussion on "Information of the National Representation from the State", then, "Prime Minister Konstantinos Mitsotakis on the country's external and internal situation". On December 12, 1990, we have a question on the time of Prime Minister of Charilaos Florakis to Konstantinos Mitsotakis on Greek requirements - corrections after German unification. On 15 May 1995, by Decision 42/1995 of the Viotia County Council, the proposal of the late Yiannis Stamoulis to testify against the Federal Republic of Germany as a representative of the two hundred and fifty-eight successors, relatives and survivors who have declared that they wish to do so. In 1995, the financial communication of the Hellenic Republic was carried out under the supervision of Georgios - Alexandros Magakis. I make reference to the judicial course of the Dictator's case, without overlooking and forgetting the rest of the judicial struggles of the other martyr villages. On 30-10-1997, the Multimember Court of First Instance of Livade published its Decision 137/97 on a total compensation of 7,890,000, currently around EUR 23 million as capital, without computing interest and surcharges. On 4 May 2000 a decision 11/2000 shall be published in the Ice Bay’s Plenary Assembly rejecting Germany’s appeal against the judgment of the Multiple Court of First Instance in Livade. President-in-Office then was Stephanos Matthias. On 6 May 2002, however, the Supreme Special Court on another occasion adopted its judgment of 6 May 2002, which recognises at that time the prerogative of immunity in Germany. In March 2004, the judgment of the Multiple Court of First Instance of Livade in Italy, seeking the declaration of enforceability in respect of part of the judicial expenditure of the Ice Bay and not all of the claim. The decision of the Italian Supreme Court of Cassation shall be published in May 2008. Germany's application is dismissed. I personally experienced that trial by taking part in the group of lawyers we dealt with the question of execution in Italy. Germany’s application against Italy is lodged in December 2008. On 14-1-2010, it is the first time that the Greek state, the Greek state, intervenes in this open court case. Greece shall intervene in the trial as a non-court party. The decision was taken by the then Prime Minister George Papandreou. In May 2011, the claim of the Distinguished, recognizing the execution of the entire decision, was irrevocably challenged in Italy. Calls for the conservative confiscation in the hand of a third party of Deutsche Bank's claim for the cross-border use of railway infrastructure, EUR 25 million. The case is discussed before the International Court of The Hague on 16 September 2011. On 3 February 2012, the Hague Decision is published, which, by a majority, considers that the absolute application of the rule of judicial immunity is not bent because there is not a sufficiently well-defined national or international opinio juris in the direction of its implementation. In January 2013, Italy legislates an extraordinary legal aid to rejudg the judgment of these court executions, to facilitate the implementation of the Hague ruling. In 2013 and 2014, Italy discussed this legal aid in various courts. At the same time, on 27-2-2014 here in Greece, work on claiming German allowances ends, without ending up in a report, due to the announcement of the then-parliamentary elections in January 2015. On 22 October 2014, the Constitutional Court of Justice ruling 238/2014, which judges the application of the extraterritorial law in Italy, is to be adopted. On 10 March 2015, by unanimous decision of the Plenary Assembly of the Greek Parliament, the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on the vindication of German debts is recommended again, without resulting in a report, due to the announcement of the September 2015 elections. On 18 November 2015, by a unanimous decision of the Plenary Assembly of the Greek Parliament, it is decided to re-establish this committee and in July 2016 the report of the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee shall be submitted to plenary. In August 2016, pursuant to the Constitutional Court ruling, two judgments of the Court of First Instance of Florence reject Germany's intentions to seize a third party to Deutsche Bank's claim of successors. Judicial action continues. The New Democracy, which we are debating today, has taken note of the view that we cannot enter the debate and interfere with the claims of individuals, who, of course, are considered historically important. But it is not, in my opinion, a matter of private requirements. The issue is also the ‘private’ demands of the martyrial villages to join the overall government diplomatic strategy. The aim is not to go into unforeseen attempts or incomplete procedural interventions, given the previous rulings by both the Supreme Special Court here in the country and the Hague ruling, in other words, the question of court proceedings and how this question of court proceedings has been raised, as has been demonstrated by the decision of the Supreme Special Court and the International Court of Justice in The Hague, which could create a new cycle of judicial disputes. How much is that? The aim must be for Germany to come to the negotiating table and to all outstanding legal and case issues. We're holding a strong legal arsenal. We're keeping the historical justice. We keep political consensus so that we can act. Do we have a question mark or do we have a question mark? In the vortex of an unprecedented economic crisis, which led the country to the imposition of fiscal adjustment programmes, the question of corrections, compensation, the loan was tried to read as a supposedly negotiating pressure tool. This would be morally unbearable and historically small, and it is right today that this debate is taking place after the completion of the Financial Adjustment Programme without predicament. What's to offset? On the other hand, a description of the events that took place on 10 June 1944 in the witnessed town is useful to quote extracts from the No. 101/13 June 1944, a confidential service statement by the occupant government of the Quisling, Prefect of Boeotia, Georgiopoulou, to the Ministry of the Interior, in which it notes what has happened as follows. I am referring to it because this letter is part of the documents which have been formed and avenged in Italy, but also its counterpart by the head of the Red Cross mission who visited Distomos. These letters are referred to - the second letter I told you - in the decision of the minority of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. "Since two days I have spent the most dramatic moments of my life, the most witnessing moments of my life. The things that are going on in my region these two tragic days go beyond cruelty and cruelty, and on this night of St. Bartholomew, and these shekels of the shekels. The whole village, the Distomo, was destroyed. Groups of soldiers came into the houses and executed with an abnormal, unholy, unholy, revolved of their tenants. Father first, wife then, and follow children of any age. Infants two, five and seven months were brought out by the disfellowshiping of the carotid carotid, but when they were nursing. An infant was found to bring into the mouth the disfellowshiped breast of his mother, with a wound to the upper part of his head, and with another to the neck. The child of the peace-dominated Gritsiopi and his rape and slapping wife was found to be hurt the day after the terrible slaughter despite the body of his father, who did not want to be separated. Another child, too, was found gravitating upon the bodies of his father, Forest Kuribali, and his mother. The intestines of four other peasants were found wrapped around their necks. The priest of the village was found headless. His little distance from the body, found head, had his eyes mined. The house of the peacedog is washed in blood, for in it I had escaped many peasants who were slain. The president of the community, whom the first information was brought to death, was rescued. Two of his brothers, however, fall among the dead. On the west of the sun, the murderous activity was ravaged for two reasons: firstly, because the Nation and the army were obliged to return to Levadia and, secondly, because there were no more victims. There are few old men left, just numbered on the fingers of both hands, who have just left the German cars two times. Most of them just saw the macabre spectacle when they saw the terrible slaughter, they suffered a severe breakdown accompanied by the break-up of the brakes. Old passions were seen a few moments ago, a brain junction to drag his corpses through rope. And when the darkness covered this unprecedented human-slave history, the smell of the dead wild-bones by thick flocks fell into the vast space where richly unpredictable food was provided." Ladies and gentlemen, it is the next diplomatic actions that will judge the credibility of the political system as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 10th Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Rabbit has the floor, and then the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Independence will follow. [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] Well, don't complain! What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u87	What shouldn't we complain about? Planning was to talk at 12:00 and we'll finally talk at 16:00, at 17:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u88	This is already scheduled beforehand. Don't complain! You're all gonna talk a little bit. Here, Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u89	I just heard SYRIZA MP Cameroon shouting and screaming in the Chamber that he cannot speak to the Members of the Golden Dawn, he cannot speak to those who vote for them more than five hundred thousand of our Greek fellow citizens and we are here. But you can very easily, Mr Kamaterre, the Prime Minister and the ministers of the country converging with Mrs Merkel and going for a fisherman in Castella, do not dare to speak at all and go gently begg her and beg her to help you. They're the ones you can talk to. You have not dared to speak for so many years in all the international loan sharks that all of our SYRIZA MPs, Prime Minister and Minister, have equalised Greece. You have never dared to speak with all of them, but you accept that Greece has entered a tough memorandum for eight, nine years and that the Greek people cannot stand by. With all these people, I see you're having a good conversation. And because you are here yet, I tell you that you said that the Golden Dawn wants to dismantle the Greek Parliament, but we want to tear you down, you who have levelled everything patriots there, you who speak against the nation, you who speak against the Orthodoxy, you who do well and leave the halls, because you cannot face the Golden Dawn. That's how you always have to do! So, this rotten system, this rotten material that exists here on Golden Dawn, yes, wants to tear it down, because the Golden Dawn has not come here to interact with all of you and say that everything is going well, when a crowd of Greeks is going badly, it is cutting off the electricity, it doesn't have to live with some who work - you say that you have thrown unemployment - working with 450 euros. You take this and your families and you live with 450 euros and not the proud Greek citizen! We did not hear SYRIZA's MEP, the ministers and the Prime Minister of the country complain about the statements made by the German spokesman, Zybert, who said some time ago that our position is that the issue of German corrections has been legally and politically regulated. In this position, nothing has changed. Otherwise there is no official move of the Greek Government. That is what the German spokesman, with whom Mr Cameroon and the others are discussing, discussing and doing nothing. The Greek nationalists can't talk. He said, therefore, that he cannot speak with us and cannot vote with us. We will stress that for the sake of Greece and our country we can agree with anyone. If it is for the good of the nation and for the good of the Greek citizen, we can agree. We cannot agree with all those who are subjugating the Greek citizen. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] That's our difference. That's why we don't have any transactions with you, so we can clear things up. We have seen in the conclusion that we have in our hands, and on page 47, a little bit diligently, that Greek individuals cannot, in fact, claim compensation. It is precisely the finding that over time it has been shown that determining private war damages is not easy for many reasons. Let me remind you here to the governors, not only today in SYRIZA, but also to those who have been to date, but also to those who have been to our country forty-five years, that it is very easy to find everything as far as every Greek citizen is concerned to pay unbearable taxes. There we can find everything, get them out of the file, find cases and have everyone pay for even two trees his grandfather may have left him. There you can find them. In the case of German allowances it is very difficult - they say - for individuals. But who told you that there could be a Greek state, a Greek nation, if there are no individuals? What is the Greek state? Only one room of four hundred and these plus ones, who can decide and do what they want? You're here to serve Greek citizens. You're here to give help to the Greeks, who really can't find their own in all that's happened. So you should be here to help Greeks and individuals and anyone. And, of course, we have to take what the Germans owe us for the disasters they have done. Of course we have to take them, but who told you that the individual should not be helped? You must be on top of him, you who have forced him to pay unbearable taxes all these years. I think - and this is the view of the Golden Dawn - that the present political system is incapable of negotiating and is unable to claim anything for the benefit of the Greek nation. So that's not a guess we're making, but it's the tangible reality of what we've seen for so many years. You have taken a prosperous Greece, and you have made it a Europe-wide heap. You've broken everything. What can Greece, the Greek state, say that we are proud of? For education? For health? For public policy? Why can we say that we are proud? Is there no lamonia, which even now ends up with the Greek people? So tell us something you're capable of. Instead, we saw you put us in the size of the memoirs. We have seen you put us in a process that has no beginning and no end. In fact, while the Greek people have been paying unbearable taxes for nine years, Greece's debt has been deported. So if that's not at least incompetent, then what is it? Because we say it's treason. Because when we put in it and the debts, we put the treason of the Prespecies, we put the guilty and retreat attitude to the Aegean against Erdogan, then we cannot say that it is only incompetent, but it is also the basis of a project that exists. You say - and we have heard from all the 'constitutional arch', as you say - that the issue has been open for many years. But do you think this is a success, that is to say, that there is still an issue on which Greece is absolutely right? And where's it left open? Inside, here, mocking the natives, giving them beads to make fun of them. Have you gone out to see if it's still open? Have you claimed anything? Have you earned anything? At this conclusion we - and it has been three years since the committee ended - do you see any claim on the substance? What I see is to organize conferences, synergies and inform - you say - the German people. Are you serious? Will you go and let the German people know? You can't handle the Greeks, they're chasing you wherever they find them. Will you then go tell the Germans that they owe and owe and that they have to pay? I wish, but you're not in a position. And if, from what I have heard and from what I know, there are German parties, there are German citizens and various people of art who support Greek rights and fair demands for compensation from the Germans, why haven't you won them so long? What else do you want? You say that until 1990 we could not do anything, because these were the agreements between all of you who have been here for so many years. Since 1990 almost three decades have passed. What did we win? I would like them to tell me now with this conclusion, with this report that we are about to present, the most important lawyers among you, the President of Parliament, the Prime Minister, the Ministers, at how long they estimate that we will have won something as Greece. Let me know. In three years? Eight years? Twenty-four years? What timetable is there, so that according to this, which is absolutely nothing, for our country to win something? It is to have to say, it is an election flare you flew in order to make Greek citizens laugh one more time. Unfortunately, we will not win anything as Greece and anyone who wants to tell me specific things and facts that we will see along the way. So instead of the Germans coming here right now, the international loan sharks being presented with various names, swinging our fingers and leveling our homeland, they should have bend their heads, apologizing and repaying their debts to the Greek public and Greek private individuals. This could happen if it were a nationalist government, a patriotic government, which puts above all the good of Greek citizens and not the good - they say - of democracy or anything else. The good of democracy would do well if it represented and benefited Greek citizens. So you cannot talk about the good and the interest of democracy when you have opposed the betrayal of the Prespecies with 80% of Greek citizens. So don't talk about democracy, you, as well as you can't talk about democracy, when a referendum took place, in which the vast majority's decision was 'no' and you turned it into 'yes'. So for democracy, let others talk, you say that you do what is of interest to you, whatever suits you. This is what SYRIZA and ANELs and New Democracy and PASOK and the rest of the parties that you have been oppressing our country for so many years. The Court of Justice of The Hague in 2012, therefore, was open to claims for private compensation. The Greek Government, the Greek Parliament, says it is difficult and we cannot claim it. We say that, if we were given the opportunity at some point, we would claim it and win all this. You know, someone wins when they go to claim somewhere and when they believe in something. When you do not believe anything and all of this as a communal trick, then it is certain that you will be the good children of Merkel, the English, the French, the Americans, the international Zionists, whatever, but you will never be able to gain the sympathy and love of the Greek people, because the Greek people see that there are two hundred and eighty-four people in one room at the moment, who do everything to legislate against Greek citizens, in favour of illegal immigrants, for foreigners, for anyone else, but not for the benefit of the Greek citizens. On page 84 of the report, it is stated that critical inter-ethnicists, economists, etc. They must read properly and validly the judgment of the Court of Justice of The Hague on 3-2-2012 and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Italy on 22-10-2014 and draw up a conclusion. Since the first decision was adopted, seven years have passed and since the second five years have passed. How much more do the leading economists and lawyers have to go through to discuss and decide what should be done at the end of the day? How much longer does it have to go through? It's been twenty-nine since you said we could claim. It's been five. Will you think about it and will you have meetings for another four years, to spend a further five years, to discuss, to tell us in another ten years that this committee of people has to sit down and decide finally and definitively what is the amount to claim them? No, of course not. That's very easy. It can be done in a few days, in a few weeks. But that will put you in a difficult position to prove that you believe what you say, because then you have to go claim and that is not easy. You have only learned to knee and not to claim the Greek citizen. Everyone's talking about manipulations at international level. In fact, your MEPs have been in the European Parliament for so many years, what they have done on this matter. We have just heard about some international reports presenting these phenomena and only Greece is absent. So, where are you at least forty-five years - I don't put the previous ones - you who have the henanis, where are you the officials of the Greek state, what have you done? And you come here today in a room to tell us all these fairy tales? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President. I will end by confronting the positions that exist in this book, the positions expressed by the government and all the other parties about what the Greek state has to do to claim compensation from the German conquerors and what we are saying. Listen to what the report says: an intensive campaign to inform and raise awareness of international and Greek public opinion by organizing events, conferences, documentaries and films. Call me and slip! Let's go down. To focus on studying the occupation, resistance and the issue of German debts at all levels of the education system. Improve history school writings. Preparation of work on the matter. Scholarships for research at postgraduate and doctoral levels. Establish Greek Holocaust Memory Day. Strengthen the operation of the museums of the National Resistance and Greek Holocaust and establish within the museums research centres. But can you say that? Is that how you're going to claim compensation? With days, coffee and talk? The Golden Dawn, as you say, says: we do not pay the loans to the IMF or anywhere where we owe it, unless the amount owed by the Germans is immediately known and they do not pay it back. If they do not pay it back, Greece will also stop paying this money, which is the money that the Germans owe, not the Greeks. We must take unilateral action. Commitment of German State's assets internally. That's how we're gonna put them in a difficult position, not with conferences. Registration of German debts. Here is a challenge that we bad people will say to all of you democrats: we are now calling here the President of Parliament and all the parties and the President of the Republic today, since you want to resolve this issue - and we are with you if you want to solve it -, to sign together that there will be German debts in the state budget and from now on let the Germans run in The Hague and see what they have to do and how they will pay back. These are issues that can give a solution to what is currently in existence and not the days and coffee you are going to organise. That's the reality. That's why you hate us, so you're persecuting us, so you can't speak with us. That's the reality. We will continue to fight with Greek citizens for the fairness of Greek citizens, for Greece, for Orthodoxy and for the fairs of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u90	The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Scandalides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a great honour that today as a representative of the Democratic Integration I have been called upon to speak on an issue which only the people who are next to us who are following us for everyone must be a title of honour. I believe that today's sitting of this House is a historic moment in the course of the Greek Parliament, not only for the matter it is facing, not just for the fact that we can almost all put our signature under a text, regardless of our agreement or our disagreement on individual points or its inadequacy, but also for some exceptions the political reason expressed in this Chamber shows that it is coming from another time, from the unity that the political world can show around demanding a national issue of paramount importance. So I think it would be very easy for me to sign not only the conclusion, but also the historic recurring and moderate presence of the Minister who was previously taken up on the Step, with the objection that this debate could be held four years ago to have a much greater effect. That is why I will make an observation at the end of the day because I do not want to spoil the initial sense of unity. I would like to stay on a few points. I'll start a little paradoxical. The way in which the world is going shows a chance for democracy to live and by spreading knowledge to improve and wars to stop and the possibility of people being killed and the possibility of liberating a society. On the other hand, it is this whole system that is driven under the interests of a particular order of things into a truly deadlocked policy. I believe that man's life as selfishness, which no one can remove, should be the issue of our time. And if you want to talk about our space, Europe, our homeland, the world, the universal demand would be a new era of rebirth and humanism, a new era that mass removal for any reason of people's lives would be a mark in the eye of our civilisation, a time in which the Holocaust would actually be the most extreme expression of barbarity imposed at a time when peace could prevail and life become better. I say this because the Holocaust is precisely the symbol of Nazi atrocity, which is the most prestigious of the crimes of an entire century. Historically, our country had hundreds of dead. Our people have kept the flag of humanism high as a timeless value, but he has suffered the main and first and to a greater extent from all others the lame of Nazi atrocities. I remember the title of the book - the cry of Manolis Glezou - I was one of his presentations - which gives all the meaning of this debate today: "And a brand was the debtors of Germany...". It is not a question of transaction or balancing. It's a matter of national memory and historical justice. This national cheque is the one that needs to move the National Representation, if it wants to draw up a genuine national strategy, so that it also has a practical effect. Because until now we have eaten our flesh, confronted by those who are doing their job as a friend of Greece and who as an enemy of Greece. I have never seen anyone in this Chamber who is an enemy of Greece and no party of the democratic arch that is hosting the interests of the country and I would like everyone to feel the same way. It shows precisely that the climate that we have outside in political confrontation does not go hand in hand with the current unity that exists here and which shows what we could achieve. The second point I wish to raise is this. Our claim is historically fair and time-consuming, subject to one condition: it does not give the people responsibilities nor can it build stereotypes against the German people. It is solely the responsibility of a leadership and a totalitarian and fascist ideology. Unfortunately, the German leadership and postwars never accepted the Greek demand and faced it with a cynicism that remained unchanged throughout this historic period. It is comforting that today there is this little crack that does not go hand in hand with what we want to achieve, because it speaks of very typical things in relation to us talking about much more. But this crack, the break in German intransigence, is a small step forward. It could help to form an international public opinion, which could support us in the plea of our own request. I would therefore like to say that this process is essentially linked to another historical record. The Minister who spoke before was accurate in the record and I think he dispelled any doubts. I'll stay in three places. The first concerns 1964 when the first announcement of the issue of the borrowing was made, by the government of George Papandreou, by Professor Angelopoulos at a tax conference in Hamburg. The German Ministry of Finance's answer was that the government of Karamanlis resigned in respect of a loan of 200 million marks, but Constantine Karamanlis himself failed. It was an oral debate in which he obviously gave an answer to avoid the manager's question. The second station was in 1995, when it became the private communication of Andreas Papandreou via Carolos Papoulias - which I think George - Alexandros Magakis was the one who carried it - in relation to the update of the request for military allowances, in accordance with the agreement '2 plus 4' mentioned earlier. The Germans' answer was - to show the cynicity of their leadership - that the years have passed and made the demand inactive and that the legalisation of retaliation of retaliation against civilians in Distomo and Kalavrita were war actions and it was not a holocaust, it was not essentially mass slaughter, mass extermination. The third was this. In 2001, with the Simitis government, a committee was formed and the relentless Themelis went a memorial to the German Government. Because Themelis was a bit of a scholar, he said very typically: it was like raising a glass wall in front of us, they suddenly froze the smiles on their lips and blocked any discussion around this issue. I'm saying this to show that it wasn't so simple to say that I'm going, asking and taking it, nor so easy to say that there were Greeks who could and didn't. Fourth point. Greece has two separate and fair requirements. German debts as compensation for cities and individuals and military corrections and essentially archaeological treasures, etc. It is a part of the transnational agreement. That's the first. The second concerns the repayment of the loan, which is a contractual obligation. The first is dealt with in a transnational agreement. The second is legal and other cases, which must be done. The first is rather a judicial decision, the second concerns transnational consultation. We need a structured strategy. The conclusion gives us some directions, but they are also general. Because everything's a matter of correlation of powers. It's all about where the weak link is. And if a people united here basically claim the next step, so that it can reach the final solution, we will have luck. Otherwise we will continue a controversy - who have claimed it, who have not claimed it - or when we bring it to the House, three years later, in front of the elections. We could take advantage of these three years and do five more things. We didn't do these things, and it's a shame. Because I remember from 1994, when I first took over by the Ministry of the Interior, the anguish of Manolis Glezou, but also of late Yiannis Stamoulis - I was also responsible for these matters - to update the matter. And then we tried to do it and we were constantly meeting a wall, but also an internal opposition that carried it all into a political confrontation, the one that took place so long ago before the last elections, against the previous governments, and the one that we could now do and do against this government that actually delayed all these years and showed that what he said was not so easy to do and now comes and with very realism tells us things that are more realistic than what we were saying at the time. I say this because it is not time, ladies and gentlemen, to open a new page in our relationship, in our path, in our country, in the unity of our people. Is it not time to show that the Greeks united in giving an answer, in essence, to solve these problems, because we are claiming exactly united? Unfortunately, I am not so optimistic about this course, seeing today's political climate and it is a pity, because today was a great day.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u92	Mr Beyalas has the floor, and then we will give the floor to the President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party, Mr Leventis. By the time Mr. Beyalas came up to Stepma, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERYRIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House organizes and operates, thirty-four visitors from Germany. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I come to Stepma with mixed feelings, which were caused by the speeches from the start of the sitting and until shortly after the Step was taken by my dear colleague, Mr Scandalidis, whom I can say that I particularly have listened to his speech. It was a positive speech, beyond the little reproach it gave us, but it was a little different from the rapporteur. Before Mr. Scandalidis came out of the Step representative of those who, as political offspring and praisers and defenders of Nazism, come in and squeeze the finger, thus insulting the memory of a million Greeks who were either killed, tortured, or disabled - the victims of Nazism - by insulting the memory of the villages and properties lost and the infrastructures destroyed in the country, insulting the memory of all Greeks who are proud of the struggle that the Greek people gave in '40-41 and 41' -44'. This insult cannot remain unanswered, because those who carry the cross in their toes secretly or even in their tattoo, cannot move the finger in here. Those who state officially and publicly that they are the political descendants of the defeated World War II cannot move the finger in here. We all agree that this day is historic, because it comes and takes a particular matter of flesh and bone now. The report of the committee, which has years back in all its efforts by the Greek Governments, with particular reference to the Council of State, but also to the General Accounting Office of State, as Mr Stagiras rightly said, is the basis and the House is coming to ratify this report and to instruct the Government, in a concrete and orderly manner, to make use of all the legal and diplomatic arguments, to make progress in claiming German debts, a claim which, as the Minister rightly said, is not a matter of quantification, but is a tribute to this great contribution and to the blood tax paid by this country against Naziism, which we see rise to. I am sorry, of course, for some colleagues who in their opposition ostrich cannot escape and give the message of unity for this day. Nevertheless, at night we will give a vote to what the President of the Parliament put to the Conference of Presidents, giving important messages of this resolution. The question of debts to Greece by World War I remains open as an undetermined debt that seeks persistently its moral, historical and legal justice. The Greek state's claims and debts from World War I and World War II remain outstanding and active as a whole. The Greek state has never and in any way been abducted from its claims, except during the junta period, where the imitators of today are pulling the finger. There is no question of waiving the claims of the Greek State, and the Greek Government is invited to take all appropriate diplomatic and legal action to claim debts. This is the evening when we take a decision, which we are instructing the government, but in the most recorded way, not a fragmentary one. Because a lot has been heard here. They want to take responsibility for the fact that we have been late three years and I think the President of this House has been clear, that we cannot be told that this issue of German debts may be put in the sight of a set-aside. Because then it would not be possible to compensate for this tribute paid by this country, but we would do a bargain. We could say: in previous years, what? That's not the point. Organised today we are taking a decision on the claim of debts, and that is what is at issue, that we must here, through this House, unanimously withdraw the decision, apart from the Nazis, unanimously of those who have hurt and fought against the Nazis. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I am sorry, but your rapporteur has a confusion. Clear it up. Are you in favour of such a fellowship or can you not function? I'm thinking of an Aesthetic myth. I'll report him to close with it. On one side of the river bank was a frog and a scorpion. Says the scorpion on the frog: “Frog, let me pass across your back. You know swim." It says the frog: "But you will bite me and I will die." "But," he says, "you'll have me on your back. If I bite you, we'll both drown." The frog's hungry, he puts him on his back. Halfway through the river, however, the scorpion pinchs him. He turns the frog and says to him, "But why? We'll both drown. I will die of your poison and you will drown." The answer is: 'But it is in my nature to do this'. These poisons and that bile should not be allowed in here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u94	The President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Leventis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u95	We should welcome the President-in-Office, the Ministers present and the honourable Members present who are also present. The case that we are discussing today, the claim of compensation from Germany, is a case that is going on over a number of decades, six plus two of us do eight decades, right? In these decades there were governments here in Greece that did not claim compensation. Why does Mr. Tsipras claim? I believe that Mr Tsipras does not claim compensation, he simply goes to steal votes from the other parties on the left, because the reflexes of the citizens of the left, when they hear you're after compensation, are glad. There's a few left dogmatisms. So Mr. Tsipras goes to steal votes from Mr. Lafazani, from Mr. Koutsouba, from Mrs. Constantopoulos, from them. I think that the time chosen for the claim itself is a wicked plan by Mr. Tsipras, because I think you are four years and that you could have dealt with it before, right? Who prevented you from bringing it to the House for a vote? Who was blocking Samara, Karamanlis, the alpha, the beta who ruled on the right? Did anyone stop them? Oh, no. But there's something deeper. Germany is not concerned. Germany always answers that this has ended and that puts us in some thoughts. Germany is not concerned at all. Usually, when there is a requirement, some concern arises on the part of which you require. I have never seen the Germans worry at all. As many times as I speak to official Germans, they don't worry. They consider the matter to be closed with a loan of 160 million marks received by Constantine Karamanlis - the old man - and with the stay of four hundred thousand workers. Because, in the 1960s, they were persecuted from Germany by industrial revolution and the introduction of new technologies. Introducing equipment, and people were outdated. And then many workers were expelled - Poles, Hungarians, Turks, Persians - from Germany, for everyone you know from Germany. And Karamanlis, on his journey to Bonn, succeeded in not returning from the Greeks, because if the Greeks were naughty in a completely unorganized and disintegrated economy, the government would fall and there would be a disintegration of the country. There, then, there was some discussion between the Germans and the Prime Minister and I think that if we get to the claim, I am very afraid that very serious things will appear at the expense of Greece and at the expense of certain policies that have represented Greece over the years and that have known that this has ended and are now pretending that they do not know and demand claims. We as the Central Association will vote in favour of claiming, explaining, because there is a fair national requirement. They lost their lives, destroyed property, and there was atrocity. It is therefore reasonable that requirements are met. But why did the country sleep for eighty years? This debate is a slap for those who have been prime ministers all these years! What were all of them, blessed and gifted to the Germans? Can a country come after eighty or a hundred years to claim? It says, lawfully, it's not deleted. And because it's not legally mentioned, can we, after four hundred years, claim? Are these reasonable? Are we introducing this kind of logic into the functioning of the states and in the relations of the states? These are absurd things. That is why we are discussing this proposal today and we are being called upon to vote, and I see only one attempt by Mr Tsipras to plunder the parties of the rest of the Left, whose citizens are sensitive to this issue and who rejoice when we claim something from the Germans, from the British. It is certain that both Koutsoubas and Constantopoulou and Lafazanis will suffer from this evil plan by Mr. Tsipras. Now, whether we ever get money from the Germans, a little - we all know it in this Chamber! I don't know if there are people who really expect to get money! This is another priest gospel. But I can tell you that this debate is essentially a slap against those who have been prime minister and who are coming out of a wishless and broker. A reasonable claim was put in a ‘fridge’. The German side thinks - this is my information - with the 160 million marks and with the stay of about four hundred and twenty thousand Greek workers at that time - the rest of the nationalities have been expelled by the workers - that the matter is over. That is what Germany thinks, and you will see the argument that it will manifest itself if it needs to be manifested, because I believe that the show is being held here. I want to say something else now, because we are going to Euro-elections. So I am watching on all channels the main such as the candidate of the New Democracy, the main such as the candidate of the SYRIZA. Do you see the Centro Association anywhere? What's up, guys? What democracy is it that we set up? We've got five channels interconnecting and a state. Where's the Centroon Association? Where is he? That's a nice democracy you've set! Very nice democracy! In fact, a New Democracy lady has seen her appear a hundred times on all channels in the morning, noon, noon, noon. I don't want to say her name, so we won't expose her. It's a lady from LAOS. That's the one I mean. I don't have anything with the lady, but she needs to know that her constant appearance on her channels is bad for her when the channels don't respect the parity. That is to say, it ends up if there is one SYRIZA and one of the New Democracy. There's democracy. There is no need for democracy, for these two parties. All you have left is forbid the parties to function. If you could do that, you would. Don't have any doubts. Mr. Tsipras was interviewed by Mr. Hatzinikolau and said that the people had been killed for four years and now it is time for the people to benefit. I don't get it. So, what's that? We strip the people, we drink the blood and the other we come to give them benefits? Is this a state-of-the-art method? We have a duty, he says, to the widows. The widows have been on the road for three years now. When did you realize the widows were left without pensions? Now you realize that? When did the ESS get cut? Another government is cut? When did the retrospectives get cut, which people are yelling about? When do they go to give? What money will they give? In other words, there is a question here to the Greek citizens. There have been so many years of money and some bad people have cut them off from the people, or has the people sacrificed everything, even his own blood, for eight years, and now Mr. Tsipras, to improve his election rates, expose the sweater and lead us to bankruptcy? What's happening to everyone? And Mitsotakis comes too and gives 2,000 euros to every child born. Despite Mr. Mitsotakis' announcement, I don't see women being pregnant, because nine months are still pregnant and since the nine of Mitsotakis comes out, all women had to be pregnant. I say that if they believed Mr. Mitsotakis, that is, if the two grand are enough to give birth to a child. There is therefore a manifest deception of the people from some parties here. There's a story in general. Those who see that they are leaving the community are sharing and those who come again must share, because otherwise they won't come, because if you don't lie to Greece and you don't share, you don't go out. Today I had a conversation with an ALPHA journalist and he tells me that they appoint again. Rushphetti's continuing. It was, he says, '5 to 1' - that is, five to depart, one to enter the public sector - and now Tsipras did it '5 to 5' again. But with "5 to 5" we went bankrupt! What's going on here? So the economy has taken breath and we must immediately take it back to suffocation, why should some people be re-elected in this Chamber, deceiving the Greek people? Is this to be done? I will also tell you a story that is true and that happened three days ago. The Centro Association belongs to a group of European parties called EDP. This group met in a part of Europe - I had also sent a Member of Parliament - and reiterated the manifesto of the EDP. In the EDP manifesto, I asked for a term to come in. In other words, in order for the Centroon Union to approve the manifesto, a referendum must be held after the parliamentary elections in Greece, which was not done by Tsipras for the Prespes, because the Prespecies, without the people, were approved, while the other side, the Skopje side, held a referendum. We did not vote. And the strangers knew that 80% of the Greek people opposed the agreement and Mr Tsipras knew that 80% of the Greek people opposed the agreement. I have therefore asked that the term should enter the manifesto, that the twenty-seven other European parties in the Centroon Union show solidarity, which we are calling for a referendum following the parliamentary elections in Greece to see whether or not the people approve the Prespes. The view of the twenty-six parties, including Cyprus - and Cyprus voted 'according to' to the proposal of the Centro Union - was that the matter has ended, that it is a transnational agreement and that it has expired, that we cannot discuss a legal agreement that has expired. When I was informed, I asked the person who represented me to say that the Centroon Union is leaving. I cannot participate in a group of parties, which does not understand that the will of the Greek people has been violated on such a vital issue. They met three days and finally told me that they agreed to write to the manifesto that the parties of Europe are being forced, the rest, to show solidarity with the Union of centralists calling for a referendum, because the will of the Greek people has not been shown. That's right. You're threatening to win. That's the method. I could say, too, that after the remaining twenty-seven - including the Cypriots - it is agreed that the matter is over, it is now over for me too. I would not, however, agree with what I have said in Macedonia, Crete, Greece, everywhere. Why don't you think Crete wants the Prespes? Do you think you'll only have a reduction in Macedonia? You'll have a reduction everywhere. And I'll say about the New Democracy. The New Democracy has not even been honest with the issue of the Ambassadors. She kept talking about language and identity. For the name New Democracy has never spoken of and practically swabbed the melting carpet. Did you once ask for a referendum? Did you ask for anything? Did you make a serious effort? You and the rallys with fear and effort went when you saw the world went first. At first you said whoever wants to go, then you said we didn't take part in such things, and then you pulled yourself together by force. Under the pressure of society you went to the rallys. But you have the courage to go to Thessaloniki and say, "We didn't vote." What didn't you vote for? You've pressed the mediocre carpet at Tsipras. If you made real resistance, it wouldn't pass. You were afraid, however, that after the Prespecies bomb - if elections were held - it would break into your hands. Because the Americans were unholy in this regard. Some mayors are photographed next to me and then they take the pictures by saying that they are supported by the Centro Association. I don't support it. First of all, I have said about municipal and regional authorities - the Centro Association - that I do not support anyone. I let people choose. What I'm giving as a line is not to vote for anointed ones. For example, one who has a nomination of the New Democracy cannot be voted on by a voter from the Union of Centres. One who has a name for SYRIZA or PASOK cannot get a vote from the Centro Association. They're approaching me, photographed, and then they do something disgraceful and they take it off the websites that I support one and the other. So to rebuild the truth, I am going out and saying: I do not entirely support anyone. All I ask is that the European Elections Centres should receive at least one or two MEPs. That is what I ask and will give up to death and a personal struggle, as I have learned for forty years to give. Apart from the race the candidates will give, I've learned to give the fight as I know it. And you'll see him how I give him to the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u96	Finish, Mr. Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u97	It is worth saying one last thing, Mr President. He asked me yesterday one on a show that was a syriatic at Radio 247: 'And what did you do four years in the House? If you hadn't entered, what would have happened?" But I'm sorry what we've done, you've never taken it into consideration. Kammenos and Tsipras, with a dictatorship they had in here, voted for theirs. So what do you ask me, "What have we done?" There is the following system in here: Parliamentary figures create a majority, because the majority of the House has never had one. What did this House have? Tsipras had taken about 30% and 3.5% of Kammenos, all together 38%, minus damage, go to rule with 25%. Well, you have never taken into consideration the opinion of any party. How can a party offer in a climate that you ignore everyone? How can he offer? And he tells me later: "What if you hadn't managed to get into the House what would the place lose?" What would the place miss? I'll tell you what he'd miss. It would only be you, a political system with which the people have disgusted themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Karakostas has the floor since the Golden Dawn. Two other speakers will follow on the list and then Mrs Zorba, the Minister for Culture and Sport, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, tell us who the next speakers will be to know them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u100	It is Mrs Vayonakis, Mr Stylus, then the Minister and we continue from the list. Here, Mr. Caracosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u101	"It is true that, with the exception of the performance of the financial communication on 14-11-1995, the Greek governments did not claim methodically and with the corresponding insistence on German debts towards the decades of paradoxical and intransigent attitude of the German governments." The phrase, which I have just read, is on page 21 of the report by the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on the vindication of German debts and shows in the most indicative way the time-consuming attitude of all Greek governments towards a major issue, the importance of which is growing multiplierally in the current time-frame that finds our home and people in a bad economic situation, as a result of the actions of the rulings. The reasonable question arises: what is the reason or - if you would like - what is the feasibility of depreciation, improperness and indifference of the Greek governments to date for such an important issue, that of German corrections, which clearly and clearly relates to the service of national interests? Is Greece a powerful economic state? Is it the steam engine of the European economy and have governments decided to deal with the matter? Did the governments consider Greece's legitimate claims against Germany as crumbs, or did these same governments consider that the German state is oblivious and therefore totally unable to respond to the legitimate Greek claims? None of this happened because, in order to do this, it would be necessary for the people who constituted Greek political leaderships to be of reduced understanding and intelligence. Their personal enrichment, however, breaks down such a scenario and instead proves that they are capable. How, then, are these skilled and extremely gifted politicians, who have for years monopolize the central political scene of the country and are constantly getting rich, serving their personal interests, neglecting such an important case, which concerns the nation as a whole and promoting its interests? Conversely, how do these benevolent, honest and vulnerable politicians, the self-invigorating saviors of the country on the one hand reluctantly refuse to demand legitimate Greek demands from the German Government, alleviating the hard-tested Greek people and, on the other, they come to impose hard and unfair tax measures in accordance with the orders of the German Government? The answer is simple. The governments of the country are governments of foreigners, endotic and fearful men, worse than those who once dominated Latin American and African states, as the country's real government is in Brussels. From the report by the Intergroup of Parliamentary Committee on the Claim of German Debts, and only on the issue of the mortgage loan, I read: "In conclusion, Germany's debt to Greece, as far as the borrowing is concerned, is delimited to a documented range of between EUR 335,3 and EUR 407,6 billion and must be finalised on the average of these two estimates, namely EUR 371,4 billion". Here one citizen will ask: What has suddenly happened and changed the attitude of the government and all the parties to the so-called 'democratic arch' and something starts to move, as it seems, on the question of German corrections? Have our wise politicians been reasoned and are they ready to claim our national laws? I'll let you down. The answer is a huge and unequivocal "no", which "no" I do not say is not the Golden Dawn, but the Prime Minister himself, who in December 2018 made the following statement from Kalavritas: "If it is not recognised on the other hand, we will find a way, agreedly, since there is a disagreement on this, to see how we will resolve this dispute, because in our assessment it is not about the level of compensation, it is above all a moral debt, not only to the Greek people, but to all the peoples of Europe." I say this again, so that those political deceivers on the left, who had just remorseed the Golden Dawn, 'because - says Mr Tsipras - 'it has nothing to do with the amount of compensation, it is above all moral debt, not just to the Greek people, but to all the peoples of Europe.' The threat is common to all the peoples, and we see that these days the ideology of hatred is going to infect even the Greek society. So here is how the German Labour Left mocks the Greeks, and that is why we expressly state to the Greek people that the first signature of Greece's legitimate and fair claims against the German Government for the war redress and the mortgage loan is that of the Golden Dawn. Let us assume, however, that we are deciding the official claim by the German Government. Which government will go to claim them? If the Tsipras Government goes, as it tried to claim the abolition of the memorials and as it went to Prespes, it is more likely to return by celebrating the signing of an agreement on war redress for Germany. If a Mitsotakis government goes, don't be delusional, ask Mr. Christoforikos, to find out what the end will be. To conclude, the Golden Dawn on the issue of German corrections considers that it is of paramount importance and must finally become Greece's official demand towards the German state. This major issue must be settled in accordance with our national interests, to open up another capital issue for the Greek nation and the Greek society. As a Member of Parliament of Boeotia and having the luck of my grandmother coming from Distomo, I would like to inform you that Distomo, as in many other villages and cities of Greece, was not only affected by the Germans, I put forward the following document for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelos Karakostas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So it is time to open up the question of the Greek state claiming the human victims, for the dead, the injured, the kidnapped and the disasters in infrastructure and property caused by the KEI from 1944 to 1949, the so-called "Group of the Republic" Georgios Papandreou "crime and treason", the second largest property owner in Greece, came to pay for the gang-government account.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u102	Good. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u103	And because the neo-democrats ideologically represent the wars of communism - and this now in the run-up to elections - we challenge them: Tolmates, gentlemen of the New Democracy, to open up this issue? Because the Golden Dawn and dare and will do it as a government act and we promise that the unstoppable property of the JRC will be delivered to unreasonable Greek families and to...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u104	Well, inaccurate...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u106	...and unscrupulous things are unauthorized to be heard, but we expect nothing but golden killers, judiciaries. Mrs Vayonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u107	Come on, come on! What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u108	Come on out, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u109	Mr. President, don't you hear him? [[Noise from the Golden Dawn wing]] You're going to "take" lawsuits...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u110	You don't sound. Come on out! I have given the floor to Mrs Vayonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u111	You'll be "take" lawsuits...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u112	Those screams of hatred don't belong here. Come on out!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u113	You guys are murderers!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u114	You don't sound. Come on out! The door's open. Murderers and offenders all the way here! You're murderers and indictments. Murdering organization.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u115	You guys are murderers!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u116	There are records...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u117	You kill and bleed people, Greeks and immigrants. Come on out!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u118	You guys talking about humanity, okay...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u119	Come on out! Mrs Vagonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u120	What are you doing out there? Are we at your house?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u121	None of what you say is written in the Minutes. Stop right here. Mrs Vayonakis has the floor. [[Noise from the Golden Dawn wing]] That's it! You'll either sit down and you'll hear or you'll come out. You won't let the congressman speak. Come on out. We weren't expecting better behavior than subjugated criminals. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u122	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u123	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u124	You show who you are. That's who you are. That's your ideology, that's your practice. Come on out!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u125	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u126	The Congressman must speak. You won't stop the process. Mrs Vagonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u127	We had the democratic sensitivity to listen to you. Now let us continue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u128	You're offended criminals. That's who you are! Here, Mrs. Vagonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, with respect for our guests, the fortress position of Crete, as the committee has said, is not only the area that was first applied to strands, that is to say, compulsory work as a measure of collective punishment, or the area that took place in Europe in Contomari Chania. It was also the place the last German soldier left. The Germans left Chania from the end of June to the middle of July 1945, that is, three months after the end of the Second World War, since the British, for their obvious reasons, had handed over the administration of Chania, a strip of sixty - five kilometers, from Georgoupolis to Plakalons to the Germans and then fled them through Souda. In fact, all the testimonies contribute to the fact that they were throwing down the arms of the Germans who were delivered to the sea, so that the Cretan people would not be equipped. I am saying all this, to emphasise that the feeling of moral demand that there should finally be steps to reclaim the German corrections for what happened horrificly because of fascism and Nazism, which we heard earlier, during the Second World War as a sign of recognition of yesterday's crimes against oblivion is universal in Crete. That is why I consider today's historic day that the House will instruct the Government to initiate proceedings at all levels - diplomatically and legally - for claiming German debts. And that is our obligation to those who fought for freedom and democracy and even gave their lives for it. Let us not forget that Greece is the country with most victims of war proportionately. The conclusion says 19.7%, Yugoslavia follows 13.83% and all others fall below 10%. Some say that during World War II the anonymous Greeks gave it to him. But that's not the way it is. All those who offered everything were not anonymous. They were surnames. We honor them every year in all the scattered monuments, throughout Greece and Crete, and we do not forget. It was first of all EASA, ELAS, EPO, which undoubtedly constituted the most mass resistance organizations, but also many others, who fought the conqueror. On the other hand, there were those who worked with the conqueror, the ancestors of the Golden Dawn, who today raise their heads in Europe. That is why claiming German debts, as fulfilling a duty for those who have fallen, is now more imperative and more necessary than ever. Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the fact that the committee's conclusion comes to plenary as a majority recommendation, I would like to assure you that the committee has been conscientious and conscientious. The parties' obligations may have led to the deposit of separate texts, but in reality the finding is a product of broader processing. First of all, there was the acquis of the committees since 2014, as well as the reports of the competent state bodies, the Law Council of the State, the General Accounting Office of the State, the Ministry of Culture and the Bank of Greece. Scientific bodies, but mainly representatives of bodies, particularly the National Council for the Claiming of German Debts, were also invited to the committee for all these years, led by Manolis Glezos, to keep this request alive, the network of martyrdom cities, etc. I consider the Commission's finding to be documented, after analyzing all forms of debts in detail: war compensation to individuals, war redress, forced mortgage, returning - performance of stolen cultural treasures. For the latter, the recording is more difficult given the illegal excavations, mainly dealing with the Rosenberg Foundation. So the guns are in place, and the state needs to take the initiative from now on. There's been delays. Others think they're reasonable, others don't. I would like to remind you, however, that in just 2014 the House set up a committee on this issue. There have been sporadic efforts in the past by the Greek governments. These efforts are recorded in the finding and underline the fact that Greece has never suspended the right to claim German debts, which it considers to be inappropriate. In this respect, it is characteristic that the German Parliament's answer to a question by the Die Linke party on 6-2-2014 is “... not known to the federal government officially finalised resignation of the Greek Government from claiming corrections”. Furthermore, the United Nations Convention on the Unregulated of War Crimes and Crimes against Humanity is clear. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it all contributes to the need to claim German debts. The Treaty on the definitive arrangement for Germany, the well-known ‘2+4’ agreement in which Greece did not participate, has led to the unification of Germany. So the obstacles which have entered the London Agreement of 1953, for the suspension of claims, no longer exist. Clearly, the path of dialogue and the attempt to reach an agreement must be preferred, as is clearly the case with the London Agreement. It is also very important that there are now strong voices in Germany that support Greek requests in contrast to what Mr Hydes Richter has unthinkablely declared. Finally, we're out of a memorial, so any suspicion of offsetting can't exist in anyone's mind. I conclude by saying this: I think this requires unity and parliamentary action. It is time to act what we have discussed in committee, to internationalise the issue, to inform foreign parliaments, to organise an international conference and to say what is being proposed by the conclusion as actions. The road will not be easy, but it is necessary, it is a fair road and a road that must unite us all the forces of the democratic arch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u130	The next speaker is Mr Stylus. Mr President, before I give you the floor I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty students and students and two educational attendants from the 6th High School of Stavroupolis of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the report by the Intergroup of Parliamentary Committee on German debts. The major question of performance of Germany's remedial debts to Greece remains open and is an absolute legal and moral priority. The tragic consequences for Greece and its citizens have been incomprehensible. The Greek people were led to absolute impoverishment. Our country's economy is ruined. However, the massive looting suffered by the Greek state and the systematic extermination of our population, unfortunately, have never been rectified, mainly on account of historical circumstances. It was the former Government of New Democracy, which basically brought the whole matter back to the fore with the establishment of a working group of the General Accounting Office of the State for the investigation of its archives on German allowances. Organize and document the data we can use. The conclusion of this group was confirmed and supplemented by comments and comments made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and by the Legal Council of the State, the institutions whose validity and independence are not called into question. The next stage was the setting-up of a Intergroup Parliamentary Committee to claim German allowances in 2014. This committee completed its post-election work in mid-2016. Since then this report has been in drawers. In fact, what prevented you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, for three years, from organising an action plan, even a conference with a body or a department of History from a university to give a first dimension to the whole matter. Do you really believe it or does it just appear electorally to raise emotionally reflexes? Either way, it is certain that under no circumstances has there ever been a Greek government that resigned our fair values. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to material damage and theft of gold by the occupying powers, there was, of course, the tragic human loss. Whole cities and villages were victims of Nazism and fascism. In my country, Arta, in many villages, such as Athamani, Vourgarelli, Cataracts, Loutrotopotus, Sicily, we had atrocities and civilian executions, as well as material disasters. But you will allow me to refer specifically to the slaughter of the Party. It was one of the largest civilian massacres in the history of the German occupation in Greece, equivalent to that of the Kalavryta and the Diastomos. It was committed during World War II on August 16, 1943. They set up machine guns at the entrances of the village and for nine hours they killed, raped, burned and destroyed what was in their path. When they left, they had left the three hundred seventeen dead, ninety - seven infants and children up to fifteen years old and a hundred and ten - nine women. One of these was a ready-to-be woman who was found dead with the belly torn apart and the fetus dead next to her. The atrocity took place one day after the feast of the village's Panagia, in the 15th century. At the end of the massacre, the German soldiers sat in the village square where they ate and drank next to the bodies. Seventy-six years have passed since then and in the heart and consciousness of all of us, of all Artines, the atrocities of the German conquerors remain. Every year, on August 16th, a crowd of people participate in the memorial tomb of honor the victims of the Nazi atrocity that does not honor European culture. Who can compensate for lives that have found such a terrible death? Ladies and gentlemen, during the occupation and war the infrastructures of our country were almost completely destroyed. Our country's currency gold was stolen. Indicatively, I mention the snatching of the monetary gold of the Deposit and Loan Fund by Arta and Heraklion, as well as by the National Bank of Greece. Overall, Greek debts - claims related to war redress and compensation, repayment of the mortgage and the return of stolen, grabbed cultural treasures from the occupation forces. I'd like to stand by the mortgage loan a little. According to the report by Ioannis Lambroukos, from August to December 1941 he was paid for the needs of the occupation authorities, German and Italian, which accounted for about 45% of the money that was circulating during the same period in the country. In response to statements by the Minister of Finance about the country's arrogant economic and financial situation, the then proxy of the III Reich said that "although the memos are being studied, regardless of the outcome of their study, the Greek state must bear the costs of German troops and henceforth constantly". Ladies and gentlemen, with the agreement of 14 March 1942 between the Governments of Germany and Italy, the mortgage loan due to its non-institutionalisation by Greece and the retrospective communication of Greece's compliance with its terms is described as "necessary". Professor Spyros Flogaite, speaking in committee, said attributes: "Europe and the world today have been composed of people who have been three generations since the events that have occurred that are the generics of the demands we have on Germany. People don't know." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me some time, I'll be done in a little while. The professor continues to describe the shock of the former Prime Minister of Italy and now President of the Constitutional Court of Giuliano Amato when he had reported to him the history of the mortgage loan. He said: “Have you raised it? What does it mean you borrowed the Germans?" the Italian asked. In reply, the professor said: "Yes, we lent what we had and did not give it to them, and in that year hundreds of thousands of people died in the streets of Athens, because there was no dime." Ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned this to draw your attention to how delicate and serious theme requires the Greek issue of claims at national and international level. So our question: Does the government intend to implement the right ones? Will the House proceed to the dues with national consensus and national consensus? You know, too, the Greek people know that, as they have always done, the New Democracy will support every national attempt to justify the Greek positions. We must all stand up to the circumstances and do the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u132	Mr Zorba, Minister for Culture, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, tomorrow we are celebrating UNESCO World Monuments Day and today's debate on the cultural trauma suffered by the country during the Occupation, I think it is contagious. I shall begin with the common assumption that the legitimate and fair claims for Germany, beyond a matter of moral order and international legality, are also linked to the effort to restore the integrity of monuments and archaeological ensembles, the restoration of its own historical memory and the restoration of less well-known and silent facts and phenomena of recent history that slowly come to light through research. The reality is that during the Occupation, atrocities took place not only in the intellectual material, not only in infrastructure, but in the environment, material resources and especially in the cultural wealth of the country under the responsibility of the Occupational Forces. The disasters were mainly premeditated and after personal orders, however, in the context of the hierarchy of the Nazi regime. This is why we should mention the effort made by the Archaeological Service and by the museum operators to hide the antiquities in the various museums in the country, also the true business in the first difficult years after liberation to record the disasters, losses and damages suffered by Greek antiquities, Byzantine and post-Byzantine. The above were condensed in 1946 in the edition of the Ministry of Religious Affairs and National Education entitled "Zimies of antiquities from the war and the Occupational armies", which is a key point of reference in the vindication of antiquities. The Department of Documentation and Protection of Cultural Goods continues to attempt to systematically record those stolen during the Occupation. Of course we have back. From 1947 until today, twenty - six cases of repatriation have been completed, broken down into a thousand - hundred - eight items, forty - one boxes of Hebrew manuscripts, neolithic and Paleolithic findings. In addition, the post on the electronic base of the stolen works of INTERPOL, stolen and therefore missing cultural goods from the Occupation. We note that the suspension for each of the objects is carried out after the archaeological documentation has been completed and if the objects to be suspension fulfil the conditions, i.e. they have been stolen or lost during the occupation, no private collections or museum collections or other entities known to us, and there is photographic or design printing. The latter, of course, makes it sometimes difficult to identify when there is no printing that can help us. Of course, in all the above cases, it is clear that the voluntary declaration of illegal possession of objects and the intention of being returned by the holders to legitimate gentlemen. Why, however, have voluntary repatriation, both by individuals and by museums and educational institutions in recent years? For two reasons: on the one hand, because of the transformation of the international climate, on the other, because of the active and effective actions that our country always carries out in accordance with the international legal framework. In this context, since 1970, the international community has been alarmed and restless in dealing with humanity in its past past through UNESCO's intention of blocking practice and supporting the return of cultural goods illegally removed from the countries of origin. The UNESCO Convention in question is a turning point for the phenomenon of archaocapilia internationally. Our country incorporated it in 1980 and has since been active in this context with geometric progress. In 2010, during a period of critical treatment of the contract, Greece proposes and supports the creation of a mechanism to observe its implementation by the Member States. This committee is finally set up in 2013 and from 2015 to 2017, our country was lucky to take over its presidency. The almost Greek Presidency in the respective committee of the Hague Convention on the Protection of Cultural Heritage in cases of armed conflict shows the general interest in the protection of cultural goods and demonstrates the country's active activity in international fora. Let us not forget at this point what situations today are experiencing several countries with rich material cultural heritage, such as Syria, but also Iraq, Libya, states in war, which need and seek the assistance of the international community, and especially of our country. That's for a simple reason. Because we have made progress in the last decade in trying to protect monuments, mobile and stable, from illegal trafficking. To conclude, I feel the need to stress that we are approaching the issue of sobriety, the persistence and the meticulous scientific research that is needed. We realise that times have changed and that cooperation is necessary in the interests of the whole. That is why we want the wounds in the body of cultural heritage to be known, recognised and healed to the extent possible. Research remains open and ongoing in relation to occupation for the Ministry of Culture, since modern technology enables us to search for data, both in the posted collections of foreign museums and in historical archives of the states involved, in the looting and dispersal of stolen cultural heritage in Europe and America, because from America we do have results, during and after the end of the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u134	Mrs Vaguea has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's part-session is a very important meeting and it is to be added to a series of actions by our country on the very serious issue of German debts. The Intergroup Parliamentary Committee for the Claim of German debts, of which I had the honour and pleasure of being a member, and the President of the Trinidad Mitafidis worked hard to create this documented finding. Today, when, unfortunately, the ghosts of fascism and Nazism are reliving again in Europe, keeping alive the memory of the crimes committed in our country by the German troops in the period of occupation 1941-1944 is an act absolutely necessary and necessary. The soil of our country, Greece, was watered almost every corner of the blood of the victims of fascism and Nazism. These human lives that have been martyrically lost in no way come back. But compensation to their families is a small right to their unjust death. The 3.5 billion drachmas the Jewish community of Thessaloniki gave the Germans to save their sons and men not only were they never returned, but it was also the price of the mockery that the Germans set up to then kill in concentration camps all these people. Our antiquities and cultural treasures stolen so far decorate their museums. I wonder how it is possible to steal something from someone, from another place and people, and to expose it with pride to a museum of your own. Isn't it a shame? I would like to mention just one example of the many theft of antiquities, the result we have in our hands: 'Eleiss. Formed German soldiers, after a thorough study of the museum, decided and executed theft, after the proper tools were also built to theft. In other words, they have broken for an appropriately prepared window with the storage museum, and with the small one they have removed vessels and idols from it. But when they were perceived, they left on a motorcycle.’ It is also undisciplined and unsatisfactory that the German artistic protection office gave an excuse for its 27-2-1942 document, which it has said in the following terms: ‘This case should not be regarded as theft by the perpetrators. This is reflected in the fact that it is educated people who are interested in the Greek antiquity, that they were aware of the English and made use of the English guide. The collectors would obviously have the intention to have such an enthusiasm." So I wonder if the descendants of these educated German soldiers were returning these robbery, with the opportunity that Eleusina is a Capital of Culture in 2021. I have heard a lot of previous speakers here, and what is dominating is the controversy 'which government has done more, which government has delayed the most'. I think it doesn't fit all those people who have fallen into these years of the micro-political conflict. I thought a lot about my speech and instead of talking, I decided to give the floor, through her memories of her testimony, to a woman from Kalavrita, Franzska Nika. I think that her word deserves to be heard in the Greek Parliament, as well as thousands of other testimony of so many people from the martial villages and the Domenics of Thessaly, as everyone speaks of their homeland. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So Franzska Nika tells us: “It is Monday, December 13, 1943. We're awakened by bells, I'm flapping, I'm throwing a clothes on me, and I'm on my way. All our neighbors are full of agony. What's going on? The bells tighten our hearts. What else will he find us? And yet, it was the first night we slept a bit quiet since Thursday when they entered the Caravans Germans. They told the president they'd leave. What else can they do? The guerrilla houses were burned. They burned the big hotel, Helmos, because they said there were rebels. There's a T-shirt approaching the square. Don't worry, he says, it's nothing, the Germans want to talk to us, and then they'll go, gather all of us to school, homes, get us a blanket and a slice of bread. Well, how is it possible to empty the houses? Old Tsobos is ill with pneumonia. Shall we pick him up in such coldness? He's going to die. My jaws were shaking, I'm running into our house to get the maids. My uncle's got 'em, too. They'll kill us, tell my aunt, this time we're not getting away with it. They'll kill us, tell her again. But they don't, they kill what they find. And he was telling the truth. I can hear them as a loser. What are we gonna do? Courage! We get three blankets, some bread in a towel and we go out. The cold sloppy, heavy mist, you don't see in the ten steps, the world of shadows caught by its hands, old, old women with young children, all devastated progress to school. Others join us, man-to-man-man-man-made who moves into the sanctuary, shaking from the cold and the fear. We get to school, they turn us in, and they start with wild voices distinguishing men from women and children. Russ, rauss! My hand is stuck in my uncle's palm, tightens it nervously. The aunt stands out for him a piece of bread. We get to the German who makes the selection. Russ, rauss! My uncle tightens my hand hard, hard, and then he leaves it. One last look at his wife, without saying anything, without kissing, they said it all with their eyes, which I will not forget. The Germans are pushing him, they're rushing. He's lost in the trench with the other men and he doesn't turn his gaze or see us...”
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u136	Mrs. Vageia, please, we'll be very happy to complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u137	Please, it's half a page. Besides, there have been so many fights here, so noisy, right now, it's worth the trouble of hearing a real...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u138	Keep going, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u139	“...The flower of women, go for the station and from there to the vineyards. The Germans are setting fire to the last houses, burning them with a gun. We look at them hidden and tucked into the vineyards and shaking, we ask about men. Where did they take them? Then there was the voice of a woman. There's these men over there sitting on the sidelines. I'm starting to run, run with my head ahead, cut the air, get as fast as I can. Others run next to me fast, to fly, to go to our people. And then the voice of a woman from the opposite sounded. That was the first one that brought the first guess, scooping, pulling the hair. Where are you going, lads? Where are you guys going with the smokes? Go, our men go! They were thrown, killed in the porch. They all ate them. They've all been eaten by dogs. I'm looking for my uncle among the others. We're looking unspoken inside the chewed, bleeded into the blood, carefully lifting the bodies with care not to press them. There's my uncle, there's him in the front! I get the complaint, I'm fond of him, I'm talking to him. The bullet came out of the mouth. His teeth are broken, the upper lip is ripped. I'm trying to shut his mouth. How handsome he was! Why did they make him like this?" How many million marks are all paid for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u140	Mrs Maria Kollia-Charucha, Independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to pay tribute to all the things that my colleague, who has just come down from the Step, has described. I would like to pay tribute to the Protestants of the Old Kerdylls, in the Serres area, from where I come from and have lived and I have such descriptions from the grandmothers I have had to listen to before they die. And, of course, I should like to pay tribute to all the victims of Nazi atrocities throughout Greece, and especially in Macedonia and Thrace, who there were supported by the Bulgarians, who were always at the side of people who were slaughtered and destroyed. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today is a great day that even vindicates the struggles of the Independent Greeks. I would remind you that you have repeatedly described in the past as unrealistic our demand for compensation that the German state owes to our country. We have said this since the beginning of our establishment. We understand you because it is of course unrealistic to ask for justice from those with whom you are committed and bound to interests. The Independent Greeks owe no note to any interest and we answer only to the voice of the true ruler of this country, who is the Greek people. And that's why we're continuing and we're going to continue our struggle so that Greece can regain all that commitment to fair interests and behind-the-scenes cooperatives have been wasted all these years. The fact that the German state has never fulfilled its obligations towards our country is to a large extent the result of discussions with exogenous factors that have taken place under the table and have come out in the light in recent years and are clearly the most important cause of the economic crises or a key element in the economic crises which have injured our country. It is true, of course, that German compensation, ladies and gentlemen, could never be required if Greece did not become strong again in the geostrategic and geopolitical setting. We could not even talk about them if Greece did not come out of the best terms of the memos and we did not prove to be a serious and responsible state throughout the world. The fact that Greece is again becoming a valuable ally of every country seeking stability and peace is now an integral link of the global energy corridors is a prerequisite to getting what is due to us. Anyone who has a very little knowledge of the situation and has the good will and the superiority must admit that a central protagonist among the pioneers of this effort and these developments has been and is Panos Kammenos and with him all the Independent Greeks, a line and a leader who keep the promises, who will continue to fight for the homeland, whatever hits we accept under the band of enemies and friends. I'll speak in detail about the damages. Our claims are divided into two fundamental categories. These have been analysed by other colleagues, you will allow me to say very valuablely by the present Mrs Deputy Minister. The first is our demand for the alleged repayment of the forced mortgage which Greece - without its consent and will - granted partial payments to Germany in the years 1941 to 1944. This money was moved through a special account of the Bank of Greece and was much more than the current nutritional needs of the German hiring army, which were covered by the 1907 Hague Convention. Overall and without any doubt this amount amounts to 1.5 million war drachmas, which for that time amounted to one and a half to two-and-a-half-year GDP. Since, of course, since the terrible period of war and German occupation to date, there have been numerous devaluations in the drachma currency, and also because the abolition of the drachma since 2001 and its replacement from the euro has required an internationally credible methodology, a reliable methodology is needed to convert the war drachmas to a stable value internationally. Such a method is that of the golden rule. So we use this method, by converting the exact amount of the mortgage, i.e. the sum mentioned earlier -1 quadrillion of 302 million war drachmas of the year 1944, with the most lenient calculation in gold pounds of old England. The result of the calculation gave the amount of 106 million 166 thousand 973 pounds of England gold. This amount, then, gives us some EUR 26 billion in gold correspondence. But last but not least, it is also a useful part of the calculation that this calculation of the interest on late retirement of the German State begins, for a return to Greece, which is a painful way of claiming from the subscribed loan for the years 1941-1944. In the same German documents as the order for the Greek domicile administration to disburse those sums, the full repayment of the sums due, i.e. 10 months after the last disbursement, i.e. 1 September 1945, was accepted. At this point in time, on 1 September 1945, Germany was required, according to its own written confessions, to return this amount to us of some 26 billion capital, which obviously never did. Greece has always made clear, stable and repeated over the entire period up to now, correctly making financial communications for the repayment of the loan. Indeed, the fact that the Greek claims are strong is confessed by Germany itself, which, on 31-3-1967, in response to a Greek relevant financial communication, fully accepts that Greece has legitimate claims on the loan and on the corrections, from which it has never resigned or, of course, has never been possible to resign. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance. The amount of the interest rate must be determined in accordance with international economic practices. One of the criteria for determining the amount of interest is the usefulness and benefit of the money for the borrower but also the borrower. Another criterion is the damage suffered by the borrower and the money is separated from his economy. The third and safest, clearer and more urgent criterion for determining the mid-term interest rate for the loan is that of interest rates - coupons, government bonds, which the States have given to international banks or other states as a guarantee in order to borrow. This average rate is 3% to 5% per annum. For example, the example of the United States, which, for several decades after World War II, had been lending midterms at an annual rate of about 5%. It should also be noted that Deutsche Bank was calling on the Americans who had borrowed Germany to receive as repayment the German government bonds which would expire in 2010 at a rate of 3% especially since 1995. Consequently, and given that Greece is leasing all these decades after World War II at more than 3% interest rates, it is clear that the calculation of the interest rate at 3% is certainly epic. On the basis of all the above, i.e. the capital of the holding loan of some 26 billion, with an annual loan rate of about 3% and a maturity of overdue Germany to date, that is, seventy-four years, the total debt of Germany from the mortgage loan is currently EUR 83 billion 191 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u142	Ms. Charuha, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u143	But this sum, ladies and gentlemen, has inside the soul, it has blood, it has damage and not simple numbers. This amount was missing from our parents, from the children, missing from social welfare, missing from the country's infrastructure, which came out of the world war. The Independent Greeks since 2015 we have had...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u144	Mrs. Charuha, please. You've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u145	I will stop my speech if you want me to be consistent in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u146	I'm so sorry. You know that speaking time is seven minutes and the Bureau has also shown tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u147	But I would remind you that the Independent Greeks do not have a parliamentary group and we have an obligation, Mr President, if I may...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u148	How much more tolerance to show? Both the next colleagues and the parliamentary representatives will rightly protest, Do not forget that we have set a limit, so that we can finish around nine o'clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u149	You have given too many colleagues the right to speak over time. Everyone spoke much more, Mr President. I say this with all due respect to the Bureau. I am closing down to show my respect for the Bureau, to which I have tabled. So we come to the fundamental kind of demands of Greece and German debts. This is dissociable or must be separated and under no circumstances must there be a legal remedy for both cases at the same time as, unfortunately, some propose. I won't make the calculations. But what I can say and commit, which the Independent Greeks have done since the beginning, is that we can all fight together as a country. We Independent Greeks, together with all those who believe that we must demand and take back what Germany owes us, and all the arguments that the government has made quite rightly and correctly, and we are all associated with them, must ask for what belongs to us for the soul of our country, for the soul of all the people who are killed and destroyed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u150	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the "Electronics VENIZELOS" Hall and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-three students and students and two teachers from the 6th High School of Stavroupolis of Thessaloniki (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The parliamentary spokesman for SYRIZA, Mr Tsakalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had the hope that today all the wings of the constitutional arch, aware of the history of the day, would be placed on the basis of the necessary understanding, unanimity and unity. I had hoped that the rapporteur for Officerial Response would today recognize the mistaken attitude of his party, which in July 2016 voted against the committee's report. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Instead, despite the New Democracy's positive attitude yesterday at the Conference of Presidents in relation to the resolution that we will be voting on tonight, Mr Javaras stayed in the same view and even with the same arguments that had been developed in July 2016. Without presenting another report with different content, after disagreeing with the majority text, the Members of the New Democracy tabled a text of two pages justifying their disagreement as follows. Firstly, because the majority allegedly adopted requests for private and wrongdoing - that is what Mr Javarra said - claims. Secondly, because the majority allegedly did not exploit the material of the two previous committees. Thirdly, because the majority allegedly interfered with the big national issue and the claims of individuals. Fourthly, because the majority allegedly went to meetings to make use of the case. Mr Javarras said so today that the demands of individuals, on the basis of the plenary decision to set up the committee, are contained as one of the four arms of the motion, and he said that the committee had unanimously decided that all the actions proposed, including the international conference, would be taken after the conclusion was issued. Let us make it clear: this case is not available for communication use and for opposition crowns. It's not offered for a split speech. It's not available for intelligence. The only thing Mr. Javaras didn't talk about today is for the tanker. He said that the majority of the committee was swept away from the coup d'état of the State's Legal Council and prophesied that any attempt at court - if any - would be a failure to claim the debts. He proposed that the matter be internationalised, which will lead to a withdrawal of Germany, which will pay the debts. If I understand correctly, that is the suggestion of Officer Response, and on the basis of it, of course, is judged. On the other hand, Hitler's praisers in the committee in 2016 were reserved for their vote, which they would announce in plenary. Today they were unreserved. We have never heard the word nazi or atrocious from their representatives once. Expected that, too. Finally, it has been said by several speakers that the government is supposed to bring this matter to plenary at a suspicious time, meaning its pre-election. Of course they realise that the memoranda had to be terminated, so that Greece would not be considered to raise the issue in settling.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u152	Who was it expected from?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u153	You're not listening to me. I wasn't talking about you. I talked about the extreme right wing. In order not to be considered to be compatible with the internal market, the Commission considers that Greece has put the matter in clear terms. But the opposition word also goes beyond logic many times. Ladies and gentlemen, about seventy-five years after the country was released from the Nazi occupation troops and since the end of the Second World War, the Greek Parliament is dealing with the question of claiming German debts. This is, in my opinion, a historic day. Today, as representatives of the nation and the Greek people, we are called upon to do a high moral, historical, national and patriotic debt. It should contribute in terms of consensus, unanimity and unity, thus contributing to the unity of the Greeks. The demand for compensation for damages other than maturity is also palliative and the Greeks are primarily seen as moral as a demand for justice. We are dealing with it as a request for constant and continuous memory and for it to be enforced in ignorance and oblivion. We are dealing with this as a request for constant vigilance of collective consciousness and enduring resistance to Nazism and fascism. Personally, I feel a great honour, which I have the potential as one of the authors of the debated report, to present not only my opinion but also my feelings, who are able to express my gratitude and pay tribute to the memory of not only my own ancestors but also of all the men and women who have paid high honors, resisting and resisting the irrationality and intolerance of Naziism and fascism, the ideology that is a brake on the cultural evolution of man, to all those who have paid for their lives, with their physical integrity, with their incarceration in concentration camps, forced labour, imprisonment, and destruction of their property. To pay tribute to children, women and men victims of Holocausts, Distomos, Kommeni, Kalavryta, Candano, Zagorochoria, Chortiatis, Klisoura and everywhere in Greece. The posted, since 2015 in Room 151 of the Parliament, a gift map of Sarantos Theodoropoulos - was here this morning - with the pyropolised and bombed villages marked with red circles causing horror, confirms what Churchill said: If there was no manhood and generosity of the Greeks, the outcome of World War II would be uncertain. In studying this map, one wonders whether the term atrocity we use for the dreadful crimes of the Nazis can give full effect to the horror of their actions or are diligent. Our homeland paid a heavy blood tax to the war and the Occupation. In 1939 Greece’s total population was seven million, thirty - five thousand. The 1945 official document shows that the proportion of victims in this total population is 19.7%. To understand this appalling size, I would mention the following comparative figures: France 2.55% of the population, the Netherlands 2.55%, Czechoslovakia 2.44%, Luxembourg 2.33%, Belgium 2.24%, Great Britain 1.55%, the United States 0.66%, Yugoslavia 13.83%. This figure corresponds to five hundred and fifty - eight thousand deceased and eighty - eighty - thousand disabled. A total of one million four hundred thirty-five thousand victims. Ladies and gentlemen, the report under discussion is based on its legal aspect on the finding of 31-1-2014 of the Working Party of the Legal Council of State, and on its economic part on the report of the Special Committee of the General Accounting Board of State of 30-12-2014. To the members of these groups, the House and the Greek people owe a great deal of thanks for the hard, consistent and responsible work they have done, as we owe them, dear Trinity, a great thank you - you said so in the morning - to the attending members of the various institutions. The committee based on this work continued and completed, as set out in the plenary decision, the gathering and documentation in an organised manner of the undeniable historical data. As an objective, the effective reinforcement of the Greek arguments, the claim of the debtors and the co-existence of other European forces and international organisations in this effort, including the making of contacts with other European parliaments and with the European Parliament and with European and international bodies that have dealt with such cases, as well as the organisation of conferences and lectures on this issue. The Committee's report fully substantiates the injurious events that took place in our country from October 1940 to October 1944. It documentes the killings, injuries and disabilities, imprisonment in camps, imprisonment, removal or destruction of citizens' private property. It documentes the destruction of the country's infrastructure and facilities, its war and military material, its churches, its museums, its homes, its roads and squares, its industries and its ships, its plumbing works, its plantations, its algae, its mines, its forest wealth and so many others. It shall document the forced conclusion of the loan. It documentes the theft of the country's archaeological treasures and gold. The report analyses and quantifies in detail the requirements for each category of damage, i.e. the requirements of the Greek State and the private of the Greek citizens. The demands on Germany relate to both World Wars. The preamble to the report highlights the undeniable fact that Greece never resigned from its general claims to Germany. This is demonstrated by a series of documents, reports, letters, financial communications, other diplomatic movements, oral declarations, etc. For the Greek state, although from the end of the occupation in 1944 to the Treaty of Moscow in 1990 it was not possible to claim legal claims, it has always made a reservation on their future satisfaction both with domestic law, for example, Law 2023 of 1952 and with bilateral conventions, for example, the Bonn Convention on 18-3-1960, but also with official statements of its legitimate representatives. The Greek governments and after 1990, when the Treaty of Moscow came into force, known as the '2 + 4' Treaty, stressed that Greece considered the issue of corrections to be open. In 1995 the Greek Government issued a financial communication to Germany calling for the opening of negotiations to resolve the issue. The years after 1995 factors of the Hellenic Republic have repeatedly stated that the claims remain pending, active and judicially sought. In addition, the German Federal Government, on 6-2-2014, responding to a relevant question from Die Linke, acknowledged that it was not known for any formal final resignation of Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is also analyzed in the report clearly and the position is that Greece's claims have not been waived and that there is no question of their weakening or non-existence, since Greece has never been inertia. I am not going to quantify the demands, the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Mitafidis, mentioned them. I would just like to stress that, for the amounts of the claims in the General Accounting Office of the State, interest has not been calculated, which means that the amounts are much higher. Further on the basis of the conclusion of the Working Party of the Legal Council of State in the Committee's report: First, the legal framework, multilateral conventions, bilateral conventions, internal law governing the grid of Greek claims is detailed. Secondly, it analyses the subjectivity of the facts and all the requirements in the legal framework. Thirdly, the legal issues of non-lettering of claims and judicial proceedings are analysed. Fourthly, appropriate action at diplomatic level is proposed to the Hellenic Republic and if necessary at court level.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u154	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u155	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, the Committee's report proposes to the Hellenic Republic and other actions, which all referred to by Mr. I would just like to point out that all these actions need to be incorporated into a draft national strategy on the issue of German debts, which will be drawn up on the initiative of Parliament and involving all the actors in the Hellenic Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to support all the sides of the constitutional arch in the evening the resolution, we owe it both in the past and in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u156	I invite Mr. Christos Boukoro from New Democracy to Step. Then will Mr. Mitsotakis, Chief of Officer's Response. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the reasonable question of whether it is a fair state that was destroyed by German occupation troops seventy-five years ago to claim compensation, redress and lending, I think the answer is affirmative and deafening. Greece is right to claim. Of course, it is not enough in our world to be right whether it is a natural person or a state entity, but, above all, to want and know to claim it. Since the current management of the matter some questions arise and let me start with the current ones. Is it respect for the collective memory, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, but also for the victims of the Nazi atrocity, the fact that a report by the competent parliamentary committee was completed in 2016 and is currently being discussed in 2019, three whole years later even in an election time? Of course the excuse not to identify with our loan obligations modern and all that from Germany has been poorly convinced, since such efforts have been made since the 1912s to the14s and, as I will say below, a great deal of work has been done. The second question is how much supports the Greek claims by Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras's well-known statement from March 2015 at the first meeting with German Chancellor, Mrs Angela Merkel, where Mr. Tsipras said that the issue for Greece is primarily ethical, neglecting to raise the legal and economic issues of the issue and the aspects that we are discussing today. Finally, after three parliamentary committees, I would like to ask myself and put the following question: Is there a fundamental job or is there a communication of one, indeed, popular for the Greek people? The previous committee, the first committee, the Javarra committee headed by Mr Kostas Javarra, has really done a job of substance, an in-depth job. False witnesses to the work of that committee are the reports of the General Accounting Office of the State and the Legal Board of the State. Then came the committee with President Ms Constantopoulos and today. We are being delayed and delayed, and, of course, it is being discussed in the Chamber today and it has been heard in some respects that the Greek Governments have been delayed for seven, eight decades. We all know that it was the 1953 London Agreement, which referred to the issues of redress and compensation in time after the reunification of the two Germans. That's well known. As the brutal left-wing propaganda in the country collapsed, I believe today that, with the payment of voluntary compensation paid by West Germany in March 1960 by West Germany, I mean 115 million Marks, particularly for the Greek Jews, the issue was closed by the then governments of Constantine Karamanlis. The issue was raised at that time with that energy, because it was a first recognition. From that point on, and to come to today, it is necessary to stress that, of course, the greatest break with Germany was the period of occupation '41-44, the years of occupation and of Nazi atrocity, war dinners, executions, two hundred thousand victims of famine, hunger, mainly in Athens, but also in other regions, destruction of infrastructure, archival businesses, which is a very big capital at that time. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, since the war we have also been in the same camp as our former conquerors. And I would gladly say that we were in this camp, because there was a serious danger of being in another camp with unforeseen consequences. However, we are coming to today shortly before the elections and I would particularly call on the majority to limit political communication and start political action and, above all, on the issue of the mortgage and not just on the issue of the debt issue. Knowing the issue and the universities that have from time to time come to the committees of the Parliament, they say it is the most claimable thing. In any case, the claims made by individuals who have started through the judiciary on the issue of damages are a very important issue and must have the support of the Greek state. But, as the experts say, this issue has a chance of being justified, it must be made like internationally. And this is done by strategic planning and by professionals of the species, not by political communication for internal consumption alone. After all, let us also fund any overproduction for the crimes of Nazi atrocity in Greece, because something more will have to tell us from the works and days of Mr Varoufakis, which are financed by the current government. It is only in this way that a course of justice will begin in our view. This does not mean, in any case, abandoning the judicial process. Only in this way will collective memory be justified, the country, but also the victims of Nazi atrocity. Only so will my own compatriots, such as the eighteen who were executed in the martyr village of Drakia of Drakia of Pelion by German occupation troops, the thirty-five executed of Almyros by Italian occupation troops, the descendants of the inhabitants of the whole burnt villages of Miles and Rizzomylos, as well as in dozens of cities and villages throughout the country. We therefore call on you to have less political communication and more political action on this national issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u158	I call to Stepma Mr. Mitsotakis, President of the New Democracy and Chief of Staff of the Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I felt the need to speak today for three reasons: firstly, because I would also like to pay tribute to a sitting of this House, dedicated to a very important issue of a national nature. Secondly, because it is my duty, following the speeches made by the New Democracy Members, to restore some truths, which, unfortunately, are at risk of being lost in the impressions and the propagandaist irresponsibility of the government. Thirdly, because I want to describe briefly and in simple terms what the position of the New Democracy is about how Greece should move from now on on to the issue of German debts. Mr Javarras and my fellow Members of the New Democracy have explained in a way that I believe that the New Democracy has voted against the relevant report of the parliamentary committee, explaining why, in our assessment, this committee was not finally to the extent of the circumstances and expectations that had been cultivated when it was established. I would like to make it clear at the very first moment that we obviously agree and will be voting in favour of the intergroup text, prepared by the Bureau of Parliament, as the least common place to meet the political forces of the democratic arch, against this important historical flaw that our country has. But I think it is extremely important in this Chamber to speak the language of truth and to try, as far as possible, to keep this debate away from timely communication pursuits in which, unfortunately, the government has been accustomed to us lately. Certainly the fact that this debate takes place in April 2019 and the finding of the relevant committee has been completed and submitted since 2016 does not make us extremely optimistic. You do not become very believers when you say that this issue is dealt with in politically neutral time and that you do not intend to obtain any other benefits from this debate. So let's actually go. Truly the first: New Democracy has been the party that has handled with responsibility, adequacy and realism this extremely complex legal issue, namely the German corrections and the Greek loan, as well as the compensation for private individuals, who have been victims of nazi atrocities. I would remind you, therefore, that in September 2012, in the General Accounting Office of the State, at the request of the then Deputy Minister, Christos Staikouras, a special group of senior officials was set up, which, for the first time, recorded, classified, protected all the archives related to this issue. Within five months there were seven hundred sixty files and volumes, a comprehensive report was drawn up to the relevant Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which also bears the essential responsibility of this negotiation. This is the material which the Greek state has previously invoked. In April 2013, this report was forwarded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Legal Adviser of the State, in order to assess and legally establish the claims of the Greek State, and this was indeed the case. The Law Council of the State, however, at the beginning of 2014 again requested the Ministry of Finance to quantify the claims claimed by the Greek State. A new Special Committee was therefore set up, with a deadline for the completion of the project on 30 December 2014. The full conclusion of this committee was finally submitted to the Ministry of Finance. I would like to point out here something that anyone who is well aware of. This is the only time-consuming lesson for German debts and the mortgage loan that the Greek state, each Greek government, has, and is the only official deposited positions from Athens to Berlin. And that's a New Democracy project. Really second. On a parliamentary level now, we are the first to have, without resorting to communication impressions, essentially to highlight this issue. In March 2014, at the request of Manolis Glezou, the then President of the Parliament, Evangelos Meimarakis, decided to set up a intergroup committee. The President was elected by Mr Javaras, Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Glezos, Secretary, Mr Saltouros. This committee met on several occasions, met with several bodies, studied the material gathered by the services, programmed concrete actions, always working with experts. It also adopted the suggestions made by two major professors of public international law, Mr Bredima and Professor Perraki, who, apart from their legal contribution, also proposed a policy campaign, communist, at many levels, in order to create international support for Greek positions. This is because we knew and knew - and we do not have any illusions - that the legal path was predicted and is projected to be difficult on purpose. Unfortunately, that committee did not have time to complete its work, as did the services. You know him very well. The polls came in January 2015. However, the conclusions of that committee, of the Javara Committee, are the only and most complete ones available to the Greek Parliament today. These were also adopted by the next committee set up by Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou. The fact that Mrs Constantopoulos has given Mr Javarra the credit for the completeness of his work, I think she says a lot about how essential the work done in this committee was. Really third now: Let's go see what happened since 2015. Despite the great words, despite the theatrical moves, despite the constant and systematic invoicing of this issue in the election speech of SYRIZA, but also of the Independent Greeks, the Tsipras Government effectively absent these four years from this national effort. I would like to remind you that the last essential document, clear document, active claim, remains the private announcement of the previous government. It is a private communication served by the Germans in Berlin on January 16, 2015. The statements by the then Vice-President of the Government and Foreign Minister, Mr Venizelos, who reiterates that the Greek claims remain active. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Behold. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is an initiative, which clearly needs to be updated today, but also as far as I know is the last official initiative, which was taken by a Greek government on the issue of German allowances. For four years, SYRIZA has forgotten the wrestlings of the era that was in the opposition. So we also had another spectacular asshole on the issue of German allowances. After so many political Kitch events, even the Army band I remember playing insurgently in the Parnassus hall, - yes, Mr. Kammenos did that too! - we have finally come to a text in today's resolution which, as I said before, is the least common place, the self-evident repetition of the time-consuming demand, not only from the Greek governments, but also from the Greek society. Mr Tsipras himself, who sold patriotisms, lionisms, other patriotic sensations, what did he have to say when she first met with Mrs Merkel? I remember that this was the time of great controversy. So what did Mr. Tsipras say? He said two things. "I want to repeat that this initiative to re-establish his request for military redress and the issue of forced loan is nothing new. It was also done by the previous government.' And it goes on, adding something to me, which gives me a question. I would really like Mr. Tsipras to be here and he could answer. Maybe he'll do it then. 'And it does not concern any material claim'. It does not concern any material claim, Mr. Tsipras said in March 2015. He then adds that "is a bilateral theme special", listen to it, please, "which is primarily moral to us and not material value". Mrs Merkel responded after the fixed positions of the German Government. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In other words, you, as opposition, were unwilling to bring back German debts and as a government you told us that the issue is simply moral and has no financial impact. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I wonder how easy or difficult you make the lives of any government - we think that we will be the next government - up to your government, Madam Minister, when they were recorded in Chancellorship, in front of German Chancellor, the Greek Prime Minister says that the matter is moral. So it could be closed with an apology, with an apology and that there is no economic object in this case. I, ladies and gentlemen, am not here to hide anything from the Greek people nor to play impression games. With honesty, I'll tell the National Representation today that no matter how sacred our claim is, it's so difficult. We are all aware of the legal complexity of demanding transnational claims in international justice, as well as of the decision of the International Court of Justice in the dispute between Italy and Germany on the issue of German allowances, which Greece had made at the time, and which was not positive for Italy, for which Greece had intervened. Of course, the Greeks who have been victims of the Nazi atrocities are entitled and must be able to continue claiming compensation. However, the most important pretext on which Greece must build its own legal claim with courage, responsibility and pragmatism exists in the case of the mortgage loan. In particular, this claim is certainly open and politically possible. And it must be our priority. At this point they agreed, and in this Chamber in 1990, Constantine Mitsotakis and Charilaos Florakis. "On a legal side, I categorically declare that our demands created by World War II remain," said Constantine Mitsotakis at that time. In particular, he emphasised on the mortgage loan "is a special form". Indeed, it is a peculiarity, a unique one in the history of World War II. Constantine Mitsotakis added "I do not know whether there are similar cases in other countries". They don't really exist. Where appropriate, a case involving Poland. Indeed, the loan is a peculiar one. But Constantine Mitsotakis and something else important. That, that is, politically, the country must maintain the issue bilaterally and in the light of other international developments. To move, in other words, with realism, not with so-called heroic gestures that will fall into the void, but with moves that will work. Because that is our goal, not to create temporary impressions. I quote from this extremely topical debate, which had taken place twenty-nine years ago. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That was what a politician of the National Representation, who experienced as few of the atrocities of World War II, who was sentenced twice to death by the nazis, who, the make news of the time, deserved ancestors of your own montazier then dared to present as a partner of the Germans. Twenty-nine years after these findings, in my assessment, remain in absolute force and give the right measure of political reality in relation to the case of German allowances. These are words that must remain our firm compass in this national effort no matter how long it lasts. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing down with an observation relating to the forthcoming European elections. This debate on German compensation brings back to our memory the darkest period in the history of a dark continent, as it called Europe in a recent book by Mark Mazauer. We must not forget - and I think it is useful that all the wings of the democratic arch should be repeated - that, behind the creation of the first form of economic cooperation between European countries, it was precisely this deep faith of the people who experienced the tragedy of World War II that Europe must never again live in a tragedy like that of World War II. Economic cooperation and the awareness of this common cultural past are the best response to weapons and to sterile competition between states. To achieve at least this objective despite the problems and weaknesses of the great European Union, this unique experiment in the history of world history, a transnational cooperation of independent states, in this respect - and not only to that end - was absolutely successful. And since we're talking about cultural empathy, I think we're all sad, maybe some of us were tearing up, when we saw the Virgin Mary of Paris in flames, because in France a part of our soul was burned. The generation of war, which has laid the foundations of a united Europe, is no longer with us and the spoon is now passing on to our generation. The challenge is to stand firm towards both nationalists and populists, from where they come from, who want to demolish what has been so hard to achieve. But Europe will endure, as the Virgin Mary of Paris has finally endured and will be rebuilt with new materials for a new era. With this historical bet, we will also be called upon in our turn, like previous generations, to write our own story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u160	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I invite Mr Thivaios from SYRIZA, then Mr Pafile, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Thebes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Consider that Mr Mitsotakis had not risen and with a consensual attitude at the Step on today's subject. Even the 1990 'SPIEGEL' reports charged them to the Government of SYRIZA. That's one of the unspeakable. It shows, if you like, the seriousness with which they have been dealing with the issue of German allowances all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u162	Looks like you didn't hear them well or heard them alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u163	Today's debate on the basis of the report by the intergroup on German debts is historic and, in my view, has two objectives. Firstly, the historical, economic, political and ethical record and documentation of German allowances. Secondly, the development of a national policy on this particular issue that will bind and mobilise the Greek governments in actions and synergies, which will lead to the vindication of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only assure you that thousands of visitors to the martyrdom perceive the extent of destruction, suffering and collective responsibility for the justice of the victims of Nazism. The inhabitants of the Diastomos, with the operation of the Museum of Victims of Nazism, which will soon be upgraded to museum by decision of the President of the Parliament, have managed to keep the subject of the corrections alive, having as guide the historical decision of the Multi-State Court of Livade, in November 1977, on the prefecture of the late Ioannis Stamoulis. In Boeotia, from Distomo to Livadia and Dervenochoria there are dozens of people’s evidence of Nazi occupation troops. Anniversary events are a form of honor and memory. It is not enough, however, to make a strong, social and political demand for military redress. Historical events are a little - very well known to the Greeks. However, the extent of the disaster caused by the triple occupation in our country is truly inconceivable. Extensive parts of the Greek population experienced absolute impoverishment, which is the result of the existing material and is documented by a number of unshakable testimonies and historical documentaries. While events speak for themselves, demanding justice is not an easy case. The German Ambassador's recipe in Athens in 1969 is indicative of Germany's strategy. "It would be in our interest to maintain this interim situation as much as possible so that the claims of our opponents then either retired or failed," he said at the time. On the contrary, many are German scientists, politicians and citizens who perceive and support the fairness of our people. In any case, the legal and moral justice of our victims and our people as a whole will certainly form the basis for a friendly and honest relationship between the German and Greek people. In other words, both countries will only win from reaching a solution to compensation. Today's debate on the claim of German debts, based on the report of the intergroup committee of Parliament, highlights the need for strong historical knowledge, especially in youth. Really, why not know that the victims of Nazism in our country were about one and a half million of the seven and a half million Greek people then? Why not know the size of the material disasters, the theft of our country's cultural treasures by Nazi occupation troops? The more one looks at the conclusion of the committee, the more he is convinced that the need to claim German debts is a national matter. Any attempt to correct and equate the victim with the victim will lead to the best case of oblivion and resignation and possibly the hatching of the snake's egg, as we have seen in recent years in Europe, but also in our country. Today's historic decision of the House must be accompanied by actions and synergies that mobilize the people's factor, highlighting the issue of debts on a social demand. This can be done with the help of all the actors and organisations that have taken the lead so far, of local government, of universities, of cultures and others. Any government initiatives at legal, diplomatic and economic level should be of public assistance. In the field of education, information initiatives, historical deepening with international conventions, postgraduate and doctoral studies, student and student exchange programs, which will demonstrate with openness and dignity the historical and national law of our country as a precondition for the friendship of the two peoples. In the field of culture, interventions should be made not only to return the stolen archaeological treasures and church relics but actions and events that highlight through art the value of human life and the ecumenicality of peace. Local government, in cooperation with the network of martial cities and villages, should step up its actions by opening up the cycle of the martyr villages and by internationalising the request of the captive debts. The above synergies that are active in society are a valuable and necessary ally in government initiatives to claim the debts. In today's plenary it is appropriate to reflect the responsibility of all democratic parties to tackle the phenomenon of the extreme right-wing fascist threat in our country and in Europe, the need to isolate splitting and civil war messages, racist and homophobic practices. Especially now should we not forget that fascism does not just want to be told about his crimes but asks to take the rematch. Let's never forget that. Thousands of the dead, thousands of the huge disasters. But what cannot be calculated, ladies and gentlemen, is the historical consequences of unspeakable destruction. Does anyone wonder what our country would be like today without the atrocities and material damage suffered during the war and the Occupation? What would the history of Greece be, after war, if the place had not met this atrocity? In this sense, the claims made by the Greek State describe the minimum that one might demand. Furthermore, these claims are never recorded as stated in the Hague Convention. With today's decision, they will follow a series of moves at political, legal, diplomatic and social levels, both within and outside the country, which must be planned and implemented. This is our debt, and we must fulfil it. We, the present representatives of the Greek people, owe it to the victims of the past. We owe it to modern Greek citizens, we owe it to future generations. We are bringing this debt against not only the Greek people, but against the entire humanity. We are bringing this debt against history, against collective memory, against the very concept of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u164	Thank you. I call on Mr Athanasio Pafili, a Parliamentary representative of the JRC for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much. We have also been placed in detail with the speech of our party's Secretary-General and with our rapporteur and our speaker. We want to say, without a hint of predicament, that we are proud as a Communist Party of Greece because we have never stopped, even in the most difficult conditions, where the horrific ones were “scattered and beaten by slavery, to keep raising the issue of German corrections and indemnifications, when others “did the duck” in common and now they come to make criticisms and comment and they don’t listen. We are also proud that the Communist Party of Greece was the blood donor of the National Resistance, it was those communists who handed them the Metaxas regime over to the Germans who escaped and created the great surveillance of the National Resistance, EAM, ELAS and EPA. And here come the killers - criminal fascists of the Golden Dawn with courage to speak of German compensation. The people say that they are shattered, because they sincerely expressed what they believe, what they would ask would be for the Greek people to pay compensation for the damage they caused, for the losses of German soldiers. That would be what they would ask if they had the courage, but they are 'cuts', as the people say. Because while they say it's the generation of the defeats of 1945, Michael's said it and he's humiliated, because he went to disprove it later, while they say it all, they don't have the courage and they come here and swing our fingers. Who's that? The descendants of the Nazi associates, the Tamaslayers who were photographed next to hanged Greeks, the descendants of those who wrote: "They lose their days, to German soldiers", the descendants of those who vowed faith in Hitler. And so they don't deny it, what was their main slogan? Glory and honor to the hippies and battalions. So these German partners, those who supported the black-builders who became Zamplus after - I do not want to talk about what was followed - those who took teeth out of executed and sold them, those who blackmailed families whole because they were security workers - and we know, Merlin here next door is - and they took properties whole, those who have swasticides on their arms, they dare to invoke the JRC. We gave a lot of blood, too much blood as a party. And not just us. Other wider than the Greek people, and we are proud of that and we accept nothing. We are ready to do this again at any time, to crush fascism, which is the most cruel form of capital power. For seventy-four years, therefore, the question of compensation has not been resolved. Why is that? Was it legal? No, purely political. His explanation, to go deeper, may also be given to Greece - because most countries receiving compensation were socialist countries - are about what happened after World War II. Because fascism, whatever we say, is the birth of the capitalist system itself, is its genuine child, it is the most extreme form of capital power and it has proved historically. Who handed over power to Hitler? Meeting of the major industries, the 'SIEMENS', the 'KRUPP', the 'THESSEN', etc. And they decided Hitler. A meeting was held before he was handed over, before he gave the order to Hideburg, all the German banking groups and they decided Hitler. Why? Because they believed it could carry out the war, to redistribute the markets lost in World War I for the benefit of German capital. Who refused the anti-fascist front proposed by the Communist Party of Germany? The Social Democrats, your current progressives - because descendants are - the progressive front you are setting up. What did the allies do? And the word 'allies' means the United States, the capitalist countries. The Munich deal. Yugoslavia was handed over and then accused of the Soviet Union. What else did they do? The American monopolies were supplying all the time, even during the war. Yes or no? Did Ford or didn't Ford falsify Hitler? And why did he do it? Because they thought it would crush the Soviet Union. The war is over. What happened after the war? Nuremberg court turned one with the soldiers. Decisions were taken with hard confrontation by the Americans and Soviets as to whether or not the SS criminals and the Hitler army were responsible. It became a second, not known by the world and not by the youth, and it is not taught, Mr Gavroglou and gentlemen of the schools. The second was the industrialists who supported Hitler, who was interrupted and vetoed by the United States of America. What else happened in early 1944 before the war ended? Dales deal, but instead. The chief of the CIA, OSS, then. With who? With Miller, the leader of the Gestapo. What did the deal say? "You will deliver to us the spy network that you have made in the Soviet Union and will flee the criminals", as it happened. What else happened next? In 1949 NATO was founded. Two hundred sixty Hitler Generals went straight to NATO and became European Commander. In 1960 they served a hundred and sixty generals who had been convicted of war crimes. These were generally the political reasons why governments should not speak and not claim from Germany, which the imperialists raised for their own political reasons. I want to make a reference to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u166	Can you close it, Mr. Paphie?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u167	If I may, Mr President. We still have two speakers. It's playing, it says, the game in the European Union. Really? Yes, sir. So let's see what the European Union has done over the last few years, not long ago, I'll tell you from 2000 onwards, not even before: Firstly, a change of 9 May from anti-fascist victory day to day in Europe. To erase the anti-fascist victory. Second, the equation of the perpetrator with the victim. Is that possible? Twenty million dead Soviets, five million communists on the front line? Crush fascism and compare Hitler and Stalin? Incidentally, Stalin with yesterday's poll has 70% popularity for the first time in today's capitalist Russia. What else? Resolutions that indirectly acquit fascism. What else? Recognition of the Waffen SS in the Baltic countries as resistance, pensions to those of the SS who murdered seven thousand children and abducted by the European Union. He was guarded for hitting SS patrol and sat - I don't remember - seven, eight years in prison in Latvia. Why am I saying this? I'll say more. Estonia's Interior Minister celebrates Hitler's birthday with Hitler's theatrical monologue before committing suicide. What else? In 2006, the counter-revolution is celebrated - we - in Hungary. And who is in charge of the European Union? General of the SS, cooperating with the Germans. And he enters the head of celebrating so-called freedom. What else does he do? He deserves Bandera's Ukrainian fascists and supports the status of fascists in Ukraine today. Today they set up statues of the Nazis and tear down statues of the anti-fascists. And Mr. Piatt was there. Something must tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u168	Please close, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u169	I'm done. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I have asked questions from the Group of the European People's Party about what I have said, apart from the positions in which the GUE has been indifferent to many of them. The answer was that we can't take a position, we don't care. And do you really expect this European Union to support the Greek people's right request for German allowances? Who are you kidding? Wait for a Progressive Front? With who? With all those who have done these gruesome things, justifying fascism? Who were they? The People's Party, the Social Democrats, part of the GUE - not all of us, to be objective - and the liberals, that is, the political forces that support the European Union. What did Mr. Younger say when we sent a letter? Listen: 'The European Union does not have the power to speak of German allowances'. But for Venezuela, for Cuba, for Libya, for what is happening on the side of the planet, and even for some nuns in Vietnam, the European Union has competence. He's coming out, he's denounced, and so on. Therefore, these are your partners. And also, there's something I want to say for a long time. Well, who do you think we're talking about? With thieves? The English have the Parthenon Marmaras and they don't give it and you're allies! Is that the European vision? The Germans have devastated Greece's culture. And all governments, social democrats, etc. all these years - not even common thieves were - they don't give them back! Are you waiting for them? That's what you all support!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Paphie, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u171	I'm done. That is why the people in the European elections, along with all the rest, should also have this in mind. And all the theories about "Progressive Front" and extreme right are in the air and are proved by works. Therefore, both the JRC and the world on the road and not to waste the story of the "progressive" and "reactionive" forces, because they have the same politics and values. We give them the allies, take them away, the thieves of the archaeological treasures other than the ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u172	Thank you. Indeed, the debate is very revealing no matter how much time we all speak. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-nine students and students and three teachers from the 1st High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the Chief of the Democratic Association, Mr. Gennimata.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of German allowances is open to us. Greece's claims for German debts remain legally and economically active in a single and indivisible three-fold moral and legal issue: war compensation and war redress, repayment of the mortgage, reimbursement of stolen archaeological treasures and church relics. The democratic party and the PASOK are the political force that has signed every important post in the promotion of the issue and in the claim of the corrections. First George Papandreou spoke in 1965 with courage about their need for their vindication. In 1995, Andreas Papandreou along with the then Minister of Foreign Affairs Charles Papoulias, and Deputy Minister of State Georgios - Alexandros Magakis, proceeded with the most emblematic act of claim. He requested the immediate opening of negotiations with Germany on the Land loan with the service of a financial communication to the German Government and with the clear wording that Greece never gave up its rights. This action was repeated in the coming years with a number of diplomatic actions, until shortly before the 2015 elections, with a relevant financial communication by Evangelos Venizelos as Minister of Foreign Affairs. For many years the issue has remained at the top of the national agenda. The PASOK supported every move and every action that was involved in claiming and satisfying the legitimate demands of our country, as well as the families of the victims of Nazi crimes. He strongly supported the preaching of Manolis Glezou and all democratic citizens, who have so far not ceased to seek justice and justice. He stood next to Giannis Stamoulis and the legal claim for compensation for the massacre in Distomo. And then, in 2011, Greece, by decision of Prime Minister, George Papandreou, intervened in the International Court of The Hague itself to support the execution of court rulings against the German public. In 2012, the Minister of Justice Miltiadis Papaioannou and the Deputy Minister of Finance Philip Sahinides asked for new information on the property of the German State in Greece. The case came to the House to set up a intergroup committee and at the same time, a working group on the next steps to be taken by Greece. It is therefore indiscriminate to claim that the Hellenic Republic has so far not raised the question of compensation at political and diplomatic level by Germany. And it is very important to restore historical truth. The case of war damages from World War II and Nazi atrocities cannot be used for micro-party purposes. It concerns national rights and claims that are measurable and specific, which we must approach carefully, but also decisively, within the framework of foreign policy and international law, in a calm and documented manner. Since 2014 proposals have been made for the actions that Greece has to implement on a diplomatic basis and even - if necessary - on a judicial level. These are the same proposals on which the 2016 report, which we are only discussing today in the House, is based. The way to the International Court of Appeal for German debts is open. In spite of the reservations and interpretative difficulties Greece is free and has the right to resort either to a final judgment or to an opinion on the matter. But let's take them one by one. We consider that Germany's refusal to recognise its debts is a violation of international law, which can support our country's appeal to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. We agree - and we have said this before - that the country needs a national strategy for claiming German claims with a pillar of Parliament and establishing a permanent cross-party committee, for substantiating the claim of our national rights with strong legitimacy and historical continuity. We support the establishment of a national committee to promote the proclamation, to make the issue of national but also international, to raise awareness of Greek, German and European public opinion, to make it clear that claiming compensation is not a national obsession. It is a deep question of justice, of history, of education, of a common European identity. Let this opportunity be made, so that Nazism's hideous face can resurface, in a Europe which is armed and awkward today particularly awkward in the face of the rise of right-wing and xenophobia. And it is, ladies and gentlemen, truly sad even in this debate to see the nostalgics of Nazism swinging our fingers in the morning instead of hiding. Especially today they come and speak to us without shame, for a nation, for a homeland, for patriotism, even today when we discuss with emotion and anguish the indelible imprint left by their inspiring. Let them read about unholy crimes, the atrocities of Nazi occupation troops against unarmed and civilians and finally hear it clearly: in this country there is no room for fascism and fascism. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] The report we are debating is a station. It's not the terminal. It takes particular attention to how the Hellenic Republic will make use of the findings of the House, so that it is not possible for evildoers to consider that we are dismissing claims and rights, such as the rights of victims and their relatives, who remain actively. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA has also used this issue as opposition to be in power with crowns and great words. Today, at the end of their term of office, they again remembered German allowances again for election reasons. Everything about the impressions. They're trying to change the agenda from hard policies to manage their defeat coming. On their own responsibility, SYRIZA, is the one who buried the intergroup report for the last three years, a report that has been completed and submitted to the President of Parliament since 2016. On its own responsibility, the SYRIZA Government has not implemented any of the proposals of the Intergroup Committee. Not only has he ever dealt with the substance of the whole case, but he has not even attempted to keep the matter alive on an international and transnational level. We do not forget, of course, that three years now Mr Tsipras has been talking about the need to discuss the report, but he did not bring it to the House. And all this time he was chewing up his words in front of Mrs. Merkel. The matter was absolved with the government's responsibility. Never was made by this government any formal claim of Germany's debts to Greece. And on this issue, of course, it did not make the most of the possibility of political agreement. It was confined to lionisations without substance and without result. Megalosms and cheap communication trick! SYRIZA chose and insisted on the disastrous matching of German allowances and the loan with the Greek fiscal crisis. And on this unscrupulous and erroneous shape he set up a popular crescendo. He encouraged and tolerated the divisive rhetoric that once again divided Greeks into traitors or patriots. They challenged what had taken place in the previous years. They broke up the old committee and decided to set up a new one. And today, four years later, now that they're leaving, now they're bringing it in, to make use of it in communications. Ladies and gentlemen, the tragic history of war will always remain alive. Sacrifices, pain, resistance, passion for freedom do not fade away. The vindication of what Greece is entitled to, and is not alive as revenge, nor as set-off, but as a message of recognition of law and commitment to common principles and values, proof of sincere relationships of friendship in another Europe united and fair. There have been crimes, so many mistakes. Let at least one lesson be left: yesterday's hatred should not be blurred by discord tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gennamas. Mr Arvanitides has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u176	Yeah. Mr. Arvanitides, wait a minute. Mr. Rabbit has been asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u177	First of all, Mr President, I am impressed by your behaviour. We are absent from the Chamber and we are listening to the representative of a party, which has been accused of too much, to talk about murders, criminals, about everything that you, of course, do not protect the elected Members of the third political force. That's your right. Just listen to a few things here, so we can see who the democrats really are, as you want to be proud of. Secondly, it is an honour for us that the descendants of those who slaughtered the villagekeepers and policemen during the gang war - because that was from 1945 to 1949 - are currently talking about us. These people who have an invaluable property and do not give their angel water, literally, are not entitled to talk about these things, especially when their ideological forefather, Zachariadis, said that in this village of fishermen, in which you went and made this treacherous Prespecies Agreement, if they won the gang war, they would give our Macedonia and Thrace. So those who said these things cannot talk about patriotism. And as far as the answer is concerned, they had taken it back to Vitsi and Grammos and if the same answer had to be given again - whenever - they'd call it back whenever they want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u178	What do you think, fascist?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u179	Well, look...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u180	Get out of there, fascist!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u181	Please, come on out or in any case, sit and listen to something. The episode that happened earlier was - look at the Minutes - because Mr Karakostas from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, said about the betrayal government of Papandreou, said about the gang war and about how to claim, instead of today's debate, from the victims of the Communists, and everything else one can imagine. He also gave relevant papers to the Minutes. And Mr Lambroulis, the Vice-President, gave his reply in this context. In the same context, as far as I can see now, we have heard Mr Rabbit, who has come to give further momentum to confront and divide. Those are terrible things, aren't they? For Vicci, for Grammo! It ends here every conversation. It's the fourth time I've heard of it. All right, these gentlemen are characterised by what they say, at least because they have been designated by others in society and are in court. That's well known. We must not, today, fall into the trap of all and all, all the forces of the democratic arch, and into this type of misguided controversy. I very much ask Mr Arvanitides to take the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Paphie, please, no. Isn't the answer I gave you? You're not the only representative of the victims or of the resignations...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u184	But he referred to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u185	No, it's "to us", I'm sorry. See the Minutes to see if it was mentioned to you. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u186	Why did you give him the floor then?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u187	What are you talking about? He had the right as a parliamentary representative to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u188	I, too, want a minute as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u189	Do not replicate this conflict. He's not honoring anyone. We have another very serious issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u190	I'd be done. I just want thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u191	It's about what we're saying, not how fast we're going to finish. You know that. You're more experienced than I am.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u192	What we're saying is you won't disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u193	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u194	So give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u195	I'll give you the floor. All right, say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u196	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u197	Thirty seconds and more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u198	I'm not going to answer or it's a matter of splitting. Here we have the fascists who swear to Hitler and today, who I say again that they are 'cuts' and they do not say it and appear somewhat differently. Take all their texts, take their murder action. Their officials have already been convicted of murderous action against immigrants. They're already Bridge killers. Already Mihalakus has taken political responsibility. History is inadmissible, and as much as attempted to forge it was, they were partners of the German Nazis. They were the ones with Anton Chaus who carried dozens of rebel heads and took ransom from the Bulgarian fascists. That is why the Greek people must know and not be trapped in all this disguise they are trying to make. This is an obligation for every political party and every government to spend this whole story in schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u199	Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's historic day could have the title'Waiting for justice'. Although this finding has been ready since 2016 and the President of the Parliament has made repeated statements that the final conclusion of the committee would come to a debate in plenary at the end of 2018, even today, now, national unity is being put above all. But we're not finished here today. We are at the beginning of a difficult and painful route on the question of claiming German debts and specifying these requirements in order to get to the right. In order to be clear about what German debts we are talking about, these, according to the findings of the special committee of Parliament, relate to four categories for which data and data have been recorded. Firstly, military compensation for material disasters and leaks. Secondly, the war redress of the victims and their relatives. Third, the repayment of the loan. And fourthly, the return of the stolen archaeological treasures and church relics. It is worth pointing out that the finding records due German corrections not only since World War II, but also since World War I, which have not yet been repaid. Today, therefore, the Greek Parliament has to express clearly and in the most official way the national position on this issue. All the state actors now have to put forward this national position and make these specific Greek claims to the German side on every occasion. Already the President of the Republic, during the last visit of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany on 11 October 2018, indicated characteristics that Greece’s claims concerning the loan and the compensation from the time of occupation are legally active and judicially sought. I have to remind you for reasons of historical consistency that, to get to this point, the decision of the PASOK government in 1995, when on 14-11-1995 our Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou instructed the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Charles Papoulias, that the Greek Ambassador, in Berlin, should serve a private communication to the German Government on this matter. From that very moment on, the claim of German debts has been more emphatic on the Greek-German agenda. It is true, however, that the Germans are pursuing a policy of total refusal. They don't even want to discuss the matter and they think it's over, like an issue that doesn't exist. This, I am sure, will change after our decision today. And it will change faster, as Germany puts forward a single, substantiated and decisive attitude to claim debts in all international fora, without minor differences, with national understanding and with historical, legal and political arguments to speak of German debts both in the political class of Germany, in German society and even in the global community. It is important that there should be a transnational mobilisation similar to that for the return of the Parthenon Marbles, so that we can find communications allies on the German side. Our position must be that, for Greece, the issue of German corrections and debts has not been closed politically or legally, as the German side claims. But it cannot feed myths and be exploited by anyone. We cannot and should not also relate it to the memoranda and any commitments we made as a country in recent years. Such a connection can only do bad at every level. We should not give the impression that we are seeking conflict and historical revenge from Germany as a counterweight to its attitude to the recent economic crisis. The issue of German debts was and is an arbitrary, autonomous and active issue between Greece and Germany, which we now have to put in the clearest way everywhere, but at the same time we are ready to claim all the dues with all the appropriate legal instruments. Ladies and gentlemen, seventy-four years after the end of World War II and the crimes of Nazism more than a hundred Greek villages and cities with them, Choriatis, Distomo, Kalavrita, Kommenos, Viannos, Thessaloniki with the many Israeli communities seek justice. The Greek state must stand up to the circumstances required by the current juncture. Without small-party bumpers, we should draw up a clear national strategy for claiming German debts, with the final account per hand making the promise that nothing is forgotten, nothing is given. I would also like to say to the partners, allies and friends of the Germans "machen gute freunde klare geschafte", which in Greek means "good accounts make good friends". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much Mr Arvanitidis. Mr. Kyriazides has the floor, and then I will call Prime Minister Tsipras to Stepa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, I am serving a witness county, a county, whose inhabitants were slaughtered three times, where housing was looted and burned and, of course, it also happened with treasures of church. Ten days ago in the battalion of the Lecade of Lower Nyrokotiou, in Fort Lissa, we paid tribute to those who, during World War II, at the end of Greece, gave their lives for the freedom of their homeland, Greece and Macedonia, from Crete to Evros. For the first time, unfortunately, in the years I've been there, today's Nazi partners submitted a wreath. Their ancestors are nazi. The Greeks were sacrificed there. I felt very bad that today's descendants of these people testified a wreath. At the price of whom and in the memory of whom? The martyr's known. Burned three times. The people were slaughtered half the first time, the other half the second and also the third time. Colleagues and colleagues, today's celebrity-type plenary session of the Greek Parliament is held with a three-year delay under the responsibility of the government-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority-majority. Three years after the end of the intergroup's work, and after being kept in the drawer the result drawn up today, the House is called upon to allay the repatriations of the government in the handling of the matter. In other words, it is actually called upon to call on the Prime Minister and to change the moral issue, in his view, of the mortgage and German allowances on a matter of law, reintroducing it to its real dimension. We all remember the exceptionally unfortunate and truly incomprehensible reports by the Prime Minister in Berlin on 23-3-2015 when he said before Chancellor in Germany that "The issue of borrowing and German corrections is not a matter for us, primarily for a material claim. It is a moral issue above all, and I believe that we need to work in order to address this moral issue." This ambiguous statement, Prime Minister, incomprehensible to me and obviously to everyone, which has amazed everyone, comes out of the standing position of our country, but also of this Parliament of the Greeks, as the latter expressed with the unanimous recommendation of this committee. I am concerned that this statement by the Greek Prime Minister was made public and at a higher level of political leaders of the governments involved, with what this implies under international law. So today, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to collect all this as a Parliament. And it will be heard immediately on the part of SYRIZA - it has already been heard - the adversarial that this was not the point of the Prime Minister's words. I catch up with you: If that's the case, I ask what the government has done in the period from 2015 to today? What steps did it take to resolve the matter? Nothing at all! The question arises: Why is Parliament's mandate today to act on the self-evident things that it has been failing to do for so many years? The answer, Mr SYRIZA, is simple: In the face of elections and in order to show that it acts patriotic, claiming and according to its announcements, the government is trying to take advantage of this national issue. In order to avoid public accountability for its inertia and mismatch of words and works, it brings it to the House at the forefront, while at the same time seeking legalisation, so that it can be re-folded after the unfortunate statements made by the Prime Minister. Don't think, gentlemen of the government, that these political games are not understood. You've all been taken care of and you can't hide through drunkenness and beans. The truth is one: three whole years you have done nothing, but your government, although it has created expectations, has ultimately undermined the subject and just before it has died politically, like other issues, in the next and no matter how much your deeper political will is and remains blurred. This was reflected in the work of the committee and in the way they were carried out, as is glaringly reflected in the positions recorded by the New Democracy on the findings. Although it was an opportunity to show the country's demands together, the government denounced the committee. In my speech, as early as March 2015, I had asked for the Prime Minister to come and come, but also other co-legislative ministers - I will submit the relevant text to the Minutes - Economic and Foreign Affairs, in order to inform the committee behind closed doors and collectively to prepare an action plan. But in vain. With multiple questions and in writing for four years, I expressed my agony in order to obtain a response from the relevant ministries. I address the relevant questions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, nothing was taken at all. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece and the inalienable rights of our country are the responsibility and responsibility of our political system as a whole. Finally, the time has come to raise the claims of our country in the most official way against Germany, unsolicited and active claims, which must be immediately met. It's time for accountability and compensation. The destroyed and looted by the German conquerors Greece has suffered for decades in order to recover financially and stand upright. The atrocities of the Nazi occupation and the inconsistency have led to this devastating economic position, the literally bleeding of our national wealth. Our people demand justice and we must all respect it. We must seek immediately beyond compensation and the money, which has illegally defied the Nazi regime with the mortgage. His heirs have to pay it back. I come to an issue on which I personally have a particular sensitivity, because it is often neglected and put to second fate. In addition to the financial requirements of our country, the claims for the return of the illegally guarded by the Germans and their allies of cultural goods are also active. I come from a region in Macedonia, which has not only suffered much from the barbarity of the conquerors, but has literally been looted. The archaeological and ecclesiastical treasures, unblemished historical, cultural and national value, both in the period 1913-1918 and in the period 1941-1944, were really overcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u203	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u204	I shall conclude, Mr President. These are stolen relics and objects, which have been illegally removed and transferred to the alien, many of which are still exposed to private and state collections today. The plundering of cultural goods in the wider region of Macedonia and Thrace began in 1913-1918 and was completed in 1941-1944. The historic Monastery of Mount Pangaios, Timios Prodromos in Serres, Panagia Kalamas and Archdiocese in Xanthi, as well as Metropolitan Codes, was occupied. I give you the relevant text of all these stolen persons, which, please, is confidential and given to the President of Parliament. The largest and most rated part of all these stolen treasures is infinite historical and cultural and national value. I would like to note that in 2014, on the occasion of the Greek Presidency, at a conference in the Acropolis Museum on 2 May 2014, the return of stolen cultural goods from the occupation forces, German, Italian and Bulgarian. I am sorry to say this, but I have been waiting for a stronger support from the government on this issue, which, unfortunately, has not been confirmed for more than four years by all of this. I have tabled questions on all matters in the Minutes and you have received them. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to come to an end, the lights will be closed, any communication use by the government with the benefits that it expects to bring to an end. The question is what will happen next day. I hope and hope that we do not disappoint once again the Greek people, who are expecting works and actions. Under the reservations I have written, I am voting in favour of this whole process, which I believe the Greek people are waiting to see it in practice rather than theoretically. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and three teachers - their attendants from the 10 High School of Thessaloniki (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call on the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want today's sitting, in today's debate, to provoke controversy and conflict with the Civic Opposition, with the totalitarianism. But I can't, starting and listening to the previous speaker, not just say a phrase. From 1974 to 2015, SYRIZA was not ruling the country. The issue we are debating today is not something that happened in the first half of the governance of SYRIZA, it is not the Baroufakis account, it is a major historical issue for Greece, for Europe, for the whole world. It goes a great deal on this issue especially to follow the same practice you are following on all other issues. Where we were owed, we're also asked for the ox.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u207	They took it from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u208	They won't take it from us, don't worry. It goes a lot, you, when Samaras went there and said, "No man without sin" - and I was in Berlin as the first Greek Prime Minister to raise the issue there, the compensation - to ask us today and the change for that and to say, "Why did you first say moral?" Because this is a serious point of order, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And of course, you will not even have read the title of Manolis Glezou, who is the professor of claiming corrections and mortgage loans, who put it as "And a brand to be".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u209	Yeah, but where's Gleezo now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u210	Mrs Vuldesis - Prime Minister, excuse me - do not say that again! You said that in your speech. You're forcing me to say that Manolis Glezos has a health problem and he's attending the meeting. Please, too! It's unacceptable, I didn't answer you at noon. I'm saying it now. Mercy! Excuse me, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u211	A letter to send you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u212	But, Mr President, I will not go on with this tone, because I understand, at least I understand, that today there is no point in me dealing with and dealing with the wings of the Greek Parliament. That should perhaps have been understood by all those who went up to this Step. What is of value today is to deal with history, because it is a historic meeting. It is a meeting, a tribute to the victims of Nazism and Fascism in Greece, Europe, the world. It is a tribute meeting for the victims of the Bistom, Vianno, the Kalavryta, Cesareans, but also for the victims of Auschwitz, Dachau, the hangars in Poland, Stremlinga, Sobibor, Belzek, where thousands of people died. It is a meeting, I would say, a tribute to the heroes of World War II who fought and died to defend their freedom and their homelands against the atrocities of fascists and nazis. I would say, however, that it is also a tribute to all those who fought in the shadows of the world, from Stalingrad to Normandy and from the heights of Zeelov to North Africa and the Pacific Ocean. A tribute to the fighters and the struggles of the Greek National Resistance, who did not bereft in front of the Nazi German war machine. A tribute to the fighters of EAM, ELAS, and other resistance organisations. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on the situation in the former Yugoslavia and on the situation in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and on the situation in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina. Why should we not forget that people resisted there too, in the animal's own belly, and perhaps in them - many and many - we should pay even greater respect. I believe that today more than ever, we owe all of these to remind them, remember them and honor them, not as heroes of the past, but perhaps as symbols of the future. Today more than ever. Why? Because the enemies of freedom regain a head in Europe. There is, unfortunately, also a wing in this Parliament, which is empty now, but they had the courage to go up to this Step and talk. We have not mentioned a single moment in the concept of 'nazis' and 'naziism' because they are the same. And it is a shame on Greek history that a large part of the Greek people, misleaded, considered the antisystemics, enables them to be in the National Delegation today. It is a shame and a reproach for the history of our people! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Today, then, also in Greece, but, unfortunately, throughout Europe, far-right, nationalism and racism are threatening to dominate, poison and divide again. They are threatening to turn Europe back into the darkness of hatred and jeopardise the great conquests of over seventy years, the united Europe itself, democracy itself, and that is something that we must not allow. Let this be a message, which will come out of this Chamber today, that all citizens should listen to it, in view of the European polls, to confront our collective debt, send a message of reconciliation and peace, not hatred and a message of victory of memory, against oblivion, a message of healing the deep wounds, which left war and horror in the collective consciousness of Greece and Europe. But in order for this message to thrive and to be able to thrive and the effort - which I want to believe all of us want to have results - to be honest and courageous on all sides, mutual recognition is required which, if you like, is a prerequisite for forgiveness. But this reciprocity cannot be synonymous with netting. The victims cannot be equated with the perpetrators. And I have to say that, because some people tried to do it. Some have dared to say in 2015 that, allegedly, Greece is using its claims from the war crimes of Nazi Germany, in order that the newly elected government will negotiate in 2015 in terms of better debt and position in united Europe and that this was the argument on those days both in the German and international press. But this hideous idea characterises those who have been arrested, not Greece, not the Greek Government, not the National Representation, not all those who have been fighting for these claims for years. Why all of us, collectively, are much more proud of the Greek people, we have a much higher sense of dignity and pride in doing so. We could never put the absolute evil of Nazism in any balance, not only because this would weaken our claim, but because this would be an insult to the victims of Nazism themselves. It would be an insult to history, it would be an insult to memory, it would be an insult to the Resistance, it would ultimately be an insult to our historic path, to form our collective consciousness, our own self, our own homeland. So here's the answer to the question put by some of them who have taken up this step in opposition, because today - indeed, in 2016 this committee ended - is coming to this debate. Because today the country is not in the committee's programmes, because today the country is not in this tough cloak of coercion, because today the country has no proof that it does not bring about the question of the corrections, the compensation, the interest rate on the loan in order to put them on balance with the debt issue! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because no slaughter, no atrocity, no crime, nor a drop of blood could come into the balance with no memorandum, no negotiation, no cash payment! That is why we have, of course, chosen to introduce the report into plenary today. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the poor people at the time were many and that our relations with Germany, because of its special weight and special role in the European Union and the Eurozone, and because of its special weight throughout the Memorandum period, during the eight-year period, were tense and especially when we took over. In the consciousness of the Greek people, many of what happened at this time, rightly or unfairly, were charged to the German intransigence, while there were just as many people in Germany who had the same view. In any case, I would say that the moral attitude of certain politicians in Germany who wished to present to their Greek people moral teachers for their ethics at the time, and who spoke at that time, did not very much help to create a good climate in Greek-German relations. On the contrary, they burdened the already negative climate and increased suspicion. But all this will be considered by the historian of the future, because I believe that we are now in a completely different phase and that is why today's debate is worthy. And that is why it is worth having a unanimous position as a National Representation. That is why it is worth discussing the next steps. So why has the attitude changed? Why has the scenery changed radically? It has changed the landscape radically, because we believe that we can have a substantial and natural relationship with the German Government today, outside the memoranda, that we can have a framework for cooperation and dialogue. I think that with this attitude we must begin - rather than closing today - a possible long process of claim, which must have a start, middle and end, which must take steps, because - I repeat - we have a positive acquis. We are now opening the debate on a subject, not just sensitive, but historically, emotionally and morally charged. In the inaugural debate on this issue in Parliament in March of '15' I said the phrase that we are not going to be doing justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u213	That's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u214	No, I'll tell you. It's no longer a matter. This does not mean that we will not claim our country's unreasonable claims and our citizens' unreasonable claims from the martial villages to the Federal Republic of Germany, above all because this claim is one - I repeat - historical and moral debts and because we believe that, in order to be able to build a better future, we need to close the open affairs of the past. This, I believe, has to understand and it must be done today by Germany. For my part, I would like to say that I understand Germany's attitude in this case, a attitude that has been historically defined by an unbearable guilt, followed by entire generations, which have not been the result of anything - it is true - of a guilt that has moved to the dislocation between verbal recognition and legal recognition and repulsion. But, to speak with psychoanalytical terms, the emergence of the repellent is the beginning of the end of the symptom. Today, then, we have a duty to give our people the opportunity to finally close this chapter. I say these more, as you can see, to those who I believe are watching us today. We are not only being watched by Greek citizens. We are also being followed by the German public opinion. Therefore, I am not going to go into the legal issues raised here, because the Greek administration, the Legal Council of State, the General Accounting and the Intergroup of Parliament have done a hard legal and technical task determining the Greek claims and recording of the legal framework in which we, as a state, have to move and act, so that this claim does not remain a letter. Our main objective cannot be at this stage, rather than agreeing with Germany at last to come to the dialogue table as equal partners, as friends and allies. You know that this was a time-consuming one - to be fair - but unfortunately, so far, incomplete pursuit of the Greek state, which, of course, has never resigned from the claims of both its own and its citizens. Today I think, however, that we have now taken the necessary steps and created the ground to pursue this dialogue more decisively. It is precisely in this context, in which we will move from now on. I'll explain what I mean. Before explaining what I mean, I must admit that this matter has been officially opened by a private communication since 1995 by the Government of Andreas Papandreou with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, if I am not mistaken, Charles Papoulias, the former President of the Republic. It was on a proper basis. However, there was no response and the second step was not taken. Some colleagues have mentioned this step for a second financial communication a few days before the 2015 elections. Consistent with each other, not play. The private communication is a financial communication, not a comment on German press reports. Racical communication means 'opening an issue'. We may also send a sms and say that we made a financial announcement, but the financial communication means that we are opening a topic officially and saying "we want one, two, three, four for him and that's why", not under the election pressure, to say that we made a financial announcement, to send a paper to which we say "there were publications, we took note of them, we put them in your mind". I hope that, if we want to have a start, an average and an end to this effort, first of all, we must today admit that the conclusion of the committee is covering us all and, on the basis of this, we will proceed with the internationalisation of the issue, with a private communication, which will put matters on the right basis, with an attempt to create a strong international and European level, but above all within Germany itself and, of course, with the steps that will follow in every respect. If there is a positive dialogue, it is the scenario in which we will all be happier. If not, we still have a plan for the next day. What I would therefore ask we to conclude today is the adoption of this conclusion. I would like to inform you that in this context immediately after Parliament's approval, and I hope - and I hope - the Greek Government intends to address a financial communication to the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It will be a private communication, which will repeat its unreserved claims, arising from the Nazi invasion and occupation, as well as from the war crimes of Nazi Germany, which, according to the committee's finding, concern: first, the war redress for the material disasters and the dismantling of the country's productive fabric. Secondly, compensation for the victims and relatives of war crimes victims in the martial villages. Third, the repayment of the loan. Fourthly, as regards the return of the stolen archaeological treasures and relics. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This private communication will include our demands in detail. It will not refer to publications. I would like to believe that, starting with this effort and in our sincere intention of starting an open and at the same time morally and legally required dialogue, there will be voices - already there are voices - and this may be a qualitative difference from 1995 to 1996 - and within the German society itself. There are already bodies of German society, of citizens, who respond and support the right of Greek demand. Members of the parties of the German Left, the Greens, Social Democrats, people of art and letters, members of social bodies, were the ones who recently taken the initiative to set up an organisation entitled "Respect for Greece". To support the need, the German state has been mobilised to practically recognise its moral and material debt to a country and a people who have suffered under the appalling regime of the Nazi occupation. It is precisely - I would say - that example of this organization, this move entitled 'Respect for Greece', which shows the way through which the two peoples can overcome the past and set an example for the future. It gives an internationalist message of solidarity at a time when Europe is in danger of being immersed again in the dark of the national isolations of nationalist self-sufficiency and chauvinism. The example of these pioneers - brave people, I would say - I hope the German Government will follow, as an act of recognition of the Nazi atrocity and the wounds that left the Nazi troops in our country. We will expect the German Government's answer with good will and with feelings of real friendship. But I would like to close by saying that whatever the answer is, this time we all have to say that we will not leave the matter on the bells. Whatever the answer is, this time we will come back to all four issues. We will come back, taking advantage of what European and international legal culture gives us and, if necessary, balance our own legal culture with what is happening in European legal culture. You understand, I imagine, all of you just what I mean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u215	Thank you very much. For six minutes, the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr. Dendias has spoken. There are ten other speakers. The vote will take place at 21.00 a.m. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, thank you. I will keep the time with full respect for the Members who want to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I do not think we can disagree on two basic things: the first is the size of the disaster caused by the Italian, Italian, fascist and Bulgarian occupation in Greece. Our country lost 7% to 11% of its population. Perhaps the majority of any other country is involved in the war, including the Soviet Union at the time. The country also lost a national income of thirty-three years. He lost five thousand square miles of forest, or 25% of its forest wealth. He lost 60% of the work animals, 50% of the ovine and caprine animals and 80% of the pigs. Lost all of the mining industry. The railways suffered enormous damage, from 100% to the lowest. Approximately 25% is presented on the line of Thessaloniki - Alexandroupolis. The whole other network suffered almost complete destruction. He lost fourteen thousand seven hundred twenty - one mile [14 km] of road. They were bombed, destroyed or burned three thousand seven hundred cities and settlements. Five thousand schools were destroyed. The size of the disaster is not questioned by anyone. The second, ladies and gentlemen, in which I think we are all in agreement, is that those who would disagree, as the late Minister of PASOK said, are 'We are not all entitled to speak on this matter'. Anyone who is the political successor of Nazism, proven and proclaimed, has no right to place himself in this debate. Nazism is the one that brought these disasters to the country. [[Applause from the wings of the New Democracy and SYRIZA]] And I'm sorry to say it, but I'm just going to read a small speech point from the President of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Michalliaku. What I shall read has been submitted to the public debate and is contained in the Minutes of the Golden Dawn trial as well. Referring to the Greek Jews of Thessaloniki said: "The others in Thessaloniki took the train" - it refers to the Jews of Thessaloniki, ladies and gentlemen - "and they went on a beautiful trip, in a beautiful landscape for winter holidays with tall chimneys". And laughs are recorded at the audience. This is a description of the fate of our Jewish fellow citizens in Thessaloniki. And this party calls for a reason in the National Representation and is complaining as an unjust person because he was not given the floor as to how he wanted it. In conclusion, I have to comment on what was said by the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras. First of all, of course, we all have to be united. In this Mr Mitsotakis was clearly placed. The Prime Minister, however, could not escape his usual momentum, in principle of inaccuracy. I'm going to say it stylishly, not to say 'true'. It has been accused - and I think it is right - of a three-year delay in this matter. The answer 'what other parties have done for years' is not an argument. I've said it many times before. First of all, they did. The two private announcements were mentioned, even if the Prime Minister did not agree with the content of the second, the Samara Government in 2015, signed by Mr. Venizelos, but in any case this was done. The question is: The government's trial, which he promised, but why has he not done so? Ladies and gentlemen, the excuse that the Prime Minister has shown that these issues should not be raised, because the impression would then be that Greece raises the issue in order to obtain a set-aside during the memorandums is reflected in his words. I read you his position in 2013, Chief of Responsibility at the time, saying: "As I criticise the government for its attitude to this issue, the President of SYRIZA, expressed his complete opposition to the issue". And he's referring to his own position on Wolfgang Shoeble, which says he put it. Later he says: "We ask the government - the then government of Samaras - to bring the matter to the House immediately". Nowhere does it tell us then that he was advising the government at the time, also during memorials, not to raise the issue, because it was simply not time-consuming. It is therefore clear that the government has delayed and missed. As unlucky, probably because of the ignorance of what the resignation - even verbally - means by a strong legal claim, it is the Prime Minister's position on Chancellor, on a moral issue. The issue, ladies and gentlemen, has a moral dimension, but it is not just moral. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to need a little time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u217	It's chiefly moral.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u218	It is a question of assets, absolutely valuers of Greek public and Greek citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] When we speak only of moral arguments and a matter, we are in fact indirectly resigning from the enormous claims made by the Greek people and the Greek public. I hope, of course, that this was not the intention of the Prime Minister in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs of the New Democracy and, above all, our chief rapporteur, Mr Costas Javaras, have clearly described the issue, and what should be done and what should be done. They described our powers to the Court of Justice in the Hague, they described our powers in respect of the Arbitration Court under Article 28 of the London Agreement. They also underlined the need for the country to seek international alliances to raise this issue with effect and not to make any desecrated move, which would end up in defeat, which would now challenge the sacrifices of the hundreds of thousands of victims of the Greek people and of the Greek society during World War II. So I would suggest that the Prime Minister of an outgoing government does not take any action if he does not have the full agreement of counter-population. We are fully ready to work together, to help, to support, to design together and to implement together in the draft of a national policy, to claim what the Greek people, the Greek nation and the history of this people are entitled to and enforce. However, there must be no deserving moves in the context of an election campaign based on other than national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u219	Thank you. Mr Andreas Rizzoulis has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr Koutsoubas will then speak so that there can be a rotation of speakers. Then will Mr. Dimitriadis, Mr. Delis, Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Panayotaros, Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Lappas. Maybe I'll say a few words too. Here, Mr. Rizzouli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. I shall speak very condensedly, as many speeches have precede, like the Prime Minister's one. I begin by saying this: Greece's compensation for the destruction and preservation of its wealth, but above all for the loss of its people during the Nazi occupation, is primarily a moral issue. But it is also a question of economics. Why are you underestimating the chief moral issue, but you are dismantling the economics that Alexis Tsipras said must be concerned about, from the Chief of Anti-Population, to all the Members who have mentioned it. Crimes against humanity, cleansing, loss of life, starving deaths due to the existence of a country's wealth, are crimes against humanity and have a huge moral dimension. Obviously, economic issues are also the result of these. But a German bulldozer didn't pass, and it knocked us down the fence and we're asking for a 1,000 euros compensation. There has been a lot of catastrophe - and you are all saying - and that is obviously a moral issue, not only for Greece, but for Europe, for the whole world and where such catastrophes have been made either in the Pontto or in the Armenians, or in the Nazi occupation in all the countries of Europe and Greece. The fact that you're talking about it alone, I can't understand it. What bothers us is that we have a double good time for the country. Firstly, a good time for the country is that we have a left-wing government that set up this committee. This committee has been enthusiastic about it and with the help of the President of the Republic all this time and has come to a conclusion. That's never happened before. Of course, we have the other juncture that the Prime Minister said earlier. The country's position is now better, not just at economic level, but at the moment it is a guarantee of peace and democracy in the Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean. And it doesn't like that these two circumstances happen with a left-wing government. It is a terrible condensation of historical political time between 2014 and 2019. Anything you can sting from the past, that we've done something good, you're stinging it. All the rest, all the problems of the country, failures, mismanagement, everything, have started in 2014. Other one didn't remember who Lambrakis was, anyone else didn't remember what happened in 1912-1913! And all the problems of the country started starting in 2014! My question is not a rhetoric. Have you counted that? He's going through the world? Are we making fun of him? Do they swallow that nothing has happened before 2014 and everything happened in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018? I don't know. I want to move on quickly. As far as the conclusion is concerned, we have heard some things and I shall end with them. I wanted to say a lot. On the occasion of the finding and the way we bring it for our political rescue, it creates a division and a division for political salvation. Of course, we also took some lessons about what patriotism is and how we see it. So as the term patriotism is re-tested in our days and confused with the concepts of nationalism and hatred either by ignorance or by misinformation, awakening discourses and ideas from which our country, which was divided and the world as a whole, it is worth repeating what Alexis Tsipras said about what patriotism, what patriotism is about us, as he said, on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement and the hypocritical, but also dangerous position taken by the Anti-Policy. This is also a division and a division for political survival. Alexis Tsipras said a lot about what patriotism is about us. I had noted here to read them, but it doesn't matter. I think you've all heard them and remembered them. I will simply add something to this latter, on the occasion of the drafting of the conclusion, today's vote and all the procedures which open up for the claim from now on. What he said about patriotism can also be complemented by the proposal, on the occasion of today's debate. So patriotism for us is to claim the restoration of injustices and violence, which your people have known, with deep responsibility for those who defended it with their lives, have experienced persecution in their struggle for democracy, for peace and freedom, for the tens of thousands of men, women and children victims of hardships, hunger, from the bleeding of the country's resources, mass executions of vengeance, as took place in the period of Nazi occupation. All this, I think, is condensed in the conclusion that this House will be voting on and will first open the way for a serious and substantiated claim, on the part of our country of compensation at economic level, because morality, which is the primary one, of course, has been won by the people against Nazism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u221	Thank you. Mr Andreas Koutsoubas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think there is any doubt in this Chamber, at least on the part of the New Democracy, that this issue cannot be a matter of political confrontation, of opposition tactics on the part of the New Democracy, but I also consider it to be a whole issue of opposition. I say this because this is an issue which touches the entire Greek people, colleagues, whose villages and cities have suffered the atrocities of Nazism and the disasters, but also me from a village next to Distomo, Kiraki and Darylia that were burnt by the Germans. The theme of the Diastomos has widely known pan-European and global theme of the atrocities of Nazism. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] It has a greater emotional value for me to speak today on the part of my compatriots. I will say for the first time, although it has never been said by any of those who have dealt with the matter, that I was one of those who had signed the suit and made the decision, which you all invoked, of the Multimember Court of Livade. I therefore consider it an honour to speak on behalf of Boeotia, the prefecture of prefecture and, of course - why we must honour the people who have put us in this objective - for the relentless, then prefect, Giannis Stamoulis. I now come to the essence of the problem. I do not want to be negative in the face of the whole question. I have one thought, however. I agree with what Manolis Glezos has written in his book, as the Prime Minister himself said, that the constant reference and update of the issue gives us the good thing, namely that he reminds us all of the world, but mostly of the younger generation, of our younger children, of the atrocities of Naziism, of war in general and of the disasters it brings, and that we must all work to resolve all differences peacefully, through the international rules that peoples themselves, the states themselves, have voted on. Another good thing is that, over time, we also have to recognise this, as our rapporteur has acknowledged, but the Prime Minister, on the German side, also has a turn to public opinion, but also to other levels, to the German people and to the German, if you like, legal order to deal with this issue. But there's something that troubles me. I will not dwell on what the Opposition said, so that you do not think I am making a negative criticism. I shall refer to what the Secretary-General of the JRC said. This issue, if you like, was for you by election in 2014. And it was good to bring it back as an element for which you will fight, while we others did not want it. And what did the Secretary-General of the JRC tell you? That a report from 2016 will now be put to the vote and that no one has dealt with it at that time. I reply to the Prime Minister at the same time. Mr. Dendias said that the Prime Minister should not answer the question 'we have done nothing for four years, you have done nothing since 1974'. I should like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that no Greek government has given up its claim against Germany until 1995, and obviously has escaped from it - I do not want to say that the Prime Minister completely hides it - that following the Treaty of Bonn and London, our claims have become non-trially sought, inactive, were a defective sect, because Germany did not have a state status and the Peace Pact, which was signed in 1990 by the 4+2 Pact, and after 1995 we could perhaps claim any claims. This has escaped him and the Prime Minister has referred, in my opinion, to the fact that since 1974 no one has done anything. So let us come to what you have done. You give me, if you will, the reason to say what you were doing, because I remember in the previous committee, in which I participated, we had come up with some serious interventions and actions which you did not follow. And why am I saying that? Not to criticize why you didn't do it, but because I think this is a trick on your part today. It is a new political account, that is to say, of the decision taken by the House today to have it as a post-election record when you have lost the election so that you can say what the other government has not done. Because if you wanted, you could do something these four years and not say that there was the memorandum and everything you said. Because in 2012, the then government of New Democracy and PASOK set up a Compensation Committee, which took action and reached conclusions, what you are coming to repeat today. I would just like to say what today's report is. It is a simple - if you want to give a legal designation - a report of things, but also an accreditation act and it is not another legal text. But of course - I will close with this - no Greek citizen - much more in this Chamber - doubt that we all agree with the text, which is coming as a resolution, brought by the President of Parliament, with which we must say to any government that seeks diplomatic or legal claims from the Greek state and from the Greeks. What we have to say is that the committee, which today submits this finding, did not take advantage of it as it was due and lost time. From now on, without communication, we must deal with this issue, bearing in mind the legal problems that exist and without giving the people hopes that cannot be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, too. We are going with Mr. Dimitriadis, MP of SYRIZA. Mr. Dimitriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the return of the remedial debts of the German state is a legal and moral necessity and can be the best basis for a heartfelt and perhaps incomprehensible relationship between the Greek and German people. The "Black Occupational Book" by the National Council for the Claiming of German debts to our country clearly states that the friendship based on justice and national consistency is a common matter for us, for which we deserve to fight. Invaluable to this national effort is the contribution of the National Council for German corrections, the Network of Tester Cities and Villages 1941-1945, the Pan-Hellenic Association of Lawyers on Compensation, Victims Associations, German Lawyers and A.K. militants. Hamburg's bistom. In general, all efforts must be directed towards a creative relationship between the two peoples, based on the solid basis of the historical recognition of crimes, but also on the other hand, to avoid the moralization of politics, thereby extending the requirements to all kinds of historical injuries. The issue of German debts has been the subject of multilateral and bilateral agreements with Greece. The state claims, of which the Greek State is a body, include, first, the claims for the corrections arising from the war and the Occupation and second, the so-called mortgage. In particular, the claims for the corrections relate to material damage, mainly damage to infrastructure, cultural goods, gold and silver coins, the rapture of monetary gold and others. More specifically, our demands are four: War compensation for material disasters and leaks. Secondly, war redress of victims and their relatives. Third, repayment of the loan. Fourthly, return the stolen archaeological treasures and ecclesiastical relics. On the basis of the archive material, the Committee of the General Accounting Office of the State concludes that our country's overall claim towards Germany amounts to EUR 269.547,000 on December 31, 2014. Note that in this definition it does not include claims for compensation from loss of life, disability, etc. At the same time as we have the military issues of war, we have the retaliations against the civilian population and the innocent. The Greek citizens were victims of war and occupation. They are remembered in detailed nominal situations, kept in the archives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They were executed by the occupation authorities in all regions of Greece, as well as in various camps. They were closed in concentration camps in Greece, Germany, Poland and elsewhere. Coming from all the regions of Greece, they were hostages of the occupation authorities, were arrested, kidnapped and forced into forced labour in the Nazi concentration camps. Whole cities and villages were victims of Nazism and fascism in many parts of the country. It is noted that, pursuant to the provision in Article 18(5) of Law 2503/97, a number of presidential decrees have been issued so far, which recognize over a hundred cities and villages as witnessing, as a result of the disasters suffered by residents and their property during the inhabited period. Greece has the first place among the states that have been bewildered by war, but also by the Occupation. The proportion of victims of the total population of seven million thirty-five thousand in 1939 amounts to 19.70%. This figure corresponds to five hundred and fifty - eight thousand deceased and eight hundred eighty thousand disabled, a total of one million four hundred and thirty - eight thousand victims. However, according to the prevailing concept of Public International Law, the State is the sole body of claims for damages, which occur to the individual individuals - citizens for damages, who have suffered wrongdoing, contrary to public international law. In the light of the foregoing, the Hellenic Republic, in the capacity of the representative of its nationals, reserves the right to claim full satisfaction with the claims of its nationals. The claim of private claims may also form part of an overall claim on the Greek side of the above-mentioned state and private claims before the abovementioned courts. Ladies and gentlemen, the moral issue raised by the question of corrections is related to the perception of our times of our perception of the role of memory in the formation of modern state and international law. Even more so, it concerns the common principles on which it can be formed, not least a concept of humanity, namely a global regulatory ideal, in which the common human course, the movement of history, is represented. I come from the Virgin Mary of the many martyrial communities, towers, Mesovonos, Ermakia, Lehovos, Klissouras, as well as the seated Livers, Pontokomis, with the two hundred fifty burned houses, Vlastas. I am a grandson of Dimitris Dimitriadis, who was executed, along with his two-two companions, in Cesarean, by the Nazi forces of occupation, as a retaliation for an armed conflict in the Molaus of Laconia, but also of Greek Demetriad, his wife, who was murdered with her neighbors, farmers, in the rural area of the new Ptolemaid settlement, unarmed by armed Nazis, because they were officials of the National Resistance. I therefore have to share both the logic and the emotional experiential dimension of the subject. For all these heinous crimes against innocent and defenseless victims there was no punishment and no act of justice. It's a given fact that killers and criminal physicists are not in life, so justice is not going to be done. Therefore, this vigilance against humanity and my own region remains as such in history and is never recorded. The conclusion is that the problems of the past themselves, especially the injuries, are difficult to resolve. However, it is possible to pursue a common future, with justice and freedom, and therefore agree on a way to resolve it. So while I am a descendant of the victims, I am not the same victim, precisely because their own struggle and sacrifice did not go lost, because I am, all of us are heirs and bodies of their own historical affiliation, which is the struggle for freedom and justice, for a life of dignity and prosperity. We are far from reasonable victimization, where the victim is found in the wound and cannot understand and work out the prospect of a virtuous and decent life. I consider it necessary to recognise and accept the crimes of the Nazi regime by modern Germany. As practical recognition we mean accepting the corrections, not only from the point of view of international law, namely legal justice, but as a moral and political point of view. The claims of the Greek State remain outstanding and active, since this has never been the case and in any way been renounced. The issue of debts to Greece remains open as an undetermined debt, which is constantly seeking its moral historical justice. And I say this, although we must all be aware of the efforts that the German Federal State officially made to apologise to the victims of the Nazis. I think that there is one step on their behalf here and on their behalf, a step which no longer refers to forgiveness or not on the part of the victims, to recognition by the offspring of the victims. It is a step above that is more a promise of a common future, a promise - commitment, based on memory. It is what our ancestors inherited us, an active beneficial force in our collective memory, the constant struggle for freedom and democracy. This is at the heart of the European perspective, so that it is the continent of solidarity, peace, the social state and freedom, which have been desperately trying to expose fascists and Nazis from the European perspective, but they have not succeeded. We're here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u225	Thank you. We proceed with the next speaker, who is Mr Delis, a Member of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u226	"Whoever doesn't want to ferment, ten days sifting," says the people. That is exactly what all the Greek governments have been doing for decades on the issue of German debts during the occupation period. And like this, for seventy-four years the Greek governments have been looking for the right time to submit the request to Germany and have not yet found it. We are reminded here that, with the end of the war and the collapse of Nazism in 1945, the "FODER HELLA", the newspaper of EAM, presented a great enquiry by the unforgettable communist journalist Kostas Vidalis on the disasters, plundering, plundering and all those enormous sacrifices suffered by our people in the years of the Occupation. This research is the first foundation for the people's demand for the conquerors to make good and finally to compensate the Greek people for the suffering they caused and are not very small. Greece had most victims during World War II, in proportion to its population and its sacrifices for anti-fascist victory were defeated immediately after the Soviet Union sacrifices. And yet, these laws of our people, which were founded on the anti-fascist struggle, led by the JRC and the unheard of crimes of the thousand fascists and their local partners, at the expense of civilians, women, old people, children and even infants, are still waiting. Because, after the end of World War II, Germany has never really paid any compensation to our country, nor to the forced mortgage loan, to the detriment of our people, nor to the return of the looted archaeological treasures, nor to the Holocausts, which caused Distomos, Kalavrita, Chortiatis and so many others. And if the Paris International Peace Conference since 1946 has decided to do so and if it does not exist since 1990 and if Germany is reunited, no legal pretext for fulfilling these obligations will be found. In this context, however, a very bitter truth must be said: the Greek bourgeoisie never really cared about claiming German allowances, not only because those who paid for the heavy blood tax and the destruction of the fascist occupation were the working class and the poor populace - when important parts of the Greek bourgeoisie were co-operated with the conqueror and enriched - not only for that, but mainly because it does not want to be tempted to the least, its international alliances within NATO and the European Union. This explains why, over time, all Greek urban governments, like the present one, have not only refused to claim from Germany these fair demands, but, with their handling, they also undermine their satisfaction, thus strengthening the provocative attitude of the German urban governments. The government service, for example, of SYRIZA is revealing. In all these years SYRIZA has said his words to cut them thick and lifted a great helmet on the issue of German allowances, but in practice, he blurred and did nothing essential to claim them. And that, of course, is not because he lacked a resolution from the House. Such a resolution, for example, exists for the recognition of the Palestinian State, but for the SYRIZA government its alliance with the State - a murderer of Israel is more worthwhile. So not because he lacked a parliament resolution, like what SYRIZA is proposing today to cover up his consciousness of inertia on the matter, but why neither does SYRIZA want to disturb with such claims their friends and allies in the European Union and NATO, especially when it comes to the German Government. It is enough to remember, during Mrs Merkel's recent visit to our country, how Mr Tsipras, the issue of German allowances, went through it with half a word in order not to cool the alliances of the Greek ruling class with the German capital. And suddenly, all of a sudden, just before the elections completely, but completely, randomly, SYRIZA remembers the issue of German debts for which it is now inactive four years. You know, however, that there are some issues that have such a historical, political and moral weight. This is precisely the question of German compensation, for which no one is entitled to pretend and no more to play pre-election games with them, for that is exactly what SYRIZA is doing with German debts. In the summer of 2016, the Intergroup Committee completed its work on this issue and this year, three years later, its report comes to plenary. And what does the JRC say, please, that report, with which the JRC certainly did not agree? On the one hand, it does not include any specific requirement to the Greek Government to claim German allowances and on the other, it launders all the previous governments, while at the same time guaranteeing their enormous responsibilities for this matter. As for this, in the case of the claim, namely, in the case of German debts and not in the case of words, it is referred back to the Greek bells, through detailed wordings on general and individual directions and after a national dialogue has taken place. Ask me May to eat a clover! What can one expect from a government, such as the SYRIZA, which has come to the point that it never responds to the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions and to this committee's question as to whether or not the Greek Government claims German compensation. We are talking about the report submitted by the Panhellenic Association of Fighters and Abbots of the National Resistance and the Democratic Army of Greece, with the support of the JRC MEPs, which raised the issue of German debts to the Greek people and which, of course, also refers to the unacceptable attitude of the SYRIZA Government, entered the file without debate. That's how SYRIZA builds its progressive fronts in the European Union with the Social Democrats and the others who don't even want to hear about German compensation. As for us, for the JRC - and I am closing here, Mr President - as the soul of our people then stood in his heroic fight against fascism with ELAS and EASM - is now constantly demanding that the Greek governments finally claim the war redress of Germany for the damage it caused, for the forced mortgage, for the stolen archaeological treasures and for its due compensation to the relatives of thousands of victims of Nazi crimes throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, too. We proceed with Mr. Dimitris Kammenos, Independent MEP.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, seventy-four years is too much. Berlin has said that 'the matter has been resolved politically and legally'. Anything that can be understood and what any one of us can read. A simple question, which all the relatives of the murdered victims, those who were slaughtered by the Nazis and the boot during the occupation, is as follows. If the Germans were in Greece's position, what would the Protestants, the good people, those unmistakable morals who plan and put it all in a box and let nothing escape? What would the Germans do in our place? You know what they'd do? They would have cost not only each brand and subdivision of the brand in real physical infrastructure, they would have cost life, the blood, they would have estimated GDP losses, they would have calculated how much Greece earned from the money it took, the nickel, the bauxite, the aluminum, the archaeological, the grains, which they stole from Greece, put them into its own GDP, made helmets and weapons, dissolved all of Europe, increased its GDP from us and we lost our GDP. And now why do we have to apologize? Not from here, not from me. There are no mirrors to apologize to anyone else. That's what Germany would do. What do we do now? Are we currently analyzing politically, legally and morally, whether we are right? We're all in favour of the conclusion. I had disagreed with the committee and those of you who were, you know that. I have a piece of mine around sixty-eight with seventy pages. I do not know how much I have written with a specific cost for how it should be calculated - together with the help of economists and other friends - the loss of GDP, the trade balance, the claating, all the Germans who had made when buying products from Greece and sent us worthless products here, like the Italians. Another question is this. What are we going to do with the Italians? Are we gonna ask for money? The Italians didn't get us any money? Do we pay or not a month to the Italians forced mortgage loan? Does the Bank of Greece say so? Through 1.5 billion drachmas a month, 15 billion or what was raised later, did we give Italy money? We were on our way. Why isn't anyone talking about Italy? For Albania a few, infinitely relative to others. The Italians? A large part of the compensation belongs to the Italians. Claims are legally active and are claimable. We are lucky Mr. Stakoras did the cost in the General Accounting Office of the State at that time, and we have the numbers, which we can all invoke now. The General Accounting Office of the State and the Legal Council of State can take us out four hundred million, billion drachmas, which are growing up today may be 15, 16, 17 million gold pounds at the time, which, by means of restructuring operations for seventy-four years, will probably be 370 billion euros. Anyone who wants to do things and not be Deutsche Bank. If we had the President of Deutsche Bank here, he would do us good, he would have made a lot of billions out of us. We don't make discounts and we don't have to make discounts. I see the dear Mr. Paradise here. On 10 March 2015 you said: "I have the honour, I have the opinion that the decision of the Supreme Court that there is a court order and therefore immunity of the defendant German State does not make up for the execution of the 2000 Aerospace Decision, because it is not in the same case. The decision of the Ice Arena remains enforceable and I personally am ready to give the permission for its execution." We were all there and we applauded you. I was underneath and warmly applauded. I said, "Not possible, Bravo, the first Minister of Justice, who in this government would sign for the Distomo, for the implementation of the decision." Mr. Paradise, it's not personal. Tell us what intervened, who intervened, the Prime Minister, Merkel? Who intervened? Who prevented you from signing the decision to execute the Distomo, so as not to have Mr. Tsipras here today apologise to me that 'I will now step on the Nazis'. The Nazis and fascists, who spilled blood in the Greek villages and the Jews' blood in the holocaust in Thessaloniki - and not only - could have stepped on their neck in 2015. We'd have run them, had them drink blood, if we were to execute the decision. Why didn't we execute her? This is a heavy political question which is burdened with the political system and all of us who did not pressure you when we asked questions why you did not sign. Who prevented the signature from executing the Dictator’s decision? The Germans say they owe them. A historian says 700, 800, 190. We haven't paid anything. I do not leave any such practical questions because they do not matter. It is important, however, that we should apologise here at least, just like myself because I was in the government at the time of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks to the Distomites we did not honor the dead and the blood that was spilled. My colleague, Mr. Thebeus, was here a while ago. Mr. Thevaeus, a rushphetti you had to do in your village, to convince your party and Mr. Paradise, to pay the blood of Diastomos. You didn't do the rushphetti, and you came here to weep, saying that today you were doing something for your neighbors? You didn't do anything, nothing at all. Five hundred and fifty thousand dead Greeks, one thousand seven hundred villages, ninety-eight Holocausts, slaughtering Jews on trains, intercepts of Jewish property, holocaust of Jews through Greece, properties, archaeological monuments. Has the Ministry of Culture made any interventions these days in auction on e-bay, selling us files stolen from the Germans in the backgrounds in Munich and Berlin? How's the Ministry of Culture? They're stolen and sold. Fifty-six thousand executions. How many kids? I'm ashamed to read the numbers. In Distomo - where we had the numbers - there were forty-five children, twenty-four infants, one hundred ten four women, one hundred four men. Let's ask for an apology. Let's say okay, we have the numbers, we'll all support the decision. Ask for an apology! Duru said nothing about the dead in 2015. Ask for an apology to the Historians for not executing the decision. And I insist that tonight we be told why Tsipras intervened or Merkel, to you, Mr. Paradise, or you tell us by the courage of the opinion who prevented you from signing the Dictator's decision. To solve this tonight, to have a redemption for all politics and to go further. Why can't it be in the world and the people that the question remains? What happened, son? After it happened once to Distomo, do all these politicians talk about the rest again and for free here tonight? So, is there anyone calling again and we have a "cod" and we can't "see"? And take it from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and see when it's going to be morally solved? Radiation Communication, The Hague, the whole House will support the compensation that the Greeks must receive for what they have lost in material infrastructure, in blood and in human life. I would ask you very much, however, to answer the people's questions because it is not the whole political system. And in order to believe us about what we will do from now on and on to the Prime Minister, which will support these steps he has said, one by one - but he must solve them and be credible for the previous ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I would like the floor on personal grounds because it has been referred to me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u231	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u232	Three times I had referred to the issue in 2015 and three times I said that I was ready to sign a execution decision, once the institutional conditions had met and the necessary political negotiation took place. That was the position of government now and the effectiveness and fulfilment of these conditions is the government rightly judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u233	Thank you. Mr Balaurras, SYRIZA MP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. It is indeed a historic event that is happening at this time to claim German debts to Greece, for in addition to the confiscation of war operations and the vengeance of public and private property, there are also mass and vengeance murders and the archaeological treasures and works and, furthermore, there is the landlord loan. There's a question. Because the governments have so far not dared to claim German debts. I have to say, for the record, that George Papandreou had sent his son back at the time, who had resigned from the Deputy Minister for Coordination, in Germany and then - and that is something that will be useful in negotiating the government - the German Government, and indeed it was divided by Germany, had accepted her debt and had proposed to Andreas Papandreou, instead of giving compensation, to do works in Greece, road construction, industry, etc. It is a documentary that I have found in the Bank of Greece by a report by Andreas Papandreou who was then a member of the Bank of Greece. I had the honour - the great honour I would say and it is recorded in my political history - to be a founding member of the National Council for German debts, along with Glezo, Babi Rupa, with Stelios Zamano, Andreus, Papayannakis, Kakouris, Koufakou, Magakis, Mahari, Stumoulis and many others. I'll tell you a story indicative and exemplary. At that time I represented the National Council in the negotiations in Geneva and at times in Berlin, where I was invited by companions - the Prime Minister said so - anti-Fascists and anti-German anti-Fascists, who made a great protest in Berlin in the late 1990s. So why were we invited to Geneva? Why the American Jews have constantly appealed to the US courts to seek compensation from companies like KRUPS, such as ‘SIEMENS’, such as ‘VOLKSWAGEN’, ‘BMW’, etc., who used slave workers. So they made appeals. They won the appeals and the US government came and called on the German Government and told them that these companies would have a problem with their products in the United States, so something has to be done. So then the German government took the initiative and created an institution called the "Responsibility - Future" with about 5.5 billion of them, half of which put the German state and half the companies using slaves. So, where I was in Geneva, they were representatives of both States and bodies, such as the National Council, where I was a non-cooperative. For what? Because we had not sent hostages to Germany in the classic sense. Because, as you know, in 1943, when Hitler decided to recruit workers from occupied Europe, EAM had made a great protest, occupied the city hall and the Ministry of Labour and burned the situation. Hitler, therefore, was alarmed not to expand to other states in the occupied Europe and frozen the hostages for Greece. There, then, was this. We didn't have enough people to get indemnity. They were counted at about ten fingers. They were very few hostages. We had, however, hostages who went to the camps in Greece, arrested them to do fortifications, to make way, to set bridges from the German army. And they were hostages. The National Council in a famous book - I think the comrades will still have it or reprint it, is very teaching and important - the "Black Book of Occupation" which is a document, recorded about a hundred and seven camps where they had used these slaves I am telling you. So let's go, and Greece had nothing to say. What's going on? At some point one of the International Labour Organisation, where he was the mediator for these cases for the whole of Europe, comes in and says: 'Mr Balaura, you want a representative of the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs and a representative of this institution created by the German Government'. I'm going there and they tell me we need to find a solution. They needed to find a solution and they showed me - look out, I say current - the German Government's papers addressing the Greek governments and the Greek Parliament, asking for the troops to be certified in order to compensate people. Because the Germans had a problem not to compensate the occupied Greece, which paid so much blood tax and education and disasters. They would therefore have a political problem. So, in agreement with Glezo, I reacted to giving us scholarships and finally five thousand people - good number, but not entirely satisfactory - received compensation. So, what does that teach us? I don't want to charge any government before. I said before about Andreas Papandreou. I would like to say, however, that the previous governments were persecuting them with the radar syndrome, and we should expel the subjugation syndrome - because they were afraid to send answers to the German Government about what camps we had in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, too. Mr Lappas, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read something from an excellent book called the 'Daily Order' by Eric Vuiyar. We are on February 20, 1933: "The narrative of a normal day in this heavy winter month in Berlin, in the comfortable living rooms of Ryhstag, the secret meeting of twenty-four barons of the German industry with high-ranking officials of the Nazi regime. The aim is to "pass through the fund" to fund the rise and stabilisation in the power of the national socialist party and its atrocious leader. We are in the industry and financial and around the table together with the "SIEMENS", "AGFA", "TELFUNKEN", "OPEL", "KRUPS" and the Albert Fegler, Günder Quad, Friedrich Flick, Ernst Jegelman, Fritz Springroom, August Rosterk, Ernst Brady, Karl Bürenner, Gunder Hoebbel, Gürk von Snitzler, Ugo Steins Jürjour, Edward Schulte, Ludvig von Vinderfeld, Volf - Dietrich von Witsleben, Volfgan Royter, August Dín, Erikler, Han von Levenstein, Ludwich Gruter, Schmidt, Augst, Aungst Fein and Dr. It is the big date of the 24 barons of the German industry and economy with the support and reinforcement of the third Reich Nazis. This is how the books of Eric Byyar "Daily Order" begin. She's Germany's economic elite and she was there to unfold the horror bucket for the world and the reproach for their country. They finance and prepare the world slaughterhouse, these "serious" and "successful" German entrepreneurs and industrialists. Alas, on this winter night of 20 February 1933 in Berlin, Germany's economic elite decided to adopt what was publicly preached by Hitler, such as "Is it a great fortune for leaders who don't think" or "Why not be as hard as nature?" or "Consciousness is a invention of the Jews". Blinds and deaf ones, Hitler and German economic rulers, filled with pilgrimism and arrogance for their power, hatred and contempt for the "others" and "differents" could not hear the cries of Heinrich Haine, their great intellectual fellow believer, who said: "Where the books were burning, in the end they also burned people." And he was completely vindicated after Nazism burned many human souls. But they did not hear the exhortations of Yuvenali, which, from the depths of their history, warned them: "A society of sheep will inevitably make a wolf government at some point". On the contrary, they adopted and insisted on Hitler's rhetoric: "If you want the favor of the masses," said their atrocious leader - "you must say the stupidest and fattest lies." And the lies built the story of the aria race, so the horror caravan started. And humanity's homework will be heard in the centuries and at the end of the world, to remind them that World War II began in World War II and turned the world into a slaughterhouse, lying on the butcher's bench for the peoples of Europe and not just. The terrible war in the history of mankind is a reality. I think that the introduction from the Intergroup report is amazing and I mention just one paragraph: 'The consequences of the Second World War for Greece and its citizens have been appalling and irreparable, as the country has suffered an unnecessarily and anticipated attack'. The "demanded" and "premeditated" are very serious choices as surnames, because our legal support for compensation is also being built on them. It was an unprotected and premeditated attack, but also a barbaric occupation by the forces of Nazi Germany, the fascist Italy and the Charic Bulgaria. This threefold occupation led the Greek people to total impoverishment after dismantling the country's economy. This finding is based without hindrance on the existing civil service material and is documented by a multitude of unshakable testimonies and a multitude of historical sources. I am looking at and overcoming all the figures and figures for the reduction of the population, about how much we cost all the compensation, and I shall mention a paragraph before I end up with what I want to say, and that is why I went up to the Stepma. World War II mediator, the allies declared their commitment to the exemplary punishment of war criminals and to the payment of due redress to countries such as Greece, who participated in the common struggle with great losses of inspiring and lifeless material. After the end of the war, allies' leaders were not implied anthems about Greece's contribution and the unparalleled National Resistance to the defeat of the Axis Forces. However, when it was time for decisions on the amount of remedial debts that Greece would pay, the successor of defeated III Reich, all these majestics were forgotten and had absolutely no real objection. The unscrupulous sacrifices of the Greek people, the mass looting suffered by the Greek state and the systematic extermination, entered second degree. Even the corrections originally agreed for Greece to receive from the coalition committee meeting in Paris in 1946, except that they were disproportionately small in relation to the size of the disasters it suffered, were further reduced by the consent of France, Great Britain and the United States. Everything has been said about the legal and historical and ethical dimension of the issue and I do not want to repeat it. But I would like to close this little suggestion - and after I close today's debate - as an anthem in favour of peace. I think that we should also educate ourselves and our children a culture of peace. That is why I choose a number of typical words of great intellectuals, which, unfortunately, my friend and colleague Mr Javarras considers to be commonplace. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. So on the path of times, the attitude of people and societies towards the question of peace is determined by the sovereign social and political forces and by the conceived concepts of nation and sovereignty. Aristotle considered peace to be ensured by reducing the distance between the rich and the poor, by creating a broad middle class. Centuries later with the universal domination of the Roman Empire and the enforcement of the IMPERIUM ROMANUM as an exercise of defence and foreign policy - as we would say today - was internationally imposed as a doctrine of sovereignty the 'Si vis pacem, para bellum, that is, 'If you want peace, prepare for the war'. In our century, however, a steep response to this doctrine was given. Anatol Franz brontophoned: “Those who invoke peace to make war, no doubt think in spite of the peace of cemeteries.” And what Anatol Franz said condemned the destruction and destruction of two world wars with the millions dead, the destruction of the social structures, the acquisition and ageing of the world's societies, as Herodotus had rightly observed: "In the time of peace, children bury their parents, at the time of war, parents bury their children." Ugo said once: 'Peace is the war of ideas and war, war of people'. Why is man not taught by any previous war ruin and extinction? Maybe Bernard Shaw is right when he observes "Every animal taught the man: The eagle of stealing, the crab of equipment, the squirrel of tear gas, the squirrel of prophylaxis, the snake of spying, and only the pigeon never taught him anything." Today, in researching human history, we can safely say that alongside human science, man is unfortunately cultivating and developing war as a science of destruction. War on the one hand as an expression of extremism, predicament, sovereignty, violence. Peace on the other hand as a wish, as a rule. Unfortunately, in the history of humanity, man and war machines were not even at all able to do so, as Montesquier defined. Human law is, of course, based on the principle that the various nations must do as good as possible in the event of war as possible, and it seems to have done exactly the opposite, which is why human law has never been permanently and permanently shaped. To close, let me mention something about the horror of war. When we want to respond to Oppenheimer - who did not strongly oppose the discovery of the atomic bomb - see what an intellectual was saying, taking a picture a few days after the bomb in Hiroshima. She said to the little girl: "Grandmother brought Mom into a bag." Never, then, remove these and, above all, phrases such as the flood in a speech by Hitler: "The German nation was not created for the demands of justice. On the contrary, justice exists to serve the nation." This is also addressed to this side of Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u237	Thank you. The President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to pay tribute, and indeed our thanks at historical level, to all the gentlemen and ladies who have either left us for these years or who have gone away from us - thankfully - have actively demanded, informed, appeared, opposed through the National Commission for the claim of compensation through the committees of the victims and their offspring, through the various initiatives developed in the hundreds of martyrial villages, in the hundreds of martyrial places and in hundreds of others who have levelled themselves and have been criminal activities. And I want from the heart and on behalf of the whole House to honor them again. There's no question of thanksgiving. As a duty, as an ethos they have filed this print all these years together and with present and present MPs. I mean that with us is Manolis Glezos, who had these decades an important, primary role in this claim. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] "Today morning we fall for our homeland with laughter on the lips for freedom" Litina Manolis. One of them, the brother of Manolis Glezou is on the front of the "Black Bible of Occupation" which has been released for 20 years in Greek and German. Right now Manolis, who we were in contact all day - so I made this speech earlier on what he said - sees his brother's original letter. For those of us who were lucky to go to his house, the full of books that are difficult to pass, he has a stench that works, where across the street is pinned for life, ever since, this letter, the original. He sees it every day and every moment. He's listening right now. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] He told me to pass on to you, to all the forces of the democratic arch, his delight, his excitement to everyone, the work that has been done, the effort that has been done and that will be done from now on. She told me that she was particularly in agreement with what Mrs Anagnostopoulos said in relation to the focus to be made on the issue of the peace treaty and the objections made by Germany and the Contracting Parties to this effect, which are made to the substance of the matter. For my part, I simply have to repeat from this Step what I promised him several months ago, when we made the fourth edition of this book and gave it to both foreigners and representatives who came with us, that I am sure that they will be well, possibly better than us in a short time and will be with us when Parliament will make an international effort in Europe as well. He had called for it to be present for the internationalisation of the issue, for us to go and put these matters to the foreign parliaments. He'll be with us. That promise we give it from this Step and I think we are unanimously giving it to him. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is obviously not a question - and from my role - of entering into the conflict, the controversy that existed. I believe that all the actions taken before and after, and now they are small, are fingerprints, are pieces of a puzzle, which today make the country much stronger in claiming German allowances. I refer to all efforts from all sides on the dates that have been said, which have been submitted. I would like to say, however, that it is of particular importance, which I believe no-one can silence in the heart, to be indifferent, to the effect that in this Parliament's period of time there has been a statement in order from this third committee, that it should be processed, in this Parliament's last part-session, in its last part-session and five months before the elections, the decision on this matter will be taken. These are facts that are also illuminated by the objections, the differences that exist through the path of how we got here, but this fact in itself produces a historical result for this case. I think we should all keep this. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an excellent juncture for claiming German allowances. It is an exceptional juncture, because there has been a maturation within the country. I shall turn to this by closing down on how the House has been involved in this maturation in these years. At the same time, there is a maturation within Germany. A lot of things have been said. For reasons of their own - and we know very well and political reasons which have existed in Germany in recent years, which have put the anti-fascist movement on the surface and are interconnecting it with the times, which have been buried under the veil of oblivion - there are also very positive attitudes to the records of German and, above all, to internationalisation, disclosure, publicity and propaganda, in the good sense, in Germany itself, around the inalienable and the need for justice in relation to these requirements. Finally, there is a growing Europe-wide level, and a lot of colleagues have mentioned, precisely because of the time, that in the 21st century, there have come to the surface and revised schools of history that want to legitimise Nazism, fascism, racism, xenophobia and denouncing the historic events of the 20th century that have sealed all developments and the participation of all forces in the anti-fascist front. This triple maturation actually allows today better conditions for the claim to be made by the Prime Minister himself and by all the other parties so that there can be a result. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you this. These years we've been constantly hearing about rules. Rules, rules, rules! We heard that to be in Europe, to be in the European Union, to be elsewhere, there are the rules which should be respected. We have lived through a first, not frustration or delusion, but a demonstration of how some aspects of the rules mean and we have lived with the immigration - refugee issue, and we have all received it, namely the exception from the rules. Because, obviously, no time-consuming decision to take responsibility for the refugee - immigration - has ever been made possible by all European countries to safeguard themselves on the substance and apply it. And that was tolerated. And we also lived up to the rules in relation to the budgets for larger countries, more than four who suffered what was suffered, and so on. They're familiar with this. But here, in order that, which we have been discussing today, we must identify - because they are listening out of here and do well - that there is also a question of rules and that are the rules of international law, that is, the rules of solidarity, so that there is a supranational Union. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is unreserved rules, which cannot be lifted by any country alone, by any means, or by any means by any means be silenced. And I believe that there is perhaps in Germany's political elites - for their own reasons - a different perspective, which we should take advantage of. Because in recent years - and those of you, women and men, have known - we have been in the martial villages and in the honorary events - ambassadors from Germany, presidents of Germany, political officials from the German political staff have gone away - we will see how, I do not want to interpret the intentions, because they did so - from the cynicism mentioned by this Step a little while ago by other colleagues, from the first treatment of 20 years, 30 years or even decades, and they feel the need even morally, even 'closing the knee' in front of these events that are taking place. I would therefore like to close with this and say it because it should have been a common place for all of us because it concerns us and all of us, it has obviously not been done either by a man or by a party here. Ladies and gentlemen, the House has been present on this issue for three and a half years - it may not be known for some colleagues, and I wonder - and I mean the issue of claiming and the issue of maturation within the country and not just. I shall reply to a matter in relation to the European Parliament. So the House is well aware that it has published all the books that have been released in recent years, three or four large books, and the Germans and others, and we have been charities in all the books that have been released, translated with the aegis of the House to be released, and they have been the subject of conferences, seminars, seminars, discussions, publications and press, because I have heard somewhere that nothing has happened, somewhere that has been forgotten. I don't know who they were present, I hope we were all present, I haven't taken a receipt, but we don't seem to have a common perception of that. Also, the House was in contact with German lawyers and with all other initiatives, which are not all suspicious or all guided. For example, let me tell you, it was an excellent report by the Ebert Institute on German solidarity in the political parties during the dictatorship. They were present and were present by a crowd of resistance Greeks on real events that were captured and that form - and we should fight this - a common culture of memory on a Europe-wide scale. This is the issue, not to raise new walls in search of the existing, present differences within our country, how much more so with the German people who have been detained or with the European Union. Four times I've heard from this morning what happened in Estonia, etc. All that's true. That is not Europe or that is not the European Union. There are too many samples in there in many countries - states even in their elites that are completely different. So we're present. We're present for Auschwitz. On May 2, exodus of the Greek Parliament, you know very well that the opening of the exposure of the great monument to Auschwitz will take place as we were the only country that had no such monument in Auschwitz and had some plans for decades from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Exodus of the Greek Parliament and with a hard effort of three years we will go on 2 May to inaugurate this block where we will, I hope, pass tens of thousands of students, young people, foreigners, internationalized... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...at the price of twenty-seven thousand - only in Auschwitz - and their names are all there and they will be seen there by Jewish fellow citizens and not only by Roma, by different and by Greek resistances. Also, the refreshing plaque here - which we are dating every day and which we are spending - for the eight fellow Jewish MPs entered these years and entered from all of us. And every year we do the honorary events after decades for these eight colleagues who were victims of Auschwitz. Furthermore, the foundations of the great were also in place - it will be the second largest museum for the Holocaust - museum in Thessaloniki and there have been events and honorary acts, conditions in relation to the trains that were going, the marches and demonstrations. This is all a claim, which has been kept alive in these ways too. It is not only a claim to entice who went, how, on what date to tell what public or in the intestines he was leading. It is obvious here. The President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, even I in meetings and everyone else, have always raised the issues, but that would not be enough, would not say anything. The House was present in all of this. I also believe that there may be a misunderstanding on the subject of the European Parliament as well. As a Greek Parliament, we have just learned that there was this debate in the subcommittee to raise this issue, and we have sent to an extraordinary job in the Chamber in English, English, German, the conclusion to our MEPs and to the European Parliament immediately, in order to take account of international public opinion there and to the European Parliament in this debate that the Greek Parliament has begun the procedure, there is the conclusion of the committee which will come to plenary. These are facts. No one has been silent about these things. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today we are obliged to speak with a sense of duty, with a sense of responsibility. Talk in some way with history and say all together after the opening of the claim once again: No! Never fascism in Greece and Europe!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty one students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th High School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall now proceed to the second part of the Special Daily Order concerning the decision of the Greek Parliament on the proposal by the President of the Parliament to claim German debts, in accordance with Rule 51(4) of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Tuesday, 16 April 2019, at the Conference of Presidents, I recommended to its members the inclusion on a special agenda in accordance with Rule 51(4) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, of Parliament's decision on my proposal for German debts, which the Conference of Presidents broadly accepted. I will read to you the draft decision which - after the majority decision of the Conference of Presidents - I have the honour of proposing to this House. Before that, I would like to give the floor to Mr Pafili, because colleagues have said from a point of view that they are tabling a proposal of their own to write in the Minutes and to explain to us himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u240	We have also tabled our own proposal in the Minutes. Of course, it does not allow the Rules of Procedure - which should also be voted on in a different proposal. That is how the Rules of Procedure are interpreted, I do not want to comment on it. Our proposal and our disagreement with the text put forward in the House is clear. It is, first of all, about the responsibilities which exist so far and, secondly, about concrete measures and steps to be taken to claim German allowances. We shall therefore vote on this proposal. It is clear and politically interpreted by everyone. That is precisely what we disagree with this general resolution tabled by the President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u241	Thank you. Signed in the Minutes. It is clear that, in relation to the initiation of this procedure, there is agreement on your part in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, I read the text of the decision to you: "Decision of Parliament of the Greek Parliament. In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 16 April 2019, which accepted by a large majority the proposal of the President of Parliament, in accordance with Rule 51(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament (Part Four), the Greek Parliament, having regard to the fact that: With effect from 27 February 2014, 10 March 2015 and 18 November 2015, unanimous decisions of the Parliamentary Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly on the claim of German debts were taken by a large majority. The Intergroup Committee took into account the findings - Reports of the General Accounting Office of the State (March 2013, December 2014) of the Legal Council of State (January 2014), as well as other relevant state bodies (Ministry of Culture, Bank of Greece) submitted a finding - a report where the opinions of the representatives of the parties involved were recorded. In view of the fact that the issue of debts to Greece since the 1st and 2nd World Wars remains open as an undetermined debt seeking persistently his moral, historical and legal justification, that the claims of the Greek State and the debts from the First and Second World War remain outstanding and active as a whole, that the Greek State was never and in any way renounced its claims and that it was not and could not raise any question of derogating the claims of the Greek State, calls on the Greek Government to take all the appropriate diplomatic and legal steps to claim the debts and to fully satisfy all the claims of the Greek State from the First and Second World War. This Decision shall be notified to the President of the Republic.’ The abovementioned decision will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u242	Please, those who agree to rise...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, before the vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u244	What do you mean, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, I think - and it is in the spirit you have defined - that this text should refer to both previous committees... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, I've heard and understood. You refer to the decisions, but you do not mention the two committees. Both of these committees should - both their minutes and what was produced there - be a single body with the minutes of the committee which we discussed today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Javarra, excuse me. This can't be done. We are referring very clearly to the decisions of the IA, the IF and the IZ's Session on the establishment of the committees. This is all embedded in the finding. We're not voting for the conclusion. You know the findings aren't voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u247	We're not going to vote on the conclusion!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u248	That's what I'm telling you. The debate has taken place, and that is why it is a second agenda. The conclusions were discussed. The findings are of an opinion. We are not voting for the conclusion to vote for both of the previous ones. We are voting for the decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u249	You're bringing us a text...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Javarra, I'm not bringing you any text. I bring you the text of the Conference of Presidents where - by disagreement from the JRC on the question raised directly by Mr Pafilis - the other ones proceeded with this. What else can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u251	By doing so, in accordance with Rule 51(3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure, this matter is included for discussion and decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u252	Signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u253	So, before the decision, there is a debate and when I ask for the floor, I ask him to give precisely the signal of the omission I have seen and that is what is happening in the context of the Rules of Procedure. I know very well and I am in a position to understand where regularity exists and where irregularity exists. That is why I am telling you that apart from the committee which put the specific conclusion, as you said, which, on the basis of Article 45(2), is not a vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u254	Please do not repeat your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u255	That is why I am telling you what I have addressed to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u256	I would ask those who accept the proposal to rise. [[Receiving the proposal]] By a large majority the decision was made! [[Difficult applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the House whether it agrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u257	The House therefore adopted a majority. First of all, the debate on the report by the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on German debts under Rule 45(2) of the Rules of Procedure has been concluded and, secondly, the decision by the Greek Parliament on my proposal, the President of the Parliament, to claim German debts, pursuant to Rule 51(4) of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u258	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-17-S1-commons.u259	With the consent of the House at 21.16 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, April 18, 2019 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, according to the agenda distributed. I would like to inform you that the time has changed for the bill, the debate of which will start at 14.00 p.m.
