ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 16-1-2019, the minutes of its PRACTICAL session of Wednesday, 16 January 2019 were confirmed by the Bureau.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 18 January 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 269/14-1-2019, a topical question by Congressman I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is calling for a selective partition of municipalities with micro-party criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 265/11-1-2019, a topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "At what stage is the project to attract visitors to Lake Ladona, amounting to EUR 1.289.618?" 3. The question by No. 275/15-1-2019 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of the Interior, about the "transfer of students from musical and artistic schools". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by No 270/14-1-2019, by Mr Charalambos Athanasiou, Member of the Commission, to the Minister for the Interior, on the subject of the "Democracy of the Municipality of Lesvos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 279/15-1-2019 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Direct actions to integrate Crete into the Transport Equivalent". 3. The Question No 278/15-1-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the "Capetagonal" building in Heraklion Crete. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Gilolas to the Minister for Environment and Energy about air pollution in Nafplio by a firework on the coast road of Neos Kyos in the Argolikos Gulf. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 2854/29-10-2018 question by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "with the transfer of a membership of the LAG from the Medical School of the Democritus University of Thrace to the newly established University of Western Attica". 3. The number 591/29-11-2018 report by MP Rodopi of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Timeline of the Muslim priesthood in Thrace".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would first like to raise the questions which will not be discussed because of an impediment to the competent ministers. The third, with number 274/15-1-2019, timely question for the first cycle of the MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Image of the collapse of the irrigation network of the GEOB Penios - Alfios", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister, Mr. Arachovitis, on a planned journey to Berlin. The first question under number 268/14-1-2019 in the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukorous, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Following the Single Agricultural Aid and Forest Maps', will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister responsible, Mr Arahovitis, on a planned journey to Berlin. The fourth question, with number 260/9-1-2019, is the first question of the Piraeus I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of an inland ship”, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the relevant Minister. The second question under number 261/9-1-2019 of the Greek People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antonios Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Museum of Macedonia and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the relevant Minister. The third, with number 263/9-1-2019, topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Kazan ready to explode the state of Skopje", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible. There is also the letter from the Secretary of Government. We begin with our second question under number 267/14-1-2019 in the first cycle of the Member of the Republic of Attica Mr Athanasios Bourreras to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: ‘New Organiser of the Single Social Security Agency (ESMA)’. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Here, Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the new establishment plan of the Single Social Security Agency (ESMA) has come to my attention. Based on this, the Regional Unit of West Attica is divided into two Directorates, First West Attica, based in the Municipality of Eleusina and Second West Attica, based in the Municipality of Phyllis. I must admit that I was surprised when I was informed that such an important municipality, such as the Municipality of Aspropyrgos, is part of the 2nd address in Ano Liosia, which is inappropriate as Aspropyrgos is not connected with the Municipality of Phylis. The Municipality of Aspropyrgos - and I do not know whether the author went or never went from the region - is the largest and largest municipality in the whole West Attica region. In addition - and this is the important thing, Minister - it hosts 40% of the heavy national industry. There are all the refineries, the steelworks, the chemical industries and everything else you can imagine that supports the national economy. Let us not forget the fact that people live in the region where the economic crisis has hit them more than elsewhere, at many levels in recent years. They have lost their jobs, lost income, they have no resources and they find it difficult to move, because they do not have the same means of transport, they are old and - as I said before - there is no transport connection with the Upper Leosia. I was informed about this when it was sent from 'volivwatch' on December 25, that is, on Christmas Day, a note - which I will give for the Minutes - which says, 'Is it true the closure of the ELKA Elefsis?', to which Aspropyrgos so far falls. On this occasion, then, I confirmed the information by communicating - when? - 27th. You can understand that on the 25th day of my briefing - on Christmas Day, I was informed - the next day was a holiday, etc. Indeed, it has just been confirmed by the Office of the Governor of the EFKA, with whom I have contacted, that this is the case, I sent it immediately on 28-12-2018 - I will put it together - a letter to the commander of the EFKA, expressing concern about the problems that will arise from this decision. In the same context the mayor of Aspropyrgos, who was ignorant of these issues - and I will explain below - sent a letter dated 31-12-2018, noting that it would be preferable to create a social security section in Aspropyrgos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u4	The rest in your dentistry, Mr. Bourra. Come short, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u5	Yes, Mr. President. I'll be done. After that, Minister, and on the basis of the fact that I have been on holiday all these days - which were also holidays - I kept communicating, I submitted a letter from 10 January, knowing that the procedure has not yet been completed...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Bourra, put your questions. I can't give you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u7	I shall conclude, Mr President. I also contacted the relevant Legal Department of the Presidency of the Republic. I would therefore ask you, Minister, if you intend to set up a C address based in Aspropyrgos. This is where the industry is produced, where the national product is produced. If this is not possible, at least in economic terms, can a corresponding decentralised section of Aspropyrgos be created - as for the Megaras -? Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm filing the documents that I mentioned above.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I'll give you clear answers. You asked if Elefsina was abolished. The answer is that it is not abolished. There is no provision for its abolition and you are wrong to ask, because you have it in the establishment plan, that Elefsina existed, exists and is maintained. Second, Aspropyrgos never had a department. Well you said there's a lot of business, and so on, but all these years, since the rainbow was made and the birds were dying and all the beauty of the Triasian Field was lost, it never happened to Aspropyrgos either part or appendix or anything. So don't ask to be created now. I, Mr Bourrai, find your interest truly important, but I answer you - since you are asking - to know and tell our fellow citizens what it is that we are doing. What we are doing is creating - and there is already a great deal of progress - a Single Social Security Agency, where the insured person will not have to go to find the employee, because the employees of eight thousand who were in 2010 were reduced to about seven and a half thousand, when we were responsible for the management of social security. In these circumstances, therefore, the automatic electronic organization of services is even more urgent. For this reason, an electronic pension application is subject to the relevant entitlement to the institutions. In order to receive a pension, no person needs to go to the local stores. The islander doesn't need to take the boat. You find Aspropyrgos away from Liosia. Think of what is going on with our scattered islands and mountainous, remote areas, where you need to get a lot of transportation and stay overnight to serve. That doesn't exist anymore. It's already gone. This suffering has ceased to exist, because electronically the application is submitted and electronically the insured person is now enrolled with the platform we have, with the inventory for farmers and other professionals. So what you're saying is not really problematic, because we're solving them. The sickness booklet has already been formally abolished and electronic integration by the EEA is imminent. One does not need to go to the FBI to consider a health booklet or to consider his request to have medical coverage abroad. It's common business done from local stores. We therefore have an electronic briefing of every person insured for the contribution he owes. You don't have to go to the stores. And in order not to disapprove, all the process that we are organizing is such that we don't have to build in each village and every city and a store of Efka, because it serves everyone from where it is located. But, because I always want to be consistent in my time, if necessary, you'll give me a little more time in my dentistry to answer, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u10	Because you are consistent in this Chamber, if you want a minute to finish, you have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. I'll say that in my denture, if necessary, you'll allow me to expand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u12	That's a moral reward.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u13	What I'm telling you is that, despite what you said, it lasts two years for consultation on the organogram of the ECA. In April 2017, it was placed in public consultation, in August 2017 it was approved by the Board of Directors of the EFCA and posted in the ‘DENMARK’. One month after his post, in April 2017, we sent it to the regions, in the thirteen regional units throughout the country, to comment on us, because we were also interested in the opinion of local government. The "DENMARK" has been posted since then. I wonder how the mayor invokes ignorance of an organogram which also existed in local government for almost two years. This is in support of the good work that we have actually shown on these issues. At least four changes have been made to the organogram. We had no trouble not making any changes where they needed. I have as a reservation on my part to see whether there really is a need - you told me that the municipality was able to offer space - so that there would also be a service annex there, even though it never existed. We'll see. I have no objection to seeing it. But let us first function and see in practice if there is such a need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u14	Here, Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u15	Minister, I am truly surprised when you say there was never a unit in Aspropyrgos. It wasn't, of course, the FBI. There was there - and on the turn, beneath the big bridge - the great IKA of the White Tower. Now what you're telling me was never there, etc. Secondly, nothing, he says, is not abolished. I'll testify the organogram I've been looking for. He's talking about territorial jurisdiction, West Attica's address. And I have to tell you that all this happened during a vacation. In fact, in contact with the author, Mr Mitsopoulos, people recognised that there is indeed a problem. You are now telling me about an electronic application, and you are telling me about these methods in which they use modern technology. For what people? For the thousands of Greeks who find it difficult even to move? Are you telling me that people who do not even have basic training will go to make an electronic request? You're telling me you don't have to go yourself and do electronics? But where did you get that? Aspropyrgos, we want him for garbage, we want him to produce the national one, and we do not want him to make it easy for the world. And because they have not informed you correctly - I am presenting the establishment plan to see the Minister if he is abolished - I say that Aspropyrgos is abolished and is part of the Ano Liosias. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned establishment plan, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And that's right in Ano Liosia. But in this area, there had to be a C' address or at least a decentralized section, which you just smiling it, while I was waiting today for you to say directly that there is a problem. Send someone to see or go yourself. We can go together. And because you have also said about the information, I have indeed been very concerned about this all these days. Yes, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Study, was completely ignorant. And I say to you - I have here the relevant document, which I shall be tabling on the Minutes - that the ECA has sent the Attica Region to have the responsibility - a document, in fact, since April 2017, which called for positions to be taken. I contacted her office. That's what I'm telling you, to tell you that I'm not trying to make an opposition. It's a big deal. I've been trying and trying all these days to be able to solve this. That's why I had communication and I learned that it didn't go any further. He had not been signed by the President of the Republic. There were two opinions, the number 126/29.6.2018 and the number 174/18.9.2018, and it was - and it is - until at least the day when I tabled the timely question - in the office of EKKA, it was you, at the Ministry. The FBI asked Mrs. Duru to do so. Mrs. Duru sent it to the deputy chief. I called the vice-president and said "I didn't send it anywhere, nor did I inform any mayor". That's what I officially tell you. I would also like to mention the document he says. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you know what? It says that the territorial competence - so listen - has been determined on the basis of the boundaries of the Callicratic municipalities. This should be the division or the needs of the citizens and, in particular, those who are in this very difficult area and have no means of electronic intervention to apply for and receive pensions. They don't even have elementary education. I told you again. After that, Minister - I would sincerely ask you - to see the possibility, as you said orally last night, so that the third section could be established, as the Minister was given this opportunity, or that the corresponding arrangements for the Grands were made with a decentralised section in Elefsina. And I would like to hear that from your lips today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u16	Good, Mr. Bourra. You're clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u17	No, 'we'll see', but say it straight away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building, how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" thirty students and students and two teachers attending from the 67th High Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u19	Mr Bourrai, as I have already said in my first speech, if there is indeed such a finding that there is a place for a service office, we will do so. Besides, I have to tell you that no one for this long-term - for almost two years - has been calling for a consultation on the name of EMPKA - we were told 'delay, what you think to do' - we had too much criticism because we were late to complete it. We were late to complete it because we were expecting everyone's interest to manifest itself with proposals and concrete suggestions for better operation. That's what we care about. Indeed, where they happened we followed them all. No proposal was made for Aspropyrgos. But that's not the point. I don't want to blame some people. We are actually talking, but at least it is unfair to say that all our care has not been taken into account, to take account of local factors, the various institutions, the residents and even the officials. All the comments made have been taken into account. I'll remind you that they've changed almost four plans. The original plan did not foresee Napatto as an address to these issues. Indeed, there was a Member of Nafpaktos - I have an observation here and a question 'why do you not do it' - and we took into account that this geographical unit is indeed in difficulty in accessing it. It is the mountain tumor of Evritania and Evritania that can be served by Nafpatto. And we did. Don't tell me we're not interested in that. We are concerned about this and I do not want to criticise anyone. I told you we'd see how it works. I have to let you know that Athens retirements are going to Thessaloniki. There is such a lack of organisation - in the past, it is not today the subject - that there is a population which is disparately distributed for the needs of social security. Depending on the origin - I suppose - of the Members who placed them in the past, there was some sort of accumulation of many and elsewhere. That's the way it was. What can we do? We said to change them. Because that's the way it is, I'm telling you, too many files...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u20	However, there are now four years behind the present government. I know what you're saying and you're right, but there are four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u21	In May 2016, the new Single Social Security Institution was passed and I really would like to present this work at some point, Mr. President, not with our own testimony, but with the testimony of those who noticed us, the special technical advisers from the IMF. Anthems exalt the country and praise us! It is a good example to follow this and this good example where it is necessary, in addition to the gloss of Christos Katsotis - and he smiles at hearing this - you will see that what has been achieved will be something that has nothing to do with the old images: Clearly unlimited outside the doors of the social security institutions, to be served. There's no more that. Even on difficult issues, which were really for many layers of society - the request to return retrospectives and a number of other topics - you did not see a single tail. How does that explain? It's because the FBI operates in a different way. It serves citizens electronically, and this is a great proof. Finally, so that I don't take advantage of the President's love towards my face, as I took her too...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u22	Moral reward, I said, because you're one of the people you always come to this House and answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u23	I'll see that if there's any in practice. Why should I say it? You know, in three months, the FBI will be different again. It changes month after month and it is important that the insured person serves in his home there. He doesn't have to run. That's our vision, that he doesn't have to move at all from his work and go to tails from here and there. That is our purpose. It seems strange to you. It has already been achieved to a large extent. So check us if we don't get that vision. That's why we should all try together and help you, too. However, because my mayor said he was offered to give room, we will. I'm telling you, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u24	That's the best.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u25	We'll put one or two employees over there with an electronic connection to serve.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u26	It's all good. And Mr. Minister and Mr. Buras thanked for Aspropyrgos. We move to the fourth with number 249/7-1-2019 in the second question of the new Republic of Athens, Mr Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The issues of the operation of the Intellectual Property Organization". The Minister for Culture will answer. Here, Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the four years of your government proved your devastating policies even in the field of culture, with which the Left was supposed to maintain privileged relations. In two critical areas, that of cultural heritage and that of copyright, you have taken a completely wrong path. You followed the path of the rapping and depreciation. The hypothesis of the supermarket and the assignment of ownership, but mainly the exploitation of thousands of cultural goods, exposes you irreparablely. You are releasing the country's cultural wealth, without seeing it, but quite consciously. The same policy is being pursued with regard to copyright. You don't respect creators, artists. You have not received any provision for their protection, while completely cloudy are also users' obligations. In everything you are operating without rules, without framework, probably not ignorance, but feasibility. We had repeatedly warned you that the Intellectual Property Act passed in the summer of 2017 was not going to meet the needs of the creators. We were also talking about these rules, which must be rules of transparency, legality and accountability. We had raised serious reservations in time for the legal framework for this Special Management Agency established by the IPO. In the already problematic situation created by the collapse of GNI, you have added an exact state structure, which is legally waste, as the ODI, which is the supervisory body of collective management bodies, was at the same time designated to exercise collective management. We are the only country in the European Union where the state exercises collective management. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All this time we have insisted on the issues of operation, transparency and respect for the lawfulness of this special service. Unfortunately, we have not received any response, and that is why we are coming back today, because we are talking about a service that operates with the Greek taxpayer's money and we want, Minister, you to answer us. On what criteria, then, were the members of the board of directors of the OPCW selected and how is their intellectual property experience presumed? Because this is provided for in the Statute of the OPI. Have supply or service works contracts been concluded by way of a derogation from the ODI Procurement Regulation, which are of an urgent nature? What are these conventions and what needs exactly do they meet? Why has no administrative act causing expenditure been posted to DISCLOSURE so far? You should be aware that unsubscribed administrative acts are not enforceable. We also want you to inform us how many people and in what capacity they manage the EEAS from its recommendations to this day. What expenditure in detail does the specific grant of EUR 3 million to the OPI, which was granted in October 2018? I would like to remind you that from 1994 until now, the presidents of the OPI have been symbolically paid - indeed symbolically - for about EUR 50. Has a fee been approved last year for the seat of the chairman of the board of directors of the IPO? And if so, what height is it? I would like to present in the Minutes a relevant post entitled 'Twenty-wage-pay-pay-pay-for-pay-for-principle'. Please answer these questions with details. [[At this point the Member, Mr Olga Keroyannis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, Minister, please tell us how much the operation of the special service has so far been costed, especially what work it has done. How much money has he collected for rights and how much of this has been attributed to creators, artists?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u28	Madam Minister, here you have the floor with a relative tolerance and you have the questions raised by Mrs Kefaliannis, which were many.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u29	It is a great deal, Mr President, but there are detailed answers. I will, however, begin with the transfer of ownership. Mrs. Kefaliannis, it would be nice if you hadn't signed a transfer of ownership, because then you'd be more reliable. But Plaka's real estate talks. We excluded the archaeological sites in 2016. Secondly, we recorded them and identified them. Thirdly, we are now legislating to ensure that there is constant protection, if any danger arises, for it to be dealt with. I therefore think that your insistence has no justification. Secondly, when we talk about creators and their rights, we are talking about their survival. The sinful 'host of the Sanctuary', which has been tolerated by your governments for many decades, I think it speaks for itself. Therefore, the criticism of the solution that we have given I think it is inappropriate. However, I would like to reply very specifically to you that the contracts that have been concluded are the ones necessary for collective management and always for the purpose of distributing rights to the authors. The EEAS has a transitional character and it is necessary, because after the years of GNI sin, it is natural that we have to assume our responsibility for the public interest and therefore ensure that this transitional period exists, which will lead to the next phase of the creations themselves being able to manage their rights. I think it is simple, clear, understandable to thousands of creators who participate. But - and this is precisely why - this is an extraordinary grant, which is given in order to have a functioning of the EEAS. Therefore, the issue you raise about "DENMARKING", as you know very well that "DENMARK" needs to be published when there is more than 50% of the regular grant. Here, in this particular case, it is not necessary. I will, however, speak to you as long as I can, about the staff and staffing of the departments of the EEAS. We have fourteen persons with fixed-term private-law contracts, which have been done with an invitation to show interest, eighteen people with six-month service contracts, forty people with a mandate to delegate specific tasks, based on their experience in collective management or special knowledge of the specific subject matter of their activity. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] You are well aware that there is a special expertise in the management of online rights, in the documentation of music works, in the management of categories of music users, etc. I can't spend any more time reporting everything. There are also three lawyers with service assignments and two staff assigned by a legal person to whom financial services have been entrusted. Therefore, here we are dealing with a set of operating costs for the nineteenth day of January - November. The figures in December will be at the end of January. You can ask another question if you still have a question. The amount therefore amounts to EUR 415 310. The total operating expenditure from its start - i.e. from June 2018 - until December 2018 amounts to EUR 582,904. Of these, EUR 27,174 relates to payroll costs for civil servants and employers’ contributions and EUR 10,733 relate to costs for the acquisition of fixed equipment. The balance relates to costs incurred in respect of project and service contracts. For the purpose of the operation of the departments and their staff, the departments shall be the commercial sector, the computerisation sector, the distribution functions sector, the administrative sector, the legal service, the member division, the communication and international relations section. The total revenue of the EEAS for the period from its entry into force on 31-12-2018 amounts to EUR 297,098,77 and has received EUR 1,762,706,89, of which EUR 1,815,29 has been distributed to the beneficiaries of the EEAS. I think this is very important and that is what hurts in relation to the previous situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u30	Before giving the floor to Mrs Kefaliannis, she asked - and not to come back - how much the President's remuneration is. Is that a clue?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u31	I don't remember exactly. However, I must say that these, about EUR 50, mentioned by Mrs Kefaliannis, concern periods when the Governing Council actually operated in a completely formal manner. The President is currently carrying out executive tasks. Therefore, his remuneration is reasonable. I think it's around 2,400 euros, but I'm not accurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. Before giving the floor to Mrs Olga Kefefaliannis, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building, how to organize and operate the Parliament and toured in the exhibition of the Hall "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" thirty students and students and two educational attendances from the 67th High Athens (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u33	We are wrong in discussing copyright that is very important for creators, but of course also for users. I cannot take any time, Mr President, to answer the reproach of the Minister for the transfer of immovable property. This superstition, which, for the first time in Greece - your government - has agreed with the lenders - where you granted all of the public property for ninety years to a superstition, which is not under the sole control of the Greek government - cannot under any circumstances be parallel to situations that had nothing to do with the sale to which you have advanced. So I will tell you that at the moment you have more than two thousand monument codes, so cultural goods, which you have assigned to the superstition. Although we have asked so many questions and interventions, you do not even have - even today - any legislative or administrative intervention to correct this constitutionally unacceptable transfer of monuments and archaeological sites. Here we want to note once again that it is not just the issue of transferring ownership, but also of management, who will manage these archaeological sites and monuments. I will tell you and why the parallelion took place about what happened in 2013 with Plaka's properties. I should like to point out here, Mr President - you know that in Plaza these properties were expropriated. It wasn't even historical buildings. So we are not talking about archaeological sites, as has been done today, or monuments, and we are not even talking about historical buildings. We were talking about expropriated buildings belonging to the Ministry of Culture, which were transferred to TIPE, which was a Greek state entity under the control of the Greek state. Therefore, every parallel - I say it again - is totally misleading. Madam Minister, you have a constitutional obligation to protect and defend the cultural wealth of the country. So I come to the issues we are interested in today in intellectual property. The legislative arrangements made by your Government on these issues have essentially brought the market to a dead end. I am sorry that you do not understand and see this because a great opportunity has been lost to incorporate the 2014 Community directive correctly, which had been successfully tested in larger - sized countries - from the Greek market. We all remember the recurring over the law of 2017 and the plan tabled by Mr Baltas: he took it back, he changed it, and Mrs. Connordos repossessed it. We came in 2017 to vote for a law that finally only succeeded was to give a kiss to a dead GDPI, but not a definitive solution to the issue. After recurring and unexplained delays of your predecessors, who together with the artists we have complained about, you have led to a solution and temporary and legally ill. As we said before, in the end, it was your dream rather of staining spiritual right. However, the State must be a guarantor of legality, not a competitor in a market at the same time as overseeing it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There are, therefore, issues of both Greek and Union law and, of course, issues of competition law. There are also issues relating to privileged access to records and data of bankrupt GNI. With your responsibility and your blessings, this special service does not respect the principle of transparency in public administration. We ask again: why has the EEAS not posted its repertoire on its website? So how does she charge her users? With what repertoire and what reciprocity? I want to present a report containing the extrajudicial protest of the Hotel Chamber of Greece on the arbitrary reciprocities borne by its members. [[At this point the Member, Mr Olga Keroyannis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, unlike your assurances, all we see is the recruitment of parties and 'days', out of the process, with excellent wages and full of opaque status. We also see an increase in rights in the market for users by 150%. We find division and chaos. Users do not know what they have to pay, since there are two amoebolics in the same category, and they all say that they represent 80% of the repertoire. The result was either not to receive the spiritual right or not to be adequately collected. The market is upset and this is your responsibility. The first time we shared and supported the struggles and anguishs of Greek artists in this matter. We have been with them, not in words, but in practice with our lasting speeches and attitudes over the years. We care and work to support the Greek repertoire which is an integral and important part of Greek culture. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u34	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u35	What did we do? We revoked our GNI licence, Mrs. Kefaliannis. I think you should not ignore that. Of course, since you cannot make self-criticism about your signature and the transfer of real estate, this also shows the degree of responsibility you state in public. I'm really sorry about this. You insist on transferring ownership that has never been done and insisting on inaccuracy. You do not recognize to the very least that the properties have been excluded and that, therefore, after their identification, we are moving into a legacy. I hope that this legislation, which you so much have to say, will be passed when it comes - very soon - with the bill of the Ministry of Culture that has been tabled in the next couple of weeks. So we will see that in the debate then. It's two thousand thirty-three. I've corrected you before, I think. You're getting a little confused. Let us remember the numbers, because we will soon see the list of identified ones. I must say that after decades we have managed to have a full record today of archaeological sites, monuments. Therefore, with the legislation we will soon be able to have full protection. This is the situation, no matter how much you don't like it. In this time that we administratively needed to solve problems with identification, you continue to say that we did nothing. Now that we move on and see what else you have to tell us. As far as GDP is concerned, as I said, we have already withdrawn its authorisation. It was therefore necessary for there to be a procedure. It seems that you do not pay much attention to the procedures. But we take them seriously. But that takes a little time to say, limited, compared to the chaos you have left to be created at the expense of the creators in the past. So, at the moment, we have the OPCF and a few thousand creators - and it is no accident - to be in the EEAS process so that the mechanism can function. So how would we do him? Without people, without functions, without legal advisers, without the board taking responsibility for his or her responsibilities? That's what we're accountable for. We are accountable to the creators and I do not think we need to create impressions here. We are working systematically in this direction, and we will soon also have the completion of the solution that we have adopted. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u36	We move to the fifth, with number 255/8-1-2019, a topical question for the second-round question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Reading errors in the code of insurance and the specialisation with which various foresters have been hired." Mr Katsotis will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Mr Athanasios Eliopoulos. Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have repeatedly brought this timely question, because it is a programme that is in operation. Of course, it ends at some point and it takes time to correct the mistakes that have arisen for those workers who have been hired with this programme in order to avoid being wronged, as regards the code they should have in their insurance, in their heads. And we're talking about the real code and not the one who's accidentally done - we believe - the service, so that they, if you like, are deprived of these insurance rights arising from their joining this code. Of course, in the letter from the Lavrio Labour Centre and also from Larissa - because in these two regions there is the problem - there are problems that arise. We include them in the question. These workers have not been granted personal protective equipment, suitable tools for carrying out these tasks that you know are very important to the environment, for fire protection and for the flooding associated with all this operation in the woods. There is also a mistake in the HS category employment announcement form in the anti-nuclear protection programme for forest ecosystems in the region of Thessaly. The title ‘grain, figs and fruit packers’, which has nothing to do with what it is. We ask whether you really intend to correct these mistakes here. I imagine you're inclined. We are also asking whether you can intervene in order to take these measures necessary for the work of these partners.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u38	Here, Mr. Heliopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, I would like to begin with this. You are quite right that there have been some management problems in the programme. Indeed, this is the first time that such a programme has had a double target in a way. In other words, social work has also been targeted at people who are long-term unemployed, so that they can be reintegrated into working practice, but at the same time it also aims to produce a multiplier social effect to which you have also referred, about how crucial it is for such procedures to be carried out for forests to be carried out preventively, but also, overall, what this means to the forest economy and to protection. There have been some management problems. We are already moving to rectify the issue with the meaning. Evidently these people have to get signals that correspond to heavy and unhealthy. We don't question it under any circumstances. There is a specific technical issue in our debate with the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. For foresters, you know there's a special regime. So we need to see how they get signals that are heavy and unhealthy and how their pre-services are measured in the right way, so that they can later be entered in the traders' registers. You know that this cannot be done automatically. That's the one. Secondly, on personal protective equipment, four checks have already been carried out for personal protective equipment. Where there was a complaint, the inspection went. At the moment, the information and the image we have of the controls is that personal protective equipment have been provided everywhere. Nevertheless, if you have another picture in specific cases, we are very pleased to continue the audit process by the Labour Inspectorate, so that this can be resolved as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u40	Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u41	Mr Minister, firstly you know that there is indeed this problem with correction. I think it should move quickly and not be delayed. As far as the special scheme you are saying is concerned, I have to tell you that the teachers of this programme have been through seminars in the forestry service. That is, they are not unskilled workers. It's, as the forest service says, itself. So there is no such issue, for example, that they should not be entered in the registers. That is the issue that I think is something that can help you directly to move forward and not to delay its solution too much. As far as the issue of protective equipment is concerned, there is, of course, the letter from the Lavrio Labour Centre, where the means of protection have not been provided here. I do not know about Thessaly, it does not refer to their document, but it has not been preceded here. It is an issue that I think the Ministry should check, so that we do not have problems with the health and safety measures of workers, because in recent years there have been many deaths and injuries. We believe that measures need to be taken to avoid and ensure the integrity of all these workers working under these conditions. It is an employment necessary in the light of the floods and the lights. The forest should have this activity with the workers so that it can be cleaned and renewed. It is a function which, of course, in the programme is currently facing some problems. However, the work of these workers is over with the end of the programme. But the work in the woods is not over, Minister. It is necessary here with the forest service to see a plan so that these workers continue to work in order to avoid floods or fires and all that our people are facing with serious consequences in their own lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u42	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u43	Mr Kattotis, you are absolutely right about how critical the part of the health and safety of workers is. Once you tell us that there is a complaint from the Lavrio Labour Centre that the question of personal protective equipment has not been resolved in this area, we will also take the necessary steps through the Labour Inspectorate. That's the first. My second point is that none of the people who are currently working in the programme will be wronged. The signals they get will correspond to heavy and unhealthy. It's going to be solved globally, it's going to be solved for everyone. Obviously, we know that the needs of forests are much more structural and stable and are not covered by a programme. We have never thought that these programmes are the answer. They are a vote in an attempt to change direction. However, the Greek economy must again acquire activity within the forest compatible with the concept of forest that keeps it in life, renew it, and so we avoid all the phenomena you have mentioned. These programmes will also continue on this issue and our aim will be for there to be much greater importance in the future in the areas of education, so that know-how remains in the good sense of these people in these areas and that such activities can be developed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u44	Thank you both for earning time. Here is the sixth question, under number 246/7-1-2019, on the second question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The Government is arbitrary at the expense of private sector workers from not recovering, for the purposes of housing restoration, the 1% withheld contribution on their wages". Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. When the Labour Residence Agency was abolished, Mr President, the 1% contribution on the wages of workers concerned with the strengthening of the Labour Residence Agency, which was available for the purpose of housing recovery for the insured, continued to be collected by the OAS as successor to the Labour Residence Agency. I must remind you that the OEC was abolished in 2013, so it has already been five years. Contributions shall continue to be paid. From a rough estimate, which has been in existence, there has been one billion of the total funds. And I am referring to the fact that already in 2019, as shown by the OAED budget, there are revenues of EUR 285 632,000 from this resource, but there has been no housing rehabilitation programme, without any planning being announced. On the contrary, there are rumours that this money has been transferred to the Bank of Greece, that they may have been made available for other purposes. With today's economic crisis, you understand that they are absolutely essential to private sector workers because they will meet housing needs of those who are deprived of private residence or who will provide through the occupied ombudsman's reserves loans for housing rehabilitation. Unfortunately, nothing has happened over the past five to six years since the date of abolition of the OEC. I must remind the Minister that there are still settlements which have not been completed. In particular, I am referring to the settlement in the Grevenas of the OEM, which has been in its fate for six years, and while the draws have been made, the beneficiaries cannot be installed. In fact, a question has been put for this purpose, which has not been answered. Following that, Mr President, the questions raised are, firstly, whether the funds of these contributions remain available to the OAED or have been made available for other purposes, and secondly, what are the intentions and commitment of the Government within a timeframe to relaunch housing rehabilitation programmes either by subsidizing loans from the former ESC's resources or by building houses? Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u46	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Carras, the briefing you have is not exactly right. At the moment the contribution is 1.35% and goes to the Social Policy Account to the OAED and that's where it stays. He's not going anywhere else. The sector under the name ‘Social Policy Account’ is the sector that has the employment and vocational training account, the so-called LEADER, and has been integrated into the single account for the implementation of social policies. There the budget for this year is at 410 million and it is a part of the LEAK and a piece of the rest. Let me tell you that only three years 2015-2018 have there been 310 million expenditures, which relate precisely to the objectives that OAED has inherited from OEK. In other words, it is the completion and delivery of settlements within the framework of the OEC's construction programme, interest-rate subsidies for housing loans, rent subsidies, social tourism schemes, and campsite projects, which are normally implemented. I should like to mention very quickly and within my time only some of the programmes which are already running to show you that expenditure is normally spent at this time. In 2016, it was issued, although it was made a recommendation of horizontal property and two hundred final titles were given to settlements in Ierapetra, Nerokopi, Istia. In 2017, horizontal property recommendations were made in twelve settlements, i.e. in eight hundred sixty houses, of which nine concerned Olympiacos. In 2018, horizontal property recommendations were made in eight settlements across the territory in five hundred and fifty-eight houses. It was completed and delivered to the beneficiaries six housing settlements with a total capacity of thirty-four houses and a total cost in Messini, Xyilagani, Nigrita, Iupoli, Ano Liosia, Karditsa 9,305 euros. Three projects were studied and completed to restore and complete incomplete settlements totalling 4.5 million in Elefsina and Xylagani. It was studied and auctioned and the repair was carried out to give the final beneficiaries for forty-five undisposed work dwellings ex OEC total of EUR 530 million. And finally, housing actions totalling EUR 27 million were put up. That's not what I'm telling you in detail, because it's a lot more. I'm just telling you this to show you that these procedures are going on normally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u48	Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I am told by the Minister's answer that these settlements, which have been delivered, restored to beneficiaries, are buildings, are settlements, which have been built in recent years, or are it simply for the completion of processes of the past? Because my question was specific and concerned the period since the OEC was abolished and from now on. Of course, the organization, the OAED, now, as successor, has the costs of managing this money. However, I have not yet received the answer if, in addition to what the Minister said, the housing programme will continue to be implemented. In addition, my question and reflection lies from now on: Contributions are entered in the OAED budget and we are talking about social policy revenues and, in fact, you say, Minister, because this is where I have received the item, the insurance contribution of 1% of former OEK, you have already spoken about 1.35. You'll tell us what the difference is. Furthermore, I would like to ask whether it is the Social Policy Account only for housing assistance, because I must remind you that housing assistance is a constitutional obligation under Article 21 of the Constitution, for workers and for our unabled fellow citizens. Finally, I would like to hear whether the Minister has the element of what a real balance he has left from this account for housing rehabilitation purposes, since the Minister has told us most of it goes to employment and education. From what I understand, they are directed towards various obligations of the OAED, which, of course, are not those which are part of the purpose of withholding remuneration. The Minister said that rent and other allowances are paid. That is what I would like to hear if they are part of the rehabilitation programme, because the housing rehabilitation programme concerns the acquisition of a private residence. As far as the housing allowance is concerned, the government has announced that it will give a housing allowance to many of our fellow citizens, but I do not think it should come from the worker's contribution to housing benefits. On the other hand, as has been announced by the government, it is a provision which comes from budgetary revenue, i.e. taxes and not withholding the wages of workers, which must always be payroll, when we keep for a specific purpose and it is not tax revenue, because I fear, Mr Minister - and let me say it - is now converted into taxation, because if workers are made available for purposes other than retention, they are only entitled to retain the percentage of their earnings for these purposes. I'll beg for more specific answers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Carras, I think I was clear. Obviously when you have received settlements, which have not been completed, and so you complete this process, it is clear that you are continuing this work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u52	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u53	I'm sorry, I didn't interrupt you. When half the settlements in Greece had not been completed or after inspections had malfunctions, malices and these had to be built to get people inside, so you continue this work. That's the one part. Secondly, it is very important that today with this position you are actually making an act of self-criticism for your own period, because we did not abolish the OEC, someone kept the OEC. And I am very pleased that we agree that there should be a public housing policy in the country, because it seems that 2013 was not the debate on whether there should be a public housing policy in the country. Thirdly, you know very well, because you have much more experience than I do, that public finances now have a very strict framework, which does not allow for costs. All expenditure goes through the Court of Auditors, so they must be fully consistent with the objectives of the OAED in the specific context and in this part they go. No expenses have been incurred for any other purpose. Fourthly, very importantly, why is the recovery of this debt going well at the moment and does the OAED have the money, has the reserve, so that it can cost and redesign housing policy as a whole? Because housing policy is not just building houses, it is a wider framework of housing policy and social housing throughout Europe. We can learn a lot from Western Europe about what social housing means. It has a grid of actions and on this grid of actions, we will move in the next period. Why are we moving next time? Because we have money to move in the next period. And why do we have money to move next time? Firstly, because unemployment has declined in relation to your own days by 8% and by October when the elections were held, it will be reduced by 10%. It is not just that unemployment has declined, but at the moment three hundred and eighty thousand more workers are working in 2014 and the full-time and part-time relationship is 70% -30%. Secondly, because through the reduction of the undeclared and undeclared work and the OAED is receiving more money. What is the result of this reduction? From handing over undeclared work to 20% and currently undeclared work is approaching 10%. And I'll give you a clue about the overtime to make it look like we're chasing the supposed job. While in 2017 only five thousand businesses across the country had declared even an hour overtime overtime that they were needed for the whole year, following the change we made in the legislative framework, more than sixteen thousand businesses in 2018 declared overtime. All this shows that the resources exist and the mood exists. We are completing and closing holes that have been delivered, and we will obviously soon be moving on to new actions in a more comprehensive housing policy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Carras, not now because we're already late. It's already 10.45 ́. We close with the first with number 266/14-01-2019 in the first cycle question of the SYRIZA MP Mr Nikolaos Maniou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: 'Environmental implementation problems'. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Is the Minister asking about this? The government of SYRIZA on 17-11-15 completely reformed the decision that existed since 2014 for KIMO for the Central Electronics Register. This may not be known by many people or knowing it very little, but it was an amazing action, which enabled small producers to process their products and through the control process of the CEMO, the Central Electronic Register, to be able to sell them. This gives a life of breath to the small areas in our country and the Cyclades Prefecture, where I am a Member. At some point, however, in the summer of 2017, in a paradoxical way, there was an amendment of this KHS, which you had built as a government in 2015, which, by all the small owners, made a distinction to the producers of livestock, cheese products, saying they had to sell them themselves, by personal presence, that is to say, at the disposal areas. This, as you can see, is impossible because a farmer on the Cyclades islands cannot come down from the mountains, with his handkerchief and production and go sit outside a grocery store or in a grocery store or in a supermarket or restaurant and sell his products. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This change caused problems for farmers in the difficult mountain areas of the Cyclades Prefecture, and that is why I would like you to tell me what the Ministry is thinking about or what the Ministry has done on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u57	Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, first of all, let me say that your question really affects a problem that was created in 2017 and to which we have an obligation to give a solution, which we have done. To start with - as you have pointed out - that the choice of our own government is to provide all possible help to producers of small farms so that their produce is of high added value and that substantial aid is given to assisting their income. For this reason, the Ministerial Decision 4912 was adopted in 2015 specifying the simplification of the application and registration procedure in the KIMO registry and all details of the eco-technical preparation. The problem that has arisen in Decision 1438 of 2017, and in particular in the wording that the final products are sold retail at the disposal points themselves, I would like to inform you that it has already been resolved. We have already made progress in abolishing the hypothesis, in paragraph (e) of Article 7 of that decision, so I think that this problem is no longer raised. In addition, for the help of the householders, we are also amending point (c) of paragraph 2 of Decision 3724, and in particular we specify how the sale of products with two legs takes place, either directly to the final consumer from the farm or to the market closest to it, and we are talking about the people’s market or derivatives market. The second way, with the possibility of selling in sales stores supplying the final consumer. In fact, at this point I would like to tell you that this is specified in shops and in the regional section, in which the farm head office is located, but also in neighbouring regional units, thus extending the local market to which the producer, owner and owner may have its products. I think that this is how you solve the problem you are putting and the processed products of the households are now intended for direct disposal to local events, local people's markets, derivatives markets, where they operate, to retail businesses and to mass-focusing businesses on the local market. I would therefore say in conclusion that for very few days, if not hours, your question has prevented the problem from being resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Manier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u60	Madam Minister, I should like to express my satisfaction to the Cyclades farmers that this problem has been resolved. As time is valuable as you said, Mr President, I will only say two things about the arts, because we Members and the people must understand it. The industry enables the producer producing the product, to have it in compliance with the standards, health and other standards, production. It enables and leads producers to market their products through the normal market and the economy and not uncontrollablely. It is very important that we take this big step that will take several more years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u61	And no middlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u62	It's not just without intermediaries, it's that since the grower who makes the cheese, he can't sell it to a restaurant legally with the documents, he's going to sell it to the village square at some point of opportunity. This is outside all quality control and market control procedures. I must ask you as a proposal - and you must think about it in the Ministry - that honey should not be excluded from the products of the crafts sector, even though it is not processed - it is not processed, because in the same spirit it will help apiculture in our country, which is at very good levels, to be marketed in a brand name through the proper rules of the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u64	Thank you. I just want to say that the main priority on our part is to strengthen productivity and competitiveness, strengthen local products and rural areas. In this respect, I would like to tell you that there are programmes from the Ministry of Rural Development that support small and medium-sized enterprises, and in terms of highlighting the quality of the product, strengthening innovation and, in general, all those procedures that will favour self-sufficiency and the nutritional adequacy of products. Let me also tell you what you said about honey. Indeed, I think you are right in that, because in this way, in addition to the aim of upgrading local and quality products, we are also hitting the problem with the trade, and we are already looking into it at the Ministry of Rural Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u65	This concludes the debate on the topical and urgent questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religion: "Cooperations of National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Agronomic University of Athens, University of Thessaly with T.E.I. Thessaly and Central Greece, Pallemnikos Fund and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 16 January 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. I assume this House has no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u67	The House agreed. I can inform you that three amendments have already been incorporated into the bill. There are, apart from the two of the Minister's two amendments which the relevant ministers will come and defend and present to you during the debate. The list of documents is opened and will be closed as soon as Mr Kelles comes down from the Step. Seeing and how many colleagues you will have signed, we will make the overall programming. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we showed that we are not afraid to dare. We trust society and social forces. We are trying to answer the questions raised by society in the best possible way, leaving out the inert materials which do not allow this society and the country to go ahead. With this bill we have to discuss and vote today, the strategy of the single area of higher education and research, which had begun with the University of Western Attica and the synergies of the Universities of Ionian Islands and Ioannina with the corresponding TEI of Epirus and Ionian Islands, continues. But this bill is much more important in one respect. The synergies are much more extensive, but also in terms of their geographical scope. We have three major university institutions, the National and Kapodistrian University, the Agricultural University of Athens, as well as the University of Thessaly, which acquire synergies in a new landscape with the TEI of Central Greece and the TEI of Thessaly. As in previous bills, where the strategy of the single area of higher education and research starts to be implemented and the processes started under way. It is very important, and I stress it, because when they start from below, forces are being decommissioned, those powers that will finally begin in the implementation of a bill, a law. On the other hand, these same forces also assume responsibility for moving forward on a project. You know, no matter how good the law is, if the directly concerned don't get involved, if they don't believe it, if it's not their plan, then the law stays a little in the air. We had learned so far in our country, by 2015, the reforms in Education, mainly from 2011 onwards, to take place from above. Someone decided, of course, and applied or tried to apply in a landscape that he did not know, but, above all, did not care about or care about, mobilize the world from below, those who keep the highest institutions alive and in difficult times, to mobilize and join a particular vision. This resulted in the introversion of the society of higher institutions and fragmentation. And when the hard ones came during the crisis, the Minister then decided what to close, how to close it overnight, without computing it, without being part of a plan. So here we have something else. It was decided below to implement this strategy of the Single Research and Higher Education Area. What question did he hear and the Ministry was asked to answer? The first fundamental question is what university we want in the 21st century, what technological education we want in the 21st century and how this can best be done. I also told the committee when we discussed the bill, using the expressions of my friend Fotini Vakis, that the University of the 21st century must have Aristotle and the biomedical, critical theory, on the other hand, the scientific and business park. This is the University of the 21st century and the state's duty is to shape the conditions for people on this ship to serve this vision. With this, then, the bill has the synergies of these three major university institutions together with the two TEIs. Let me say one thing here. And in the law that we have today to vote on, it seems one thing: TEIs, because we are talking a lot about technological top institutions and that they could become universities of applied sciences, these institutions themselves, since they have been finally superiors, have had the tendency, and rightly so, to survive in an international environment which is very competitive, to grow in the theoretical direction - at least some of them with very good sections, and the teachers, the TEI members, have a great deal to do with research - and indeed the same academic qualifications have - to become potential universities, at least some of them. A university, however, must treat science at the same time and in synergy. Otherwise it cannot be understood, otherwise we have the paradox that we have seen with TEIs, the same scientific objects being cured at both TEIs and universities. To have this paradox without communicating these two together. I am not saying, therefore, that it is a pointless term 'applied sciences', which I myself used to flirt with, in order to find a solution, and I confess it here, but seeing the deadlock that led this thought. The strongest weapon, however, was for these higher institutions and sciences to work with each other and people above all. That is why this strategy has a future and answers the question of what universities we want, what higher education we really want. The National and Kapodistrian University knows that. It is the oldest university in this country, and since 1838, its mission has been one: education, education of national forces, association, homogenization of these forces. We know that he had a policy not only for national forces within Greece, but also outside Greece, at the time of his establishment. At the same time, however, it was the most important channel through which knowledge, research, was passed, produced abroad here in Greece. It was, that is, what it guaranteed that the Greek nation, the Greek state belonged to the enlightened nations. It is important, therefore, that in these synergies the oldest university in Greece enters the head. The second is the Agricultural University of Athens. And that's why I don't have to say a lot of things. The Agricultural University is the most important sample of a university which has tried and tried to date with its innovative research, its knowledge of mobilising, rationalizing, disseminating know-how to the most productive powers of this place. The third university, the University of Thessaly, which is the newest university, was established directly from the outset as an innovative university. Just to mention the story that at the time when we still did not know what the University of Thessaly is, it began to produce, operate interdisciplinaryly. All this, together with two TEIs, which have brought together departments very strong, is working together, and this is reflected by the new departments set up and also by the university research centres set up. I'm going to put a little emphasis on university research centres. The Rector of the University of Athens, the EMCDDA, said so in committee. It is worth emphasising. While at a university the departments, more or less, identify the sciences, that is, "I do this and the next section does that" the university research centres demarcate the sciences. So the sciences are in contact with each other. This is the most important thing for the University of the 21st century. In other words, research is produced and you will see in the law, you have certainly read it, the institutes created in these research centres. That is, the sciences of technology, theoretical, modern, modern sciences, digital, etc. They're in contact with each other. This horizontalization is very important. I shall not say, then, either for the Europe Technopolis, I think you have read it carefully, where culture, social sciences, but above all technology is in excellent relevance and synergy. I will not say about the University Centre of Jason Thessaly, the Agricultural Institute, etc. so I don't eat too much time. All of this shows that this horizontalisation creates the ground to have greater in relation to the rest of society and the research institutions we have. Here I will insist, and I tell the ministers too, that synergies be made with the research institutes in the country which are too strong. Another very important element of the bill is that it breaks this fragmentation and locality. Everyone locked up in their own small world, in the interests of their own interests, not in the bad sense, of their territory. The fact that these institutions undertake to overterritorize localities, that is, local authorities have reference centres and create concentric circles is the 21st century university. In other words, local communities enter synergy towards a great purpose, which is nothing but the benefit of society. So we have important issues. I will say something as a parentheses, but which is worthy of emphasis to me. You know in the N.C.E.S.S.S.S.S.A. breaks a section that we knew as PPE, Philosophy, Pedagogics and Psychology, and three sections are created. First time in the oldest university in the country, a Department of Philosophy is founded. We, who are proud of our ancient heritage, our secretarial heritage, our cultural heritage, had only one Department of Philosophy that at the University of Patras and nowhere else. We want to attract people, we want to attract strangers to come. The Chinese ask and we didn't even have a department of philosophy at the National and Kapodistrian University. So imagine what happened and how important it is, not to say. The New Democracy's answer to this is, of course, to open private universities, as if the public universities were done to open up privately. One final point for the bill, which I could say a lot - unfortunately, I do not have time for the main part of the bill - would be to say that these universities and as shown by synergies with the new sections that are being formed, the university research centres, etc. show one thing: This constant devaluation of public universities, that it is nothing but centers of lawlessness, we should sometime rethink it, what all these people, who have done in this important field of higher education, how important things and how to find a leadership that will move on to them and make them in a similar project work, how it can produce huge added value for the benefit of society and in synergy, which I forgot to say, with the local bodies. I will close, Mr. President, and please give me two minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u69	I'll give you a minute. One you've already taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u70	Okay, give me two extras, please. For the amendment tabled and to be voted on on the appointments of teachers setting out the criteria for the appointment of teachers, a lot has been heard and there are reactions. I shall make it briefly and briefly: firstly, the anointing of a decade is broken. This government has shown from the outset how much importance it attaches to education, how it has tried to achieve both the highest levels, and to appoint people and set up public education on its feet - I hope the ministers will say what has happened - but here a law is passed, criteria are laid down which respect the fight that the Deputy Professors have done for so many years, that is, a hundred and twenty molecules, twelve years of service and the work of these people. The degree as the basic degree required by a teacher to be appointed, but here is not to take into account the postgraduate or doctoral qualification, this cannot be done by the educational community, especially when our public universities are the ones that give these titles. To create competition between teachers themselves and to talk about a model, I think it is the worst thing to go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u71	Mrs. Anagnastopoulou, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u72	The universities themselves correct where any problems are needed, that some buy from abroad postgraduate, etc. Don't underestimate people. The social criteria are also taken into account in the remedial movements made by the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u73	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, I can't show you any more tolerance. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u74	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would therefore like to say that if this amendment is not passed now, what will we have? I'm not saying for availability, I'm not saying what Mr. Mitsotakis said in his interview, we'll have ASA with tests and most people staying outside. I am pleased to vote for the Ministry of Education bill. Mr President, thank you and apologies for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of thirty-four American students and an escort from the University of New York. The House welcomes them. Dear guest, we welcome you to the Greek Parliament [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Listen, ladies and gentlemen. Fifty speakers have signed up to now. If we do not discipline in time, at some point late in the evening those who have not spoken will suffer a reduction in time. That's what I don't like. Now all the central rapporteurs will be given two minutes of tolerance, if necessary, but please respect each one who goes up here the following ones. We're going with Mr. Kelles. Then, if the Minister is ready, he will present his two amendments to us so that the other rapporteurs will know about them to be placed. And because the State Secretary, Mr. Army, is here on an amendment from the title, as I see it, is obviously not a difficult amendment, I will give him the floor for three minutes not to hold him in plenary. Mr. Kelles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last Friday, in closing the debate in the Committee on Forestry, I said on the occasion of the upcoming Tsipras and Kammenos meeting that this bill may be your last and may not arrive on Monday in plenary. However, in the last few days, we have seen a poor performance being under way by the people. Tsipras and Kammenos, which aims, on the one hand, to maintain the prerogatives of Mr Kammenos as Head of Party. Mr. Kammenos resigns, his ministers remain. Mr Kammens withdraws his confidence in the government, but his MPs vote. Who do they think they're making fun of? They're putting Mr. Tsipras through the press. Is it possible for Mr Tsipras to accept the opportunistic and marginal support of his government by MPs, who will vote against the Ambassadors' agreement? Anyway, your time is running out. And I would like to say to everyone who supports the prepared government in the Prespecies Agreement will be called upon to account in history. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Minister brings to the vote a draft law which consciously seeks to eliminate the country's technological education through the absorption of the TEI Thessaly and the TEI Central Greece from the University of Thessaly, the ETUC and the Agricultural University of Athens. This option in the context of the reorientation of the map of higher education is literally found in the air and is so imposed without criteria and provision for the future. And a few hours before the bill was introduced in plenary, the Minister's adviser, Mr. Kyprianos who designed all this catchment project, submitted his resignation and accepted by the Minister. But that's not enough. The Minister has revealed to us that Mr Kyprianos has resigned because he - he says - for the president of the PPP, that is to say, he directly told us that he is trying to mock another independent authority, which condemns the irresponsible provision of the country's academic map, which you are trying to make. You also said, Minister, that the Republican authorities of TEIs and local authorities agree with your project. So I am presenting here in the Minutes the unanimous decision of the Larissa City Council on 8-10-2018, which speaks of the freeze of the project. I address the letter sent by Mayor Trikalon to the Prime Minister, you and the Members of SYRIZA, who speaks of a raw job. I also table the decision of the TEI Thessaly Challenge of 1 October 2018, which is negative for the merger. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Kelles, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, the Rector of TEI Central Greece expressed its strong disagreements about the depreciation of TEIs. The truth is that, in this case, you have brought a project without academic criteria, without assessment and without a viability study. What is the truth, Minister, of the committee that you have set up for the evaluations of the TEIs and the absorptions from the universities? Why don't you give it to the public? Is there a conclusion? Why have you been silent for a week? Are we going to get an answer? While, on the other hand, the decision of the Evaluation Committee for the TEI of Crete speaks of self-reliance and progression at the University of Crete, third university in Crete. In the explanatory statement to the bill now. TEIs at the beginning are exalted, and then they are presented almost as useless to justify their extinction. In the title of the bill we read the term "sympathies", but only synergies are not. In fact, it is a question of violent and iso-demand absorptions of the two TEIs, without academic criteria, without evaluation, without a viability study and without provision for operating costs. From the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, the provision says that only for staff salaries, the annual expenditure is EUR 9.5 million. But the main one: the annual expenditure on the operation of the new schools and departments is incalculable. The General Accounting Office of the State. As far as the integration of TEI members and students is concerned, the bill produces inequality and causes injustices in relation to the absorption of the TEI Epirus and Ionian Islands from the University of Ioannina and the Ionian University. The main difference is that in the two previous absorptions, the LPI members and the students joined similar sections of the LPIs. While, in the case of Thessaly and Central Greece, they are part of unrelated departments. It should also be noted that TEI members are not directly integrated into the new departments, as is the case with the Epirus and Ionian Islands TEIs, but they will be channelled to the general departments, where they will pass through an evaluation of three-member committees and in particular first-level teachers from two evaluations so that they can be integrated, if they eventually join the other departments. A similar transitional administrative regime is not defined and accession councils, consisting of University Representations and three LPA members, have been set up to complete the academic project by 2014. Minister, the counter-progressions of universities are more competent, are they more appropriate than the only ones of the last year elected dean authorities of the TEI? And since the Rector authorities of the TEI can do so at the Epirus TEI, why can't they at the University of Thessaly, at the TEI of Thessaly? Why two yards and two stations? Same Minister in the same country. But injustice is too great for students. Apart from being forced to change in a narrow direction of study, professional rights are also being lost. They are confronted with uncertainties, such as, for example, students at the Central Greece TEI, who will have to wait for a presidential decree to join one of the new departments. And I ask, why this unfavourable treatment? Your plan is academically isotopeic. Nine new schools, including the two, are created, the Geoponikos that are reconstituted, and forty new departments that result from foundings and renames, including the four general sections of all three resulting from the split-up of the EMCDDA. Parts of crucibles are being formed for scientific objects. For example, the Departments of Energy and Environment Systems of the University of Thessaly, which are channelled by the engineers and engineers of Thessaly, as well as the Nursing Department of the University of Thessaly, which includes the students of medical laboratories, if they want to upgrade their degree in PI. And here I'm going to stand in particular and insist. The Medical Labs Department is a very high-based department with very high absorption from the labour market. Why is he closing down, Minister, this department? What are these small interests or great interests that require the closure of this department? You told the committee yesterday that you would write to the Dean of the University to see the matter again. Is there any chance, Minister, that you would like to become the Department and say no to the Rector? We need political will, you need a decision and I will insist on it. Because you also told us that there would be something similar to the University of Western Attica. But at the University of Western Attica there is a Department of Biomedical Sciences with five directions, radiology, medical laboratories, dental technology, optics and optimism, etc. At the University of West Attica will receive a degree in biomedical sciences in the direction of medical laboratories, and here they will get, Minister? Graduate in nursing if they want to upgrade their degree. That's what your bill defines, and that's why students got up. That's why the teachers rose, that's why all the MPs of all the parties in Larisa and Thessaly stood up. In the explanatory memorandum to the Mergers Act, the Ministry of Education stated that in the past there has been an unscheduled increase in segments, overlapping of cognitive objects and their spatial dispersion. And I ask: is today's project not the exact same thing? Exactly the same. In the new sections at least 10 overlaps are identified within the same institutions and many times within the schools themselves. Two examples I'm going to tell you traits so I won't eat time. University of Thessaly, Karditsa, Department of Science, Food and Nutrition, and ten minutes next to Trikala, Department of Dietology and Nutrition. At Volos, Department of Culture and Creative Instruments and Department of Intercultural Studies. To Volos two of the same schools!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u77	Are these bothering, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u78	You create stillborn parts with low absorption, dear colleague, in the labour market. So, what do we do? We're creating unemployed scientists. That's what you're doing. That's what the bill says. Of course, in committee you have expressed your conviction that universities offer general education and culture, without aiming at the professional rehabilitation of graduates and that, with professional rehabilitation and the prospect of unemployment, we are creating - he says - stress in children and putting them in the wrong psychology. In fact, universities offer education. However, universities are, of course, inextricably linked to professional rehabilitation, and there are guidelines in high school. That is why our educational system accumulates both education and science for the professional perspective. Are the Brain Drain and the tens of thousands of unemployed graduates in Greece amphetamines? No, of course not. Are they uncultivated? No, of course not. Business doesn't work. So, good is romance, good is your philosophies, but professional rehabilitation is even more important. First for the kids and then for the parents. As to excellence now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u79	Then what do we want from private?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u80	We know, you're not in favour of excellence. You've said it - and your predecessors - that excellence is a relic. We are in favour of excellence, and we are in favour of evaluation. In order to close the part of the multi-brand plan on absorption, I would like to refer to three points. Firstly, the absorption process does not include provisions that clearly define the audit of the EPPCs and the fixed assets that will pass into the possession of the universities. Secondly, the university research centres which come to the position of the TEI technological research centres that are being abolished do not fulfil those conditions that will make them legally. Thirdly, as far as the Aberofios Agricultural Food Technology Park, as well as the Europe Technopolis, is concerned, yes, it is in a positive direction. In order for them to function, however, they must become a legal person of private law, in order to have functional autonomy. And while we are talking about reordering schools and departments, the Higher Council for Education and Research in Central Greece is being set up. To what end? Listen. The study for the creation of a new autonomous university in Central Greece. Therefore, what emerges is that not only do you not care about reordering the map of higher education, but that it is promoted on the basis of syndicated, local interests and purely for voting purposes. That is why we are telling you, not the closure of the TEIs, not the disappearance of technological education. We say, yes, in the country's harmonisation with the international and European environment and in the upgrading of TEIs to technological universities. With regard to the other articles of the bill now. We have not received convincing answers to the Palemnian Fund, to research and to vague legalisation of expenditure, and to the other reforms, such as the amendment of the Ministry of Education's Agency, which within ten months we had the previous presidential decree. We are positive and say, yes, in Article 44, in the transfer of teachers. I now come to the contested amendment concerning the moleculosis of teachers and their appointment to the public and, in particular, to special education. First of all, this was a draft law in consultation and it came into effect as an amendment. We are clear that we are fully in agreement with the appointments to public education, but we disagree on how to mobilise it. As a new Republic, we propose a mixed system, objective, inconsistent and fair. This is a system for appointing teachers, based on the following pillars: Firstly, increased moleculosis in the education service. We cannot ignore the teachers who have supported the education system for so many years. Secondly, performance in an APA competition, which will not, however, occupy more than 30% of all molecules. We are talking about how much the percentage will be. Third, academic criteria such as degree degree degree degree, postgraduate doctoral, foreign languages, etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u81	And a basic degree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u82	And a basic degree, of course. Fourth, social criteria. I think it is necessary here to say that there must be a specific moleculosis for the multitude. You cannot, Minister, give every child three molecules, in the first three, in the second three, in the seventh three, in the tenth three, when a one-year graduate takes twenty molecules. Special care must be taken for the multitude, especially increased moleculosis, when we are all in agreement here, but also outside here, that there is a huge demographic problem. Special attention must also be paid to disabled people. In conclusion, I shall also refer to the amendment tabled by Mr Paulakis, the Deputy Minister for Health, which in the first part refers to the urgent need for medical staff to be appointed to hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Kelles, listen to what I'm about to say. It is not about you, it is about all the rapporteurs and speakers. I'm saying this so you don't take time from your main location. There will, of course, be at the end of the debate, a period of at least three, four minutes, so you can make use of the other amendments there. Now, get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u84	I still need thirty seconds and I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u85	Just keep it in mind for other speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u86	We therefore agree in the first part on the appointment of medical staff due to the great needs and shortages of hospitals. In the second part, however, Mr Polakis in the appointments excludes the quotas to cover posts by candidates for specific social groups, such as tents, tritecs and disabled persons. This is a huge mistake and it offends the social rule of law. That is why we say to separate the amendment because we want to vote for the first part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u87	Before I give the floor to Mr Army for three minutes, he has come to the President of Parliament and I would like to inform you - we do not have to go now to the Conference of Presidents for this - an extremely polite letter from one of our contributors from Kavala - who, as I see - does not like the word 'blank' - has problems of vision, as others who are watching this House, but do not see and only listen. Our engaging party therefore asks every time the President-in-Office calls at Step, except for his name to say and which party he belongs to, so that the visually impaired can form an opinion on the positions of the parties. His letter is extremely polite. I think it makes sense, and at least I'll do it today and recommend to the...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u88	And in which constituency, for completeness.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u89	As far as the region is concerned, I will consult the President of Parliament, but as far as the party is concerned, I think it can be done today. Here, Mr. Army, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment, presented today by the Ministry of Culture, relates to the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Expropriations. The issues of this fund have been discussed in detail in the House, in the budget debate, but also in a timely question just before Christmas holidays. He is a legal person governed by public law, known to collect revenue from the archaeological sites, monuments and museums of the country. At the same time, of course, the government has shown that it is also an important development factor for culture. The installation of the online ticket to the large archaeological sites last summer proved the possibilities that exist and we have already begun to develop them. At the same time, it is also a cultural organization. I would remind you that the Archaeological Resources Fund has the exclusive right to produce faithful copies of antiquities, i.e. it is a public body that produces the faithful copies we have in museums throughout the country. He is also responsible for the development of inspiring applications, i.e. usable objects, jewels and other objects inspired by antiquity. It moves, that is, an entire part of the economy - the creative economy - around culture. It is what I am used to call a 'cultural economy'. This body is also responsible for the operation of sales of archaeological sites, museums and monuments. The problems of staffing, know-how and structural problems in this organization are well known. They were discussed in the previous period. In strategic terms, we are dealing with an establishment chart which will be presented next week in public consultation, first within the Ministry, and then a broader debate will be held, as should be done for this organization. At the same time, however, we have an obligation to prepare the museums and archaeological sites of the country for the next period beginning in April. The lack of a Director-General in this organization results in a significant overload of the president, who under the 1977 founding law of the Fund also has executive powers. In order to address this overload, the Management Board has decided and delegated part of the executive powers of the Chair to a member of the Management Board, which is responsible for coordinating the cultural product sector. The attempt made in the previous two months has already yielded fruit. You may have, perhaps, all seen press releases about the significant upgrading of the sales of the National Archaeological Museum. It is an excellent effort, which, in fact, has changed the image of the organization itself, but also of the Museum. Therefore, the significant improvement of the image in the management of our cultural heritage and the increase in the revenues we have seen are strong reasons for public interest, which substantiate the correctness of the board's decision to confer executive powers on a member of it. With our amendment, it goes without saying that when someone takes up a job which requires daily and long-term employment - and of course also the equivalent responsibility - he will have a corresponding allowance. Therefore, the amendment enables the Minister for Culture, together with the Minister for Finance, to set a compensation. In fact, you will see that within the amendment there is a limit, not for each member of the board of directors, but for a member of the board of directors who operate at least one directorate. We are talking here about the Directorate for Cultural Products. I therefore call on all the wings in this House to support the concrete amendment and the effort being made so that a public body, a legal person governed by public law, may upgrade the image of our country's cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u91	Please close the registration list. Mr Gabroglou, do you now want the floor to be put for the two new amendments? We know the other people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u92	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u93	All right, I'll give you five minutes of the reason to present them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. We are tabling two amendments. One is the appointment of all the judiciary-holders who succeeded in the 2008 competition. It is an incredible suffering that has suffered teachers for ten years, and we are putting an end to this suffering. They are four hundred and fifty persons who have been justified either in the Council of State or in administrative courts and are permanently appointed. The second article of this amendment refers to the fact that since the coming academic year, that is, in September 2019, in kindergartens and in the first grade of primary school, we are going from twenty - five students to twenty - two. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And next year - it will be the first class to become the second class - again in the First class will be the same... This is also a request from the educational community but - we think - and the whole of society. And this shows once again an element of normality that has now begun to exist in Greek society. The other amendment has something to do with...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u95	Are you referring to the amendment with a general number of 1920 and a specialist number of 217?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u96	You're catching me impassable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u97	It is the responsibility of the Secretariat-General for Religious Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u98	That's the one I'm reading now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u99	All right, so my fellow Members can follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u100	I just didn't have the number. It has to do with the resources of the Mosque in Athens. As we know, it has been established for some time now, its work has been completed and we hope that the inauguration of the Mosque in Athens will take place in March. There was a question of funding. In a previous debate, we accepted the New Democracy's encouragement to discuss a bit of the problem of resources. Indeed, there have been contacts with the parties and there has been agreement on the content of this provision on the resources that this Mosque can have. Its second element is the rationalisation of the offices of mushrooms in Thrace, on how they will be organised, on the basis of a presidential decree to be published within a very short period of time, and this amendment rationalises the operation of mushrooms and the issues of professional relations between officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u101	We continue with the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, Mr Gregoraco. Here, Mr. Gregorako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I see a salamification of the procedure. As soon as the debate on the principle of the bill has begun, amendments are coming. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Minister how much the amendment for the successors of 2008 costs. Has the General Accounting Office cost it? Anyway, what's being created is a bad precedent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u103	Are you opposed to implementing decisions of the TEC?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u104	No, I'm not against it, but the process is being circumvented.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Gregorakos is talking about the procedure. It does not go into the essence of your amendment. Keep going, Mr. Gregoraco.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u106	I got a call before. I have tabled a question for the EAW and intensive care units for two and a half months from 6 November. The Minister's not coming to answer. Right not to come, but intensive care units are full and are full of hospital corridors and there are deaths in hospital corridors by imprisoned patients. The Minister doesn't have the time for three minutes! We're watching this bill a great rush. I don't understand why there's such a rush. We want to standardize the universities. We're against it. So I tell you, before my speech, Minister, that we shall put a roll-call vote in the first place. So there are areas where one can easily see the philosophy and practice of the rulers. One such area is the area of education. The policies that the SYRIZA - and others are implementing from now on - in education are best illustrated by populism, by consequent customer relations and by those that are being defended in the run-up to elections. Let's go to elections. We've got to give it all up. It's all unspeakable. We do not disagree by recruiting the people of 2008, but we also want to know the cost. And he cannot come into Parliament when the draft amendment has begun. They are creating a bad precedent, Mr President, that you are an experienced parliamentarian. Sterling honors the first. This will be done and we will create such a matter that we cannot say anything. As I have said, and yet again, what the Tsipras Government has been promoting for four years in the sensitive health sector has been on the other side of a profound reformist concept. In fact, it reverses all those changes that are necessary in order for Greek education to come out of the stagnation, but also to meet the needs and demands of the times. Ladies and gentlemen, the development and prosperity of the country will not come from any fiscal adjustment, from the surpluses, or from ensuring all those you have been building lately and which are exacerbating the real economy. If we are left alone in this, all we will achieve is an anemic growth, the maintenance of a distorted and inadequate production model. It's the reproduction of misery. Our productive, economic, developmental and educational retardation makes our reliance on the policies of populism vital, which have the support of a parasitic system of customer relations. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Education follows on from policies that not only involve elements of rehab, but also further reinforcement and consolidation of populist perceptions. We all understand - and even instinctively - that the great bet of upgrading and rejuvenating the educational system highlights as the main priority ensuring a competitive education, a competitive Greek university, as well as competitive technologies and technological institutions that can respond with sufficient resources to scientific and technological developments. The common sense states that the assimilation of TEIs by TEIs does not constitute aid or upgrading of university education. Common sense also argues that the upgrading of technological education will not come from the integration of TEIs. It is this new model that cannot be understood. And the one vital need, but the other also requires the implementation of policies which are not based on the periphery of populism in order to simulate them all, and that is the value that each individual must have. Ladies and gentlemen, tertiary education is not a mixer where we put it all in, stir it up, and we make it poor. Education is not plentiful, as the SYRIZA Government is seeking to do. As you can see, in the Democratic Partnership your promoted educational policies find us completely opposing. That is why I have told you at the outset that we will go into roll-call voting in the first place. Our concern is not the use of educational mechanisms for maintaining government power, mocking citizens' ears and cultivating unscrupulous expectations in children. On the contrary, what we are interested in is to upgrade higher education, making the Greek university competitive, but also to help upgrade technological education, without cultivating hopes to anyone. I must admit that the SYRIZA Government does not let us hurt at all. Last surprise is the deposit of the bill we're discussing here today. Of course, we have amendments and amendments, and again amendments, and so an entire bill that had been consulted was tabled as an amendment. I'm asking again why is this a rush? We asked that in committee too. We didn't get enough answers. We're not covered. It has not been a year since you legislated the merger of the Athens TEI, Piraeus, and you have created the new University of Western Attica. Nor has it been a semester since you continued your plan with the bill for the association of TEI Epirus and Ionian Islands with the Universities of Ioannina and Ionian in the midst of the tragedy in Matti. When did you get to the point and draw conclusions? Have you ever evaluated the positive and negative effects of the university's operation? For the Ministry of Education, these are trivial details. You continue experimentation in the field of higher education with populist policies that undermine the quality of the public university. Obviously, you do not care that the new departments and new scientific fields resulting from the new bill will change this year's computer for thousands of high school students. With baptised 'embled' bills - for this is why you are baptizing them - with their main feature of their clandestineness, you do not care whether in the present state of the country all of this makes sense for the future of society. Minister, the anguish of the government today should be expressed by substantial bills, indicating that the state learns from its mistakes. I would like to make it clear here: I firmly believe that the role of technological education is very important for the economy of the country. Therefore, no one can deny the need to improve the scientific infrastructure of the TEI, to upgrade both the studies and the students and their teaching staff. In addition, I would like to remind you, Minister, that PASOK first supported and highlighted the importance of technological education in Greece, first with the creation of the TEIs, with the resolution of No 1404/1983 and with the continued support of their operation and qualitative upgrading. However, your Government with its actions leads to higher education in - let me have the term - "Technization" of universities and not to their substantial upgrade. For purely electoral reasons and without any preparation and evaluation, you open the way to becoming TEI teachers, with higher earnings than they have today. Similarly, the students of the technological institutions will receive a university degree. In fact, you, Minister, contradict when you attempt to explain your plans in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. What do you think? The question of the real upgrade of the TEI remains open today, despite the great steps they have taken thanks to their staff. The solution to the problems of TEIs and higher education is not the mere conversion of the first into universities. So how does the "university" of the TEIs mean? In fact, the objects of the new combined sections are a variation of the old. After all, it could not have been, since it is a given teaching staff. That's how it is, so it stays, so long as it stays. As the act proves, your concern is not to address the malfunctions of the institutions of the educational area, but to use the existing problems to serve short-sighted political pursuits. You do not connect the promoted changes to the real needs of the country, the economy and society. You resort to strategy games for the sole purpose of creating impressions and hallucinations. This is also the purpose of your attempts to integrate existing TEIs into universities, so that their graduates can obtain not a diploma in higher schools but a university degree, while the teachers of the technological institutions can be proclaimed by quick procedures as university teachers, even with limited scientific qualifications. In fact, you don't care about the quality of the studies, nor do you care about improving it. Your policy is purely customer policy. You seek to create dependencies and interests with the social groups associated with TEI. So you believe that you will be able to widen your complaint in the run-up to the elections. Your educational policy is reappearing in the past. He has a strong odor of populism. She's unremovable. She's untrained. Your only concern is to bike, manipulate the field of education, subdue it to your micropolitical plans. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, like the previous ones, does not bring TEIs closer to the universities. What makes the universities swallow the TEIs unaseptic, abolishing them without any plan, other than arrangements and defects. No provision for technical education and the role to be played in the economy and the development of the country. The TEI of Central Greece is part of the University of Athens, without a concrete plan for the overall reclassification of the institutions and without evaluation of the departments and staff. Which country has this kind of merger occurred in? This global originality does not correspond to any European educational planning. While mergers are taking place, obviously for economic reasons, at the same time, numerous new departments are being set up in large universities, with new IPA members, which we do not know how much they will cost. In fact, it should be borne in mind that at each major university there is a lack of teaching staff and courses are taught by scientific partners. I have also said in previous bills concerning TEI and IEI mergers: With other schools in the other operating universities in the country, an investigation should have been carried out on how the number of their degrees provided corresponds to jobs in Greek society. The role of universities, ladies and gentlemen, is not to produce groups of unemployed. Has the SYRIZA Government considered this? Have you seen what's been going on in the university space over the last few years, or do your vote slips not let you see? Yes, to study our children, but to take care of this degree as much as possible, that is, sometime to find a job. In addition, close to so many new schools in universities and the multiple young university teachers, new research centres are now to be set up. Your aim is to create additional jobs. Why is that? How about hiring the two of them? I don't want to believe any of this, of course, but it's my mind too. With the bill, therefore, for synergy between the universities of Athens - Thessaly - Geoponics and TEI of Thessaly and Central Greece, in Psachna, Evia, eight private departments of the EKT are established. 'Cambridge' and 'Oxford' are shaking the Squads! Also in Lamia will operate at the same time as parts of the University of Thessaly and the Agricultural University of Athens! If that's possible! Is there any logic in that? What, in the end, is the desired model for higher education? Tell us, at last, to understand it. Yes, it's something new, innovative, different, being with you. But we don't get it. There's no strategy, there's no plan. What is the aim of these reforms? At the regional gathering? Are we concerned, in other words, with going to the periphery of all these departments, or are we served by the division in schools and departments, with electoral criteria rather than academic criteria? Not to remind them, because we had made our self-criticism. And I'm making my self-criticism, because I've been involved in many of them - "not just every..." which Juda said - and the universities. We have to do our self-criticism. We founded in every city and every county university. We were wrong. For us, for the Democratic Association and the Change Movement, the single area of higher education and research, which we support, means synergies and networking between universities and research centres. This requires that all research centres be supervised by a Authority and governed by the same institutional framework. Unfortunately, you and your university research centres contribute to the further division of the single research and education area. With reference to your famous amendment on the criteria for permanent appointments to primary and secondary education, I would say that we do not think it solves the problem of the gaps created in education. You are effectively abolishing the ASPEC competition. Repeat the yearbook, while the teacher's profession thus becomes a closed profession. The repealed year is more modern and more classic. You make it more classic, as in particular in the modern reality of the Greek economy and society, not everyone has the economic potential to get postgraduate and doctoral, as well as attending annual seminars. Unfortunately, we've been going back for years. Moreover, there is no provision for the weakest. Adjudicated lists of teachers for special treatment include only the parents with a disability of 67% or more and not the teachers themselves, if they have their own disability. Their kids, yeah. They, if they're disabled, don't join. After almost thirty years, maritime teachers and schools of general or special education are excluded for ever, as any proposal that has been in place to date is abolished. You also pretend that you do not leave any candidate from the outside, and your only concern is to have free access to all citizens in the exercise of a profession. In fact, while you are claiming to recognise the pre-service of teachers who teach in private schools - you may want to serve private schools owners who would not like experienced teachers to go to the public sector - you forecast to count as the only one of the pre-services acquired by public schools substitutes, on the pretext of abolishing common tables of substitutes of permanent appointments. You leave all graduates from educational schools who have planned their lives, working in private schools, knowing that their experience could not be measured if they wish to be appointed as alternates, but would count when the time came for permanent appointments under Law 2834/2000. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In addition, they have a pre-service as a temporary deputy assistant or an orthodox teacher in OAED apprenticeship schools, as well as the Athens OAED and Lakkias School of Vocational Training. Why is this so, given that recruitment to the OAED has been done with measurable criteria and after a proclamation and that teachers teach their scientific objects? [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Teachers, who have no pre-service or have little pre-service, will have no hope and access to professional careers in education. I have also pointed this out to the committee - we think that for the second degree it should not be counted at all if they are not relevant to the import sciences. I had brought you the example of mathematics, who has also received another TEI degree, which is not relevant. Nor does the transfer of experience from general to specific education agree with us, because we believe that the services, the transfer of experience and this equation are not the same. As far as the degree is concerned, we think it is wrong to be mobilised in this way. It is known that from part of a section there is a big difference. There are differences. The designation 'good','very good' and 'excellent' rather than a unit that says absolutely nothing. So there will be a range that covers the differentiations between the segments. Finally, the number of empty organic posts has not been identified and you have not established new organic posts, especially special treatment. We tell every primary school and every high school to set up an Integration Department. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say to you: as a Change Movement we have a clear and firm position, namely, appointments and recruitment of single tables based on objective criteria, the rating of an AACC contest, the teaching pre-service, academic titles and social criteria. We respect the tens of thousands of substitutes who give the battle for the independence of our country by serving the education, but also the hundreds of thousands of teachers who have little or no experience. Everyone must have the right to dream, always with merit, objectivity and justice. Such legislation reflects your deep customer perception of education. You're taking advantage of such a sensitive field to play your party games. That is why we are not voting for it at all, but we also request a roll-call vote at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Gregos for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u108	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u109	Yes, Minister, we are listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u110	Mr Gregorakos, you said that you would table a roll-call vote, not on the articles and not on the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u111	In principle. The articles will be placed in the debate on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u112	No, I'm trying to understand your proposal. It's not a criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u113	We have said roll-call vote on the principle of the education bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u114	Have you submitted a request, Mr. Gregoraco?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u115	We'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u116	I now went to the Bureau, which is why I am asking. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u117	And now I'm off the Step. I'm telling you to be programmed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u118	And you plan. Here, Mr Grego, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u119	Thank you. We commented thoroughly on the committees. I would like to say a few words about education in general. We have several amendments again. I do not know, of course, how these measures will be implemented, how you propose to this bill, because in a few months' time you will obviously not be a government, and of course the parents, students and students will once again be paid for it. Amid democratic processes, democratic votes, democratic transfers of Members, we are discussing a draft law on education. It was heard in committee about attracting foreign students. And only the image of the Greek universities causes disobedience even to a tourist. We have been sent hundreds of e-mails from bodies, but also individually from teachers who oppose this bill. Unfortunately, I do not have time to talk about all of this. But I know that very democratically, you will still ignore them. I summarise the proposals and suggestions from the Federation of Deaf Greeks at the Agricultural University of Athens, the School of Food Technology and Development in the Department of Rural Economy and Development, the Hellenic Federation of Marines, the Coordinating Committee of Advisers of Education, ASE, the Association of Polytectures of Livadeas. I'm filing them for the record too. I don't have time to talk about it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antony Gregos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Many of the articles in this bill are photographic and voters, such as Article 32. It has become clear and beyond question that this is a government which is entirely governed by the traditional and totalitarian Marxist concepts, in every area of power and in this respect by the education and training of the Greek people and the Greek youth. It is a government and a Ministry of Education that first made the schools of Greece a tool, means and instruments for implementing the ethnic dilemma of our country and for transforming into a multinational and multicultural Babel, in which the Greek nation will be a weak minority. They are schools in which Greeks are already a minority among Albanians, mainly and very briefly in Syrians, Pakistanis, Afghans and all those who have literally come invaded Greece, which in a few decades will be a reality and will also apply to higher education. Of course, in this self-destructive project, the former government of New Democracy, which recently presented its plans for the demographic problem of the Greek nation, will have an active involvement - take care - which clearly provides for the integration of illegal immigrants and blind obedience to the minions of globalisation, such as the UN Pact, which was recently voted on in Marrakesh. It is a government and a ministry which, among other things, have effectively abolished the notion of school excellence, of school leavership and vice versa, has completely undisturbedly institutionalised the draw, among others, of all unequally and regardless of nationality, of schoolchildren for the supreme price which only one excellent, a young man, and that is no more than the price of being a signatory and bringing our national symbol to parades and national celebrations. It is a government and a ministry that uses Greece's education system as a whole to implement the requirements of globalisation and the communist levelling of the Greek nation and its glorious history, among other things, by abolishing from the educational material any value, ideal and historical given the glorious history of our nation. What institutions, however, of higher education is the Minister speaking about? Is he talking about men of lawlessness, crime, drug trafficking, illegal immigration? Is it speaking of the hideouts and bulwarks of anti-semitists, anarchists, anti-fascists and any kind of name "his" of children, which, of course, - as we all know - are using the buildings of EEIs in every city and village as bastions for their criminal excursions and the training of the so-called "strategic city"? For this atrocious state of higher education, today's rulers have the greatest responsibility, of course, and together with their predecessors, to the chair of government authority. Unfortunately, both the government and the relevant Ministry are mistaken if they consider that by the proposed draft law they will once again deceive the Greek people that they are supposedly acting in the interests of progress, rationalisation and the development of Greek higher education and of Greek education. With the proposed draft law, therefore, the Government and the Minister are attempting urgent legislative intervention to reform higher education, rationalise it and reorganise it, as mentioned above. The draft law relates to the University of Thessaly, the National Kapodistrian University of Athens, the Agricultural University of Athens, the Technological Educational Foundation of Thessaly and the Technical Educational Foundation of Central Greece. In other words, the Government is attempting to merge these technological institutions with these universities. The criteria on which this action is being attempted vary according to the government's micro-political interests, particularly at the time when the long-term election period has already begun. Because, in fact, this is what this is all about, that is, serving party and micro-political interests locally to the satisfaction of existing and unwritten new voters. The aim is voterial and at the same time very clear and concerns students, scientific and educational staff and local economic interests of local economies and by extension of the local electoral base. In order to make this clearer, it is sufficient to read the General Accounting Report on the costs of the legislative initiative, totalling around EUR 10 million, and not to allow the calculation for a number of charges on the State budget, subject to the special provisions and expenses of the proposed regulations, and, as the General Accounting Office says, no data have been provided by the relevant Ministry. To sum up, therefore, one can argue that the drafting, introduction to debate and finally the vote on the proposed draft law is, firstly, dictated by a purpose of micropolitical and inextricably linked to local economic interests and the service of these various local bodies and, secondly, it has a clear target for future students, educational staff and local economic agents in the past government policy, which required a camp and a school in each city. New educational structures and new sections with a thematic and educational subject are therefore being established, as is seen from the communist viewpoint, science and technology. In this context, for example, the operation of English-speaking undergraduate courses at the University of Athens and Thessaly in collaboration with the international university is being introduced. The proposed draft law consists of three parts. It was fifty-two, and now it was sixty-seven. Nowhere in the proposed draft law is there any mention of national education, education and history, of national conscience for the Greek youth, for the Greek nation, for the values and ideals that the educational system of our country must govern at all its levels. There is, however, a clear and repeated reference to terms such as 'economics','social sciences', 'internationalisation', 'arts' in the context of so-called political correctness. In the proposed draft law there is no reference to the more general and overall issues on which it should, for example, be made, for the real abolition of the so-called 'university asylum', the total ban on party factions, which are anti-corruption bodies in higher education, and which makes the universities of asylum criminals and nurseries of party officials. We cannot, of course, forget the bullshit, I would describe, the Minister for a Roman student movement, which had visited him in his office, as well as the actions of all kinds of criminal and terrorist elements that break down these spaces with the tolerance and coverage of the government. As we have said in committee, asylum can only be abolished by the Golden Dawn. And one of the first measures will be the immediate intervention of special police forces, even in committing injuries in all camps. Unfortunately, many ideological rubbish together with everything else are distinguished within the university institutions. It is not proposed with the provisions of the bill under discussion that the historical books should be re-registered for the purpose of national awakening, nor should the establishment of departments and schools with cognitive and educational objects in Greek history and ancient Greeks. Nor, of course, are they included in the proposed provisions for specific examinations for teachers at all levels of education and therefore also in higher and technological levels, in order to ensure their cognitive level, to be evaluated in terms of their work and their national consciousness. There is also a ridiculous article, Article 33, on the establishment of a Committee on Gender Equality. In Greece today, if equality committees are to be set up in the higher education institutions, they should have as the theme not gender equality - that is, it is certain - but the equality of Greeks and Greeks vis-à-vis foreigners, foreigners and foreigners who enjoy more favourable treatment than the Greek state. We are voting against the bill and we denounce the attempt of the Minister of Education to degrade and destroy the future of our country. Also, because I am addressing teachers, we call on them from what position they are to promote and defend the national and patriotic conscience of students and students as owed, especially in days of difficult and dangerous, such as those in which the betrayal of our Macedonia is being attempted. Let us know at last what's going on with this famous schoolbook committee. There are various sounds on the Internet about various doubts about Cyril and Methodium, about Alexander the Great and the Kingdom of Bulgaria. Of course, the Skopje are attempting to pass through the school books. We will not, of course, leave the Greek youth in the hands of stateless and native. We'll always be here to report you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been informed about the history of the building of the way of organizing and operating the House and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ENIZELOS" thirty-nine students and students and three teachers attending from the 13th Kallitheas High School. We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Delis has the floor from the JRC now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill concerning three universities, which absorb two TEIs or cooperate - according to the unsuccessful, in our view, title of the bill - continues to be the catalyst of the restructuring in higher education. It was a project launched for a year, aspiring to succeed where the previous government's "ATHENA" project failed. According to the Government, the unforgettable plan "ATHENA" of the New Democracy, which was not implemented, was simply a victim of its agony for every sacrifice of resources - this is what the explanatory memorandum states - as well as its poor preparation. Of course, in order not to forget, the New Democracy's "ATHENA" project was temporarily blocked by the great student mobilisations, as it turns out, since SYRIZA, who at the time supported these mobilisations, as it turns out, is now reintroducing it with a different wrapping, but with always the same content and especially the same objective. Another proof, in other words, that it continues in a more skilled manner the anti-popular policy of all the previous governments and in higher education, as indeed everywhere. All this bar of restructuring in higher education is carried out with the same known materials on the designs of the European Union and the OECD, with which, of course, SYRIZA and all urban parties are agreed and which were officially reflected in the third memorandum of SYRIZA, which all voted together, so that it would be more binding on them, without that, of course, meaning that a different policy was implemented beforehand. A Train example here is L.3848/2010, also known as Diamantopoulou, a law station for the dismantling of reactionary restructurings in education, which preceded all the memorandums in time. Where are all the above? Only anyone who does not want to see it sees or who wants to hide it is that here are plans and directions that serve before all to better adapt education to the marsh of the profitability of business groups, to the chariot of the more comprehensive pursuits of capital through the objective relationship between education and the economy. And, of course, because this full subjection of higher education to the pursuits of capital for profitable business cannot be concealed, it is forged on the grounds of strong education, so that after overcoming, as the government says, the strangles and passions of the past, it becomes more dynamic, more innovative, more competitive. When you are talking now, Minister, about hooks and pathogens, you do not mean at all, but at all, the cost of study that is increasing for the children of the people's families, nor the student care that is constantly shrinking and downgrading, nor the content of the studies and how this will increasingly link the new scientist to his scientific object. The bill doesn't even deal with all of this, and it just passes it like they don't exist. Nor, of course, is the bill responding to the nightmare of the unemployment of young graduates at the heights, while few graduates are now in work on the subject they have studied and on employment rights, of course, which you have made sure are in balance with your policy. As for whether the degree will be sufficient to find a job, whether it will continue to be necessary for postgraduate, certificates, all kinds of training, or whether research in the research centres of the young university institutions will concern mainly popular needs or whether researchers will have full working and insurance rights, the answer of the bill is purely hostile to students, teachers and workers in higher education, as is, of course, hostile to the popular needs of universities exclusively in their service. However, as hostile to the people's interests, another is both friendly and galantoma to the business groups and the capital in general, which they always demand and now see higher education with the contribution of SYRIZA to operate even more to their benefit. All this now, the anti-Hallian project that we described is being forged as a link between the new university institutions and the development needs of the regions and the country. But this is where it is hidden and the fraud about the common benefit that we all supposedly have from capitalist development, because it is a development that is cut and sewn into the measures of the Greek bourgeoisie for the needs of the groups of Greece, for the needs of the Greek capitalists who are looking for new areas of profitability in very specific sectors and not for that economic development that is centrally planned and operating to meet all the needs of the people. Of course, no one needs to look too hard to prove it. A glance at the marvel of tourism or the French telecommunications will understand the benefit of which these industries are developing today. The next argument by the Government and the other urban parties is called 'convergence of the so-called Single Area of Higher Education and Research'. Attention! This single area has absolutely nothing to do with the single higher education which the JRC is fighting for, and in which single higher education ceases to exist to be multidivided and categorised by institutions, graduates, graduates and graduates, and which forms only one type of diploma per scientific subject of a higher university level. This diploma, in our view, must also be the only requirement for access to the profession and will, of course, be included in it all the scientific knowledge necessary for understanding its scientific object and will therefore lead to the successful, that is to say, the socially beneficial exercise of the profession. We have been listening for so many days here, mainly in committees and, indeed, from university lips to that notorious autism of knowledge, which certainly exists. That argument was made to justify the further disconnection of the diploma from the profession. But higher education is basically a vocational education, because science is not just a selfish one. We are not in general studying to become scientists, but to become workers, to contribute to what Breech so well said, to alleviating the battle of human existence. That's why we're studying. It is precisely from this finding that the modern need for graduates, today’s scientists, to be able to work with their degree in the subject they studied. The so-called 'Single Higher Education Area', according to the Government, the European Union and the OECD, means exactly the opposite. With a terminology of false, misleading, it is a process of Euro-Union origin, which is evolving into a highly competitive process of qualification, since diplomas cease to give access to the profession for graduates. That's why, within this single university space, they accumulate together university classes of alpha, beta and gamma class. Graduates and degrees are well-qualified. Here, then, is how, in addition to the education which we have seen, it becomes a servant of capitalism through its contribution to capitalist development, we see higher education serving business groups directly now by offering them on the plate graduates of graduates of qualified qualifications, namely graduates north of the newspaper interests and the needs of employers, graduates trapped in that on-going hunting of certifications and training and a race of antisocial labour competition. This is what it means and where the multifaceted interconnection of universities and businesses leads. This is where the business function of the institutions leads itself. With this policy, all the urban parties agree, and I think today too. Their disagreements and objections are on secondary issues and concern the methods or rhythms that such restructuring must have in order to better serve the economic and ideological needs of capital. The New Democracy here says that all this restructuring is being introduced by the bill. In our opinion, it is wrong, because the bill of course, and all this effort, is part of the process of adapting university studies to the horizons of business groups. For example, see how great, but how great, is the government’s care in capital investment areas, such as so-called dietary complex, as they say. It forms with this bill four, please, portions of food, nutrition and diet, two in Thessaloniki and two in Athens. Apart from austerity, the government is also interested in our diet. See also how diligent it is to the slightest detail of the operation of the new research institutes and technology parks always privately operated within universities, while indifferently, advisablely, for the actual educational and private problems of students. We're not telling you any more than to take a look at the situation in the dorms. The University of Thessaly actually acquires pharaonic dimensions by absorbing the entire TEI of Thessaly and parts of the TEI of Central Greece in Lamia. The burden now in Thessaly falls on the establishment of schools often heterocats, with blurred scientific objects, so much that they become almost "Frankestein" schools and with the establishment of university centres for research, innovation and development, such as "Jason" in Volos, which emphasises the so-called cultural industry. The burden here in Thessaly falls here in the agri-food sector, which will serve the various institutes in the cities of Thessaly, as well as the Averofiofi Agricultural Technology Park of Thessaly, in order to support not, of course, the tens of thousands of small and medium-sized farmers who are uninhabited by the common agricultural policy of the European Union and the Greek Governments, but to support these institutes for the large livestock enterprises, which are increasingly concentrated, of course, on the care of all Greek governments and the land and agricultural and livestock production. Do you now want a sample so simple, small of the so-called Single Higher Education Area from the University of Thessaly? Listen! At the same university, in Larissa, we will have a Polytechnic School with four-year-old classes, such as Energy and Environment, and at the same University, at Volos next door, we will have a Polytechnic School with five-year-old classes. Here, then, is the single area where there will be many and categorised degrees, sections and graduates in order, as we have said, to ensure that the cheap and qualified labour force, all certified to the qualifications and skills that it requires every time - just in time, as they say - capital. Furthermore, if anyone does not use the tool of the bill's class approach, he may actually wonder what exactly a university department in Evia serves with a scientific object managing ports and shipping. Maybe he's wondering. However, if, as they did, the elected council of Central Greece, with the master plan of the Evia Port Authority - which provides for interventions that change the entire coastal front of the areas and of Chalkidiki and Evia, in order to facilitate the activities of business groups and between them, of course, and the renewable energy sources - will find that interventions such as, for example, the transfer of the port of Chalkidiki directly to the private site of the facilities of the ‘Chemedon Chalkidikis’, its well-known multinational demand, are linked to the two-year operational plan of the Region of Central Greece and will help its investment and profits for combined logistics, as there is, in this respect, a railway line as well as a railway line. Yes, it is the 'Lafarge', the multinational cement industry, which claimed last year or before - remember it - and it succeeded with a decision of the European Court of Justice, which your Government has quickened to say that it will of course be respected, to be able to lay off whenever and when those workers want it. This is a decision - a trick for the government's 'caramella', both for this most famous European acquis and for its own sensitivity to labour, a decision that opened the way to the further anti-government policy. You're doing this bill with her. The same mission is provided by Europe's Technopolis, which is part of the operation of the EMCDDA, for the development of research on behalf of industrialists in the region. Nor, of course, is it accidental that the flexible working relations between teachers and other staff will flourish more in these research centres. The question was raised yesterday: How will they be supported, in any case, if we accept your logic and talk about what you entered, the seven new schools - regardless of whether we disagree or agree - that all thirty-nine new university departments are founded? With what staff? With what funding? Is it the one that has led the institutions to operate to their limits? It is clear that without brave funding nothing can be done. In any case, those who care about the unacceptable situation in higher education - from the point of view of the people's families and the needs - this business function and the commercialisation of higher education, which, of course, is served successively by all the governments, are the ones that need to set the target. That's why the JRC is not just against this bill. It calls, of course, on the fight for the overall overthrow of anti-educational and overall policy. Now, let me just one minute, Madam President - I would like to have the tolerance you have shown to the previous - on the occasion of and condemned, in the awareness of teachers, the most famous new system of recruitment - redundancies, since it is a mixture of the substance of the recycling of unemployment, to tell you that we have been listening to you for so many days. Your argument is not new. The same arguments were heard from PASOK in 1997 when it abolished the yearbook. Same. And what a coincidence! And then there was too much chemicals, as it is now. It seems, however, that both massity and the militarity of mobilisations, all teachers, permanent and contractors, are neither convinced by government propaganda nor, of course, subject to repression. Nothing is going to save this unacceptable system, which ultimately mocks all the unemployed teachers and leads them to break-up, cannibalism, through an eternal moratorium hunt for qualification certification. And you know what? And today, now that we are talking about, they are out of here, from the House, and instead of interacting, as you are seeking with the system that you enter, they are demonstrating together and claiming the immediate simulation of all the contractors of education in recent years, to the minimum that has to be done for the sake of education. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A word about the Palemnian Fund, a historic institution of Lemnos, which you do not leave infinitely, because you generalize and strengthen his business characteristics at the expense of his normal reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Delis, please complete, because then everyone will ask for more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u123	To give an answer to the amendment he tabled a moment ago - at last, we have seen it - for the reduction of pupils in kindergarten and in the first grade, Minister. You know, away from us, micropsy. We'll vote for the order. But let us, Minister, say that it would be more comprehensive if it were accompanied by a reduction in the minimum number of kindergartens, which was at seven and which you did at fourteen. Take it and fourteen to seven. It would have been more complete of your proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u124	What does one have to do with the other?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u125	Because the upper and lower level of pupils in a section is linked. Of course, they're absolutely intimate and you understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u126	Please respect for time. They're sixty speakers. If there is a roll-call vote, let's go for the night. The next speaker is Mr Katsikis from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let me inform the House and at the same time thank you, because after a communication I have had with you, you are accepting the request to increase the molecules in relation to the criteria for an evaluation table of general education in which you are molecules over those who have children, so from two molecules you are increasing to three for each child. Therefore, this is how the population group of tritecs and polytecs is served to increase the chances of intake in the educational sector. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is introduced to follow up the reform policy implemented and signals the ability of the state to provide Greek citizens with a public asset of high quality, with full use and accountability of the resources available to education, as objectivity and merit lead to the instability of the sense of law and credibility to the Greek citizen, professor, student and parent. We must harmonise ourselves with the modern, increased demands of the times, which call for more extroversion of educational institutions and increased possibilities for producing research work, with the aim of awarding academic qualifications known internationally and attracting more young students, even from abroad. It is implemented and promoted by the central architecture that began with the establishment of the University of West Attica and continued with the recent changes, which were legislated in the case of the University of Ioannina and the Ionian University last summer, in order to respond more effectively to the challenges of the future and to interconnect the needs of local society and the economy. In any case, resolving the chronic problems, addressing the malfunctions and treating the weaknesses found in higher education institutions in order to overcome the accumulated deadlocks of the past and to decapitate the new generations of students, is a key pursuit of the present provisions. The Independent Greeks support this project, which is already under way, with regard to the remodeling of the country's educational map, as we believe that the changes that are being introduced are in the right direction. In addition, the proposed provisions do not constitute a unilateral proposal, but are a product of suggestions and findings, set up by committees of academic teachers, namely those directly involved, those who regularly record the needs of the university community on the one hand and those who formulate their policy tomorrow of universities on the other. Furthermore, the consensus that exists for this bill by the Senates of the University of Thessaly and TEI of Central Greece, the Kapodistrian University of Athens and the Agronomic University after a consultation, which was unfolded for a whole year, is the epic of dialogue and democratic processes, which of course have been respected according to the timetable laid down by the Ministry's leadership. It is appropriate to remember that in the past parallel, often unscheduled and clientele, the establishment of departments in universities and the TEI has resulted in the overlapping of cognitive objects and the creation of confusion among graduates. The consequence of this was that hundreds of departments in universities and mainly at TEI did not have professional rights, and in several cases students did not invest as much as they should in knowledge and studies. That was the situation that we were asked to face, and that is why I would say that it would be a good thing if we did not respond to a sterile criticism, without making any substantial proposals. So the draft law puts an end to the perpetuation of this situation and is the starting point for a transitional period for the upgrading of higher education. Direct and long-term solutions are given through the provisions of the fifty-two overall articles of this article in order to overcome the well-known problems relating to the overlapping of common cognitive fields, as well as the problem of subscribing and sub-financing which has affected small-scale and spatially dispersed technological educational institutions for many years. With the new provisions that students have entered and completed their programme, they will, of course, be able to extend their curriculum if they so wish. Educational institutions are now becoming more attractive both to all academics, such as attracting students, students and scientific partners, as well as in terms of developing partnerships with local government, with the chambers and other business operators at local, national and international level. At the same time, the absorption of TEIs from higher education institutions is considered to be complete but also sufficient. It is accompanied by the self-evident transfer and integration of all staff of teachers and students in an academic environment with greater prestige, potential and prospects, and the continuity of all research projects and programmes in force, as well as the management through the specific research funds accounts. The new branches created and the scientific fields of the TEIs that are integrated into these universities (Central, Agronomic and Thessaly) are based on the interconnection of studies with employment and seek to maximise the absorption of graduates from the labour market as far as possible. In this way, it is attempting to stop the uncontrolled fleeing of young people from our country, to stop the brain drain from abroad and to give practical encouragement to young people, in order to develop, diversify and offer their place playing an active role in the country's productive reconstruction. And this, as confessingly to the provision of high-quality education, is an essential prerequisite and at the same time a catalyst for economic development, prosperity and social justice. Schools and institutes which are divided into cities in the region and which now operate with increased prestige, as they can offer a higher level of study, are a development which upgrades all the actions that can be developed on the basis of the interconnection of the local economy with scientific knowledge. In this direction, under the auspices of the University Research Centre of the University of Thessaly, the operation of a series of institutes, such as the Institute for Rural Development and the Institute for Cancer Diagnosis and Treatment, based in Larissa, the Institute for Animal Improvement in Karditsa, the Institute for Cinesiology in Trikala and the Institute for International Education in Amphissa, among others. Ladies and gentlemen, the extroversion of HEIs supported by the proposed regulations is expected to yield remarkable results, as similar efforts have been made at European level too. Through coordinated cooperation between the business community and the new universities, the basis for implementing research results and innovative proposals will be widened in order to increase the competitiveness of enterprises. The benefits are twofold, as there will certainly be a benefit to universities themselves. The conditions for attracting more investment from the private sector to research and innovation will be improved, bridging the gap between science and the market, as new scientific knowledge can be continuously transformed into new products and services. These results are anticipated by the new architecture applied to the academic map of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Mavrotas from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Let me begin with the main subject of the bill, which is the merger of universities and TEI, resulting in the disappearance of TEIs from the academic map. As we have said in the committees, the debate we have never had is if we need the TEI level in higher education. We probably had this debate in the Committee on Morphic Affairs in the summer of 2016, but we had not come up with the result today. And you, Minister, and the finding that had come out, with which then many of us agreed, reached an extended period of time and a university of specific sections after their evaluation. I'm not going to testify to you. We had tabled it in the corresponding debate we had on the association of the University of Ioannina with the Ioannina TEI Epirus. We believe that in the country's productive model, in the production pyramid, there must be technologically well-trained executives, and this by the abolition of TEIs is becoming difficult. We will now have or graduates of universities or graduates of two-year-old structures from the ESDP, these two-year-olds, to play this role. There must be something between the executives of applications. Besides, it says very well that Professor George Mantanis from TEI of Thessaly, at the Furniture Wood Design and Technology Department in Karditsa, one of the TEIs that are essentially merged, in an article in November that refers to all of them entitled: “Why does TEI become universities by law?” And let us say that this transformation has decided that it must be done. But does it have to be with fast track procedures? Even the extremists who came to the hearing of the bodies expressed their strong doubts as to whether the new departments would be ready next September. They wanted to go from September 2020-2021. More I think you're interested in getting into children's computers this year, not if they're really ready to work in eight months. But the elections are going through and you want to catch up. But when the criterion of your decisions is the political, election, vote and not academic, the decisions are not sufficiently worked and distorted. And if there's no interested person near the Minister's ears, then the Karadokun injustices, like the Department of Medical Labs of Thessaly. The Department is abolished with the highest basis for the introduction of Thessaly, the Department of Medical Labs, a department with infrastructure, professional rehabilitation, academic and educational work. On what criteria? It's unknown. And the fact that the dean of the University of Thessaly said they would see the matter at a next congress, shows the curiosity of the project. We're pulling it out, and we're watching. One of the arguments of the merger is that synergies will be created - we have seen it in the explanatory statement written against coron - and economies of scale, which, in our view, is in theory correct. But let us see if it is done. At the University of Thessaly, a new school of technology will be set up in Larissa, while there is already a Polytechnic School in Volos. In this Polytechnic School there is a Department of Civil Engineering, Department of Electrical Engineering, Engineering, and Department of Informatics. At the current TEI of Thessaly there are two Departments of Civil Engineering, one Electricians, one Engineering and one Computer Engineering. However, those who want to upgrade their degree to AEI will go to the School of Technology in Larissa, the Department of Energy or the Department of Environment, or to the computers in the Department of Digital Systems. So they're going no to the subject they studied and there's at the Polytechnic School in Volos, but at something else in Larissa. Why? 'Cause apparently the Polytechnic School vetoed into this osmosis. Are these synergies? Is that how economies of scale ensured or is everyone taking their parallel path? The distribution of the clothes of the Central Greek TEI at three universities, at Kapodistrian, Geoponikos and the University of Thessaly is the definition of academic faculty, scorching with local and collective criteria. I am not going to criticise the object of the sections that are created, enough of which could be just postgraduate programmes at universities, but I will set the conditions for transition. How easy is a Department of Aerospace Technology, which is the one in Evia, to be converted within nine months into a University Department of Aerospace Science and Technology, which will belong to the EMCDDA, in Kapodistrian, which does not even have a multi-technical school? And that's what you're saying it's gonna start to work as early as September. That's why I'm telling you you're in a hurry. You are in a hurry to put impressive titles on the next computer that will, however, have mustards from the inside. However, I believe that this academic allergy would be solved if they entered the criteria for introducing a rating threshold, namely that there should be a rating threshold, even eight (8), if you do not like the basis of ten (10), so that many departments simply parking students who do not study or never finish their studies on them and we simply have them registered to justify their existence. This criterion can also determine the actual capacity of low demand segments. For the university research centres - and the Greek Researchers' Association, which came to the hearing - started an institution that no one is convinced of when there are already the ETFs, the research institutes. The government likes to set up new committees, new institutions and new institutions, regardless of their feasibility, usefulness or sustainability. Here, rather, the university research centres are enslaving the dorms between the university and the research world. I share the view of the researchers, who have heard them in the House at the hearing of the bodies, that this is a parallel research system that strengthens fragmentation rather than strengthen synergies, contributes to internalisation rather than interconnection and is obviously not compatible with the implementation of a single higher education and research area. As regards Article 37 and the micro-regulations for the financial management of research projects, these are not even aspirin. You have turned researchers from bodies that implement, research and new knowledge into accountants and now the natural object of the projects comes to second degree. At first fate, this thorough management passes. We are still waiting, Minister, like Mr. Tsakalotos, for your answer to the relevant question we made at the beginning of May 2018 about bureaucracy, namely, that exists in the PPE of universities and makes life difficult for both staff and researchers. I will close this chapter of mergers with the IP, the decorative principle of quality assurance. And our decorative statement was confirmed by Mrs Paisidou, her chairman, who said that for these mergers, as did the previous ones, they had not been asked. I imagine that if you replace it with the presidency, as you have already announced, with your advisor, Mr Kyprianos, then you will ask it more often. But there is one point here, Minister: will you put your advisor as head of an independent authority, such as the IPO? Is it not a reproach to Mr Kyprianos, but should these authorities not be appointed after an open invitation, that is not to say, the presidents of friends who are in attendance? And because I imagine the excuse, "and the previous ones have done the same," you will tell me, but you were the hope that comes and not the recurring work. Because on these issues, unfortunately, it has been shown that in dictatorialism, in putting our own people everywhere, you have also exceeded the teachers of the previous decades. I also read why I was not present at that time in committee that you are asking the parties to table a project for the establishment of a private university. Among other things, you said to tell you how this is going to be done, to have these departments, to have this investment, to have these diplomas, to have these professional rights. I'm sorry, but is that the role of the parties? To present you with an investment feasibility study? Their role is to define the framework within which stakeholders will move. We have also asked questions which have not been answered by the committees. I'm starting at the Open University. It's the third extension you're giving. What about the organogram? What about the PSC Agency? We raised this issue two years ago and two years later, but it seems not to be too fast. The hostage of the PSC contractors is a convenient state of election. For the Sivitanide School and Article 51, i.e. for the board of Sivitanide, you have brought it back to a previous piece of legislation and withdrawn it. Now you bring it back and the point is why you want to change it. Are there any malfunctions? Let us know. Or do you want to check with six of the eleven members of the board of directors to be appointed by you? And the funny thing is that this paragraph says six members who are members of university LAGs or scientific staff of TEIs or members of public secondary education or public administration including legal persons of public law and of all grades or members of scientific associations and chambers. In other words, they may not have anything to do with technical education, they may simply be friends of the Minister. If you want, set more stringent criteria rather than half of Greece, as shown by this provision. Put the institutions, for example, to be a representative of the TEI. Besides, we're talking about technical training. Then there is the amendment for those who have the option of a second term. And here you did not reply to me, Minister, what changed since August 2017, so the parliament voted for Law 4485/2017, which you yourself recommended and predicted that the dean should not be a candidate and elected for a second consecutive term in the office of the dean. Did the Ministry assess this provision and find out from last year to this year that it is dysfunctional? Or is it a 'incentive' provision in the context of the attempt to persuade the administrations of university institutions for the adoption of TEIs in the context of the merger? Once again, as in the past, we have the case that, instead of adapting to the institutional rules, the institutional rules should be adapted to the needs of the individual government. I shall end with the amendment to the appointments that have now been made articles in the bill. In our view, it wanted more and more effective consultation on such a crucial issue. Perhaps there will also be an ad hoc meeting of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, such as the one you promised us last May, that it will be held on university relocations and that is why we have sent you concrete proposals. It should be a matter of dialogue whether we should go to the model of the single table or follow the well-known practice of the notices of the AACC, which it applies at the same rates as the large majority, the general positions and positions for multi-purpose, for third-texts, for disabled people, but above all, for posts with and without pre-service, because, obviously, the younger graduates will not be able to have any hope of participating in this competition. We believe that there are injustices against those who come from private education and, as you have said, the usual practice should be followed. Also, perhaps at some point we should also consider modulation or pre-service recognition in some way of graduates working in schools. However, we are talking about a certified sealed service so that there is an objective credibility and workers are forced to ask them too. Of course, all the things I told you in the Committee on Morphics at second reading, which I mentioned specifically in this amendment on pre-service in general and special education, for school psychologists, has submitted and a memorandum of amendment from the Association of School Psychologists in Greece, for the first degree in special education in relation to those who have a postgraduate degree, for the writing of Braille and sign language as a formal qualification for the respective schools, for the training seminars in special education, which you say should have four hundred hours and eight months, because the months have been added, and so the program of the KEDIBIM, the Aegean University of Greece, lasting seven months, is excluded. I do not know whether you have taken any of this into consideration or only what you have said at the informal meeting which, as you said, you have had SYRIZA Members. In conclusion, we consider the TEI and Universities to be inconsistent, first and foremost in the context of a electoral policy. We also believe that the bill has a number of arrangements that we do not agree with, which is why we are voting against in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Black. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Health to defend an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u131	It is the ministerial amendment of 1913 and a special 210, proposing the extension for two months of a programme financed by European funds for the health care of migrants and refugees. This is a programme, the so-called 'PHILOS', which was completed a few months ago. The process of a new programme is under way, much larger, both from the point of view of staff, from the point of view of resources and from the point of view of duration. The information we have received is that we have completed the checks on the files and that next week we will have to post the provisional tables, but because the process has taken a little longer, there has been a great deal of involvement, we have considered it necessary to give this transitional period an additional two-month period. It is EUR 1.1 million the cost, which will be covered by the budget of the CEDEFOP through the Ministry's grant. We believe that in mid-March we will have the new programme, 'PHILOS II', which is intended to recruit about a thousand five hundred health workers, who will cover reception and identification centres, the hosting areas of migrants throughout the country, the islands and the continent, and the neighbouring public structures, i.e. hospitals and health centres, which are hosting and caring for refugees and immigrants at this time. We therefore want, in this way, and to ensure reliable health care for these people, but at the same time, to strengthen the structures of the health system in these areas, so that we also strengthen the sense of health protection for local communities, that there is better monitoring, epidemiological surveillance, public health activities, a valid calibration of the vulnerability of people, so that the categories of vulnerable can be promoted quickly and disabling the islands. It is an intervention, therefore, which is very flat and, in our view, will significantly change the landscape of health care for these tens of thousands of refugees and migrants who are still in the country. In the medium term, then, we have two hundred forty workers from the previous programme, one hundred and twenty-four on the islands and sixteen on the mainland, and we are giving the opportunity to assist the Armed Forces, but also staff from the National Health System at this time, to safely cover the needs so that we do not have a gap in care. It is encouraging that the new programme, because it is precisely because we have given enhanced wage incentives, especially for doctors, we have a great deal of response, that is to say we have reception centres, identification centres in the islands and care centres, that is to say, hosting places in the continent from the hundreds of three positions of doctors we have requested, we already have ninety-seven applications. It is very important that this picture is shaped by this programme. So we will go with greater completeness in the next period and meet the needs of decent care for the refugee population, but as I said before, we will strengthen the overall sanitation of areas hosting these populations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Minister. Mr Paulakis, Deputy Minister for Health, has the floor to develop the next amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will support the amendment with a general number of 1914 and a specialist of 211. It is an amendment with two paragraphs. The first paragraph gives an extension of the term of office of supplementary doctors up to 30-11-2019. There is a legislative improvement, which I shall be tabling together, which clarifies something that was unclear from the first wording. It concerns auxiliary doctors who have been recruited through the financing of ESRB programmes. Money found. We can extend the mandate of these people. They're a lot of help in the operation of public hospitals. And because there was a misunderstanding about whether this concerns only doctors who have been hired in this way and who serve Athens, Thessaloniki, and those who have ended their term of office for the delay, it also includes them and are extended up to 30-11-2019. Of course, it will be financed either by a national or a co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme. We are therefore giving an extension to the work of these people who have helped the health system. With the second paragraph, we effectively exclude the application of paragraphs 6 and 7 of Article 14 of Law 2190/1994 to the contract notice for the thousands of people concerned with the problem of auxiliary staff serving for many years in hospitals and health centres in the country. I want to clarify something here. The notice concerned a thousand two hundred people, whereas the subsidiary staff were a thousand hundred people, precisely to provide for the special positions that the Ministry of Labour provides and receives and publishes. Because many of these people have been working five years in the system and they have been given successive extensions, they have been trained, precisely by recognizing that we have made a call for positions, we have recommended the positions where they were not in agencies, because they really are a valuable potential for the system. However, the application of these special categories actually brings out of the thousands of people the tranquil eighty a priori outside the competitive process. That is the problem, and that is what we are doing today. Even so, it does not make it generally and without vaguely. He takes it out because the algorithm selects locations of special categories, not from a health center that a person can serve, but from a large hospital that may serve seven or eight people. That's where he gets all the special charges. So all those who served there today are excluded from the competitive process. It is a similar logic to the one used for the 'Help at Home' programme, which exempted the applications of these special categories, precisely by recognising the work and experience of people who have been working for many years in these programmes. So that's right, we're doing it here. It's not certain people will take their seats. We have mobilized them above, but there is actually a serious social problem, and so on, in the sense that you were practically excluding them directly. The multitexts and the third parties have the molecules to take, they take them. They're just not seats for them. That's the story. This is for the second paragraph. I would also like to mention the legislative approach which clarifys the point in the first paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u134	Minister, does the amendment involve auxiliary staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u135	Don't have a dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u136	It's nursing, paramedical, administrative, it's all the charges.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u137	Now you filed it? Is this a second part of the second amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u138	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u139	It has two articles and it's a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u140	The first sentence of the first paragraph is re-drafted, firstly, because it goes up to 30-11-2019 and secondly, with the wording that we have now included doctors throughout the country and not just Athens and Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Cavadellas has the floor for 15 minutes and I tell you that with Mr. Cavadella the circle of the rapporteurs is closed. Because speakers are many, because it is the parliamentary representatives who are, the ministers, and so on. and because more than one motion for a roll-call vote will be tabled, you understand that the time has to be strictly respected. There will be no leniency, the previous speaker spoke and the next one, so that perhaps we can move on at midnight. Here you go, Mr. Cavaldela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are in the last year of the present government and I feel insecure about where the country is driving, with responsibility, of course, for many parties, and I say this with great regret, because things show that instead of becoming milder, wiser, understanding the difficulties of the country, we become exemplary, both political and human. I am also referring, of course, to the events of the last two days. I am, of course, pleased that the first bill of 2019 relates to issues of education, and this is likely to show some of the government's live concern for education, in other words, the indifference to promote a bill that raises issues that are afflicting our many disciplines for years and that you have left it for the past year at the last minute. I'll say it's never too late. I'll wish the best. I will not accept either. It is a bill, of course, that has positive things. For example, we have a positive position on the Aberofios Agricultural Nutritional Technology Park of Thessaly, but there are other issues that create legitimate concerns in the Union. The consolation - and I must point out - is that we see a real interest in the Minister of State, Mr Gavroglou, who attended the committees from the first to the last minute and is present and now that we are discussing the bill, thus showing a real interest in the issues of his competence, in the issues of education, what he is handling. And I say this because we are not used to the ministers attending either their bills or the committees for a long time. I was expecting a creative place in a education bill. Instead, I noticed a micropolitical attitude to the seriousness of this bill, with meaningless, perhaps questions to us, but perhaps interesting to them. We consider it to be a matter of impression, not of substance, if the first or second resignations were resigned. We were expecting one serious and responsible manipulation, but we were disappointed once again. Now, to get to the main point, it would be a good thing not only for this bill, but for all the bills coming, to have the approval of the bodies or their consent or their tolerance to the minimum. Here we noted that the society of TEI Larissa and Thessaly, whose dean would accept it on terms. We also had a reaction from a resolution from the Larissa City Council. It is worrying that there should also be other sawmills with which there should be strong consultations, especially when they mention depreciation of the TEI, as the dean of the Central Greece TEI Mr. Lampshas stressed. I would agree with you, Minister, that higher institutions generally offer education, but do not guarantee a professional restoration. Today, however, the sustainability of the departments is also affected because of comparisons that will result from the coexistence of two similar schools with four years each and five years each in the same region, and that makes things more alarming. What is the purpose of these differences in the same schools of the same value? The New Democracy pretends to be being cut off for Brain Drain, that it is allegedly concerned about our youth, that it is concerned about the inability to find work. It must not forget, however, that she is also responsible for the present situation, as does PASOK. They are parties that are presently representing the settlers and shaking the finger, concerned about our youth. However, from their handling and from the bad governance of these parties, we have arrived here today. And to keep them from forgetting, the Brain Drain began over their days. It has, of course, increased today because of the failure of the coup d'état to provide solutions and the treatments it promised, giving abundant hope to the Greek citizens who unfortunately were unable to satisfy. The proposal by Mr Mitsotakis and his intention to abolish asylum shows his inability to understand the problem and as a wise governor, who should be, to give treatment and solutions. No one is satisfied with the lawlessness and the sad image of university institutions, higher institutions and higher institutions in our country, from the abuse of asylum. Instead of protecting the asylum of ideas, the asylum of free speech, the asylum of research, it found an easy solution to abolish the asylum, as the New Democracy had previously found the easy solution and closed down the ERT. Not that the ERT, of course, offers information at this moment, not at all. And I think it's in one of the worst times of ERT. I'm not saying it in a pretext, I'm really saying it. I regret to say, but it is good that ERT stops the briefing, engages only in entertainment. Maybe he can do better. For example, I am four years here, a Member, I have spoken more than two times in the House - in this Chamber and in the committees - and have not felt the obligation to invite me, to invite a Member of the Greek Parliament, as if the ERT were a shop and to invite anyone who likes it. So they didn't feel me to be summoned, a Member who has spoken so many times, for five minutes too, to say his opinion, to say something. They're all the same and they're calling themselves. Are they close? They're getting packets? I can't say. In any case, as they must, they must listen to all Members and present them. So Mr. Mitsotakis hurts head, cuts head. He wants to abolish the asylum. It is not appropriate for a politician who deals with this new attitude. The Centro Association recognises the enormous problem of education, and this is in the super-culturalisation and tolerance of our Republic in illegal activities, in the fragmentation of some people to use the university asylum offered by democratic logic, which democratic values offer, in order to commit crimes and destroy what they find and ultimately reduce the value of our universities' diplomas and, of course, reduce the education of young people. You in New Democracy remember your intention to lead out of universities some who were late to learn lessons. They're probably offended people. However, they may have also been those who did not have the economic ability to study comfortably and perhaps spent more time in their own or family survival. But that doesn't make them black sheep. And that doesn't give you the right to deprive them of education. Today we are under the threat of private higher schools, and I say a threat, because at the moment public education is devoid of what I have said and of other things that I do not have time to analyse. What does that mean? It means that private education will absorb all the good it has left in public education, thus depreciating it more, as was the case with private television that absorbed the best executives, drawing the potential from state ERT. And I say state, because it's state, like I said before. It was, it is, and we hope it will once become public. As I said before, we are seeing positive points, but I will now speak about some negative points, because that is our duty as an Opposition. There, of course, is also our concern. Many graduates from the Medical Labs Department contacted me, as well as students from the school and told me their intense concern - and those who already have a degree and those on the way - about the value of their studies, about the possible devaluation of their degree. When a school closes, the whole is doubtful. It's like the cars that come the new model and the old one is completely deceived. Once the new model comes out, the other one falls to half the price. In Lamia, they will operate at the same time, except for the departments of the University of Thessaly and parts of the Agricultural University of Athens. Europe and we personally are against closed professions and the appointing amendment abolishes the AACC. Appointments shall now be made on the basis of yearbooks. And you, of course, justified it in answer to us that it is like pharmacy, but pharmacies are now a closed profession. This is not the vision of a competitive Europe. In addition, appointing by the yearbook, the beneficial measure in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, which certainly do not have the same chance of survival and career as their excellent colleagues, is abolished. There are too many people who have social molecules. Our view is that these people will now be wronged on the basis of the amendment. Finally, I would like to say that we are obliged to say 'the present' for both the bill and, of course, for the amendments, because there are last-minute amendments. We do not have time to look at them - and when I say 'we', I mean all my colleagues - how much more than to vote for them or to vote against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr Cavadela. Before we can list the speakers, I will give the floor to the Minister of Education. Here, Mr. Gavroglou, you have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to be in my time. I would like to mention a number of points in the bill. I will try to respond to some of the remarks made by the opposition parties. I'm not going to answer most of them now, but I'm going to do it in my dentistry. But what I would like to see clear from the outset is this: the Civic Opposition must be mainly, but not just that, when it says very easily that all this is done for party reasons, for customer reasons and so forth, it must have an elementary logic of cohesion. How can you say you're doing all this for party reasons and at the same time saying that everyone disagrees with what you're doing? I mean, so foolish, Mr. Kelles, we can't be. Isn't that right? You cannot say that everyone disagrees and at the same time say that we are doing this for customer reasons. For this reason, the Civic Opposition - and not just - and many parties in the House have a structural weakness. The structural weakness is to understand a different political culture, a political culture which is relevant to the conciliation procedures and to academic criteria. Because no matter how much the JRC tries to say it is the continuation of Athens, what to do? Well, it's not. The stones know that, too. It will sometimes say the JRC, assuming that repetition is a criterion of truth. I would, however, like to discuss the most serious issues that we have been discussing over the last two years. And in the last two years, do you know what we've been talking about and unfortunately, many political forces in this place are absent from this debate? We are discussing the future of higher education in our country, the future of higher education in a changing society, in a changing Europe. And we're talking about it with the world, we're talking about it, we're talking about it with the academics, we're talking about it with the senators, we're talking about it with people who know it, we're talking about it with the local government, not about the way the conversations were made so far, that various local players have had some acquaintances at the ministries and they're called "found me and a section here, found me and a section there" and we have the mess we have today. We are discussing this with local government and we welcome that. And local government reports its own needs and we are trying to translate them into higher education. And we are discussing this in the context of the new institutions. In August 2017, we passed an emblematic law, the one we call the framework law for universities. We are creating new institutions for the first time. We are creating the two-year curriculum which will provide professional certificates of European qualifications. And some come and have the nerve and say that we're removing technological education. We discussed this in the context of a rationalised postgraduate system. That's what we did. You said it wouldn't work the postgraduate, it wouldn't work one, it wouldn't work the other. Everything works a year later. Shouldn't you go out and say, "Okay, are we out?" We all fall out. But that's not it. And there's no such thing, because it doesn't make sense to our approach, the way we're trying to build consents. Everything else is details. Everything else is the old system. What does it mean to make consents? One thing: we know where we agree, we know where we disagree, but we agree on the first step. That's what we did. And that's the biggest threat to the old political system. We are, therefore, proud that the senators and the prefectures are here and say - because that is what everyone said, and thankfully it is recorded - that we agree, first and foremost, and we have a number of comments. What did you want? How would you like a society to come to an agreement? "Do we agree on everything and applaud" or "Do we disagree on everything?" That's not how things work. So we say: have we managed to get these consents? Consents on a framework, consensus on the first step and consensus, too, that there are differences. This is a much more complex political culture. But we are asking you to open your ears, because this culture will take us before democracy and not models, obsessed, to find the same decision of the municipal council that disagrees or does not disagree and goes by saying. You know, we now have a completely new architecture in our universities. And it is very interesting that one thing that has not been achieved for thirty years is now being achieved. What's that? What people talk to each other. Have you been any time by the mind that the TEIs never agreed with the universities and now they're sitting on the same table and agree and go below? These are things that are done easily and without tensions, etc.Huh? Alas! However, they are composed, because there are today proposals which are very different from the original proposals made by the committees. And alas, if that thing wasn't like that. We say, therefore, that in the new context, in a context of upgraded higher education, with new institutions, with new research centres, with new research institutes, new sections and new cognitive fields, with cognitive fields that are the result of TEI synergies with universities, we have a new architecture and a new architecture of our universities, which is reflected in this new reality of Europe. Do we want these, yes or no? That is the big question. And here I would like to welcome the genuinely creative debate at our meetings with the prefects and the senators and academic bodies, where there have often been differences which have led to agreements, and often there have been agreements that have shown differences. Because that is the democratic debate. There are no others, there are no secret agendas, there are no presidential decrees. There is a democratically open debate, on purely academic terms. And I challenge you last time, and now for this: tell me which terms are not academic and are customer terms. Because saying it's a clientele, it's easy. Analysing academic terms is difficult. Unless you don't understand them, because there's this suspicion that you don't understand the project. All right, what do we do? If you don't understand, you don't understand. But you should know that this is the first time in such serious terms and the academic community recognizes it. Remember that last year, when we had legislated the University of West Attica, you said: "But why did this happen? Customer one, the other...’ Same fairy tale, you were just changing the words. The university started to work. It started operating an unprecedented project, for which we all had our discomfort. We didn't hear self-criticism. There were synergies between the Ionian University and the Ionian Islands TEI. And that's where we heard the same thing. University of Ioannina - TEI of Epirus. And that's where we heard the same thing. And yet, things are going well. No hardships? No, not with difficulty, because these are things that are now happening and things that will be analysed by colleagues there and move on. Today, then, we take the corresponding step, in our view, a historic step, where three institutions, the University of Thessaly, the University of Athens and the Agronomic University of Athens, each of them in its areas. Mrs Anagnastopoulou referred to this. I don't want to take more time to say the same thing. However, you should know that in our university things, these are sectoral. The University of Athens, the oldest university in our country, and therefore an institution by definition conservative - over an eighty-eight years - is doing an overcoming. It makes the Annex Evros, an extremely interesting academic project, and the Technology Park there, the University of Thessaly along with the TEI of Thessaly and the TEI of Centrals. We will proceed to experimental schools, as we have said. But that's what I'm going to say in detail later on. We will move on to the institutes, which we are legislating on. All that's in the law. Of course, because you think that with scams we are going to do things, say and commit ourselves publicly from the Step of the House for the following: At Thessaly University for 2019, sixty-five new positions will be given. The University of Athens will receive fifty-three places and twenty-five new posts will be provided for the Agronomic University.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u145	Minister, explain what LPD means. The whole world doesn't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u146	Mrs. Bagena, it's the teaching and research staff. I mean, they're teachers' seats. These are commitments. We did the same in Janna and in the Ionian, when the law was passed. Each university will get an additional 600,000 euros to explore and use them in the consolidation processes of the NSRF. We also know that last year we had increased, dramatically, the funding of universities. We increased it by 45%. I want the rest of my time to devote him to the issues of the appointment of teachers and we will have the opportunity to answer very specific questions. In fact, we also have various amendments tabled by various Members, to whom I shall refer in the end. The draft law, which we are debating today, also includes the system of appointment of teachers. The education system is the nomination system of fifteen thousand teachers which, for the first time, has been committed by our Government for ten years. It is committed to four and a half thousand recruitments in 2019, five thousand two hundred fifty in 2020 and five thousand two hundred fifty in 2021. This is unnecessarily unnecessarily. Therefore, after so many years and for the first time we have been making permanent appointments to special education. That is one thing that we must welcome socially. Misery in dealing with this problem means a political dead end to those who show this misery. And can I tell you something? There's a biology insane about redundancies, and so on. Apart from not understanding how, when you say 'I will appoint', the other accuses you of being fired - that it is also a little difficult for me to understand - to state for the native time that the sum of the newly appointed permanents, together with the alternates we will hire, will be the same as the one they are today. So I don't understand exactly what the problem is. The second thing I want to say - and now I will be a little harder - is that we expect about a hundred and fifty thousand candidates, of whom thirty-five thousand have some kind of pre-service, from one month to fifteen years. The hundred and fifty thousand now - and with a great risk of misunderstanding - could be very thick, very macroscopic, divided into the following groups. Some may have many pre-services and fewer academic criteria, some may have middle-level pre-service and middle-educational qualifications and some may not have any pre-service and many academic qualifications. There may be all possible combinations. However, to know that the 50 000 are a differentiated set of fellow citizens - not to think that these people are from elsewhere - with several pre-services but also academic criteria. What have we done now to deal with this extremely complex problem? Because now there's a law. Do you know what the law says? It's Law 3848/2010. This law says that there should be written examinations, that academic criteria should be modulated and, at the end, that pre-service modulated. That's what the law says. We, first of all, say that there will be no written competition, not because we are going to do a favor in a world, but because we believe that scientific and pedagogic plays no role a competition should play for teachers. A teacher who has a pre-service during a three-hour examination can not play his future and cancel the possibility that he has matured through pre-service or fought to have academic qualifications or anything else. So, for us, pre-service, along with academic criteria, together with academic qualifications, compensates for the theoretical - at least - offered by the written competition. We therefore say, first of all, 'no' to the written competition. Secondly, we have to propose a fair system. The fair system means that every social category must think that there is some thought on how it will be able to see its own future. So there are two things here. And I call on the JRC and you all to say whether or not they accept it. Do we accept the country's constitution, yes or no? Do we accept the decisions of the Council of State? Because this is where we are almost losing our minds. Because the Constitution of the country happens to speak of dignity, equal access to the profession for citizens. Anyone who will tell you that for teachers - teachers are a skilled staff - they have a social function - the service must be balanced with academic criteria. That's what he'll tell you. Is there a decision by the Council of State? Oh, no. Is there an interpretation of the Constitution? Yeah. Is that a fair interpretation? The answer is also 'yes'. So what did we do? While the whole world, along with the trade unions, said to us, "Don't fall under the eighty-four months of roof in the pre-service", we went to the hundred and twenty. There hasn't been this anywhere else. We've come up with it and it's perfectly legitimate. A hundred and twenty months is twelve years of pre-service for someone who has it, because it is ten months for the deputies. So don't let anyone say we've been stealing for months. To God!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u147	It's nine months' pre-service.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u148	So it's not twelve, you mean. She's even bigger. It's thirteen years and half.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u149	More than that, because it's six months old.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u150	It doesn't matter. But you understand the philosophy of the approach. But surely the maximum has not been. I think it was for the Santorini hospital that was a hundred and nine months old. There was nothing more than that. So what all the laws tell us, but also a sense of law, is that the service must be equivalent to academic criteria. So we have three pillars. One pillar is pre-service, the other is academic criteria and the third is social. You know, there is unfortunately a resistance on the part of the federations to discuss this, because in general and in vague terms we cannot discuss it. So since we have taken this proposal up in consultation and received a lot of comments, we have heard many of them, we are announcing the molecules that we are proposing to be discussed in our Parliament. They're academic qualifications. The doctorate will count forty (40) units, the first postgraduate will count twenty (20) units, the second postgraduate will count eight (8) units, the second degree will count seven (7). The degree of the first degree will be multiplied by 2,5 and, therefore, the maximum will be twenty-five (25), as opposed to the twenty (20) which was in what we announced. So we have a 25% increase. For each language the perfect one will be in seven (7). Let's go to two foreign languages. Computer manipulation is four (4) units and two (2) units are which are three hundred-hour seminars, etc. In a few minutes it will be posted by the Press Office of the Ministry of Education on the site and it will be possible to see it more thoroughly. What we are also going on and very important is this: After exceptional cooperation with the National Federation of LEAs, we go not to 67%, but start from 50%. The moleculosis for our fellow citizens is achieved by an disability of 50% or more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u151	Minister, may I ask for clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u152	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u153	Is each seminar two units or two in total?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u154	Three hundred hours. Not every seminar. Can't do every seminar...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u155	Only one counts. They don't count the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u156	Let's see. Well, you say that. Look, it's very important in the matter of MEDIs. On the issue of MEDAs so far, it was only 67%. Now it's from 50%. We multiply each percentage point with a factor. That factor is 0.4. It is a fair moleculosis, which will also ensure that our fellow citizens are present in the educational world. But it is very important to say that we are also mobilizing parents who have children. So on the social criteria we think we have a very good and fair solution. I am presenting the relevant document on the Minutes and soon, as I have said, it will be posted on the site. [[At this point, Minister Constantine Gavroglou submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It is obvious that there are many objections. As I told you, there are hundreds of fifty thousand candidates, parties, organisations, etc. What I want to make clear is this: are there objections from some who say that we are asking for many academic qualifications or am I wrong? Since when should the state not ask the teachers to ask for an academic? Since when? You say the master is an endless card hunt. I don't know if you know the master gives it to the Greek public universities. Do not blame these universities, because the degree is not exactly "knock on the door and enter the university". Isn't that right? It is also this through a process that we disagree, we will change it, and so on. However, the degree has its own role, the graduates have their own role, the doctors have their own role. Let us not undermine them, let us not humiliate them, and above all we do not create any impression that there is money in all of them, and so on, because that is what you imply and this undermines the public university. We fought for these things. And now, in an incredible climate of populism, you come and say what you're saying. But can I tell you something? When you have a great pre-service, there is no way - even with a single degree and no language and no child - you can't be appointed. But there is one issue in the middle services. There's another world there. What are we gonna tell them? What exactly are we going to say in this world? "Do you no longer?"? "Never"? Are we going to say what the JRC says, 'Twenty-five thousand appointments now'? But are you serious? Are you serious? Twenty-five thousand assignments now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u157	Of course we're serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u158	Excuse me for the question, it wasn't a question of underestimating. You know, I, while I thought I could watch you, lately, I can't follow you. And I will tell you why: you are not saying 'two thousand now'. You say something else. You think the bill should be withdrawn. That's what you're saying! Withdrawal of the bill says Mr. Mitsotakis. For the day before yesterday man, to my great pleasure I confess, without any communication to say to him, "Help us, my man," he says: "We are not going to make appointments. We will see what needs are there, when..." - etc. - "...and we'll see what we're going to do." This is all about staying in the same regime. We need to know what we're talking about. This concerns the status of Law 3848 and has the time. It is therefore a request for withdrawal, an unrealistic request, a request which seems very reasonable like Mr Mitsotakis, who says, 'But to see the needs'. Excuse me, are we making the suggestions without seeing the needs?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u159	You're electorally doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u160	Listen, Mrs. Anthony...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u161	Four years you haven't done it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u162	Come on, now, Mr. Anthony!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u163	Listen, Mrs. Anthony...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u164	Who are you kidding now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u165	Mrs. Antoniou, listen!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u166	You're only feeding!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u167	Anyway, you don't want to hear one. You don't want to hear, don't listen. The deputy professors we hire them every year, we hire them, right, out of charity?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u168	Vote!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u169	Votes for them, too? So tell me! Get out and say we shouldn't hire surrogates.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u170	Four years why didn't you make appointments?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u171	Come on, Mrs. Anthony. If you want, take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u172	Minister, we did not say not to take the alternates, nor did Mr Mitsotakis say no appointments were made. Don't paraphrase what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u173	There are appointments, you like it, you don't like it. Appointments and pain are made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u174	When? Next year!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u175	Minister, you'll only have five minutes left for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u176	You're right. But if they let me finish...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u177	All right, don't interrupt the Minister. Stand up and say your great ideas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u178	After half an hour, are you saying we're interrupting him?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u179	I will say it again: have we declared fifteen thousand appointments? Yes or no? Yeah. Have EUR 4.5 million been entered in the budget for this year? Yeah. Are we going through the law? Yeah. Needs are determined by the deputies, which we've been appointed for so many years? Yeah. Will the sum of the permanent and alternates of the future be the same? Is it true, yes or no? It's true. So we know the needs, because they are the needs that force us to do the recruitment of the deputys, etc. So what Mr Mitsotakis says is, "Children, forget about them." And he's very consistent. He's very consistent! Wasn't it Mr. Mitsotakis who fired two and a half thousand teachers, whom we hired? Was it someone else?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u180	Who are you talking about? With the fake degrees?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u181	They had fake degrees? It is interesting - to record in the Minutes - that Mr Tsiaras says the fired teachers, the two and a half thousand, had fake degrees. Is that it, Mr. Chiara? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u182	Is that what you heard from me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u183	Please! Even I'm very calm, I have...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u184	Minister, don't misinterpret what I'm saying. You're wrong here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u185	You told me about fake degrees. Did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u186	That's what you said, Mr. Chiara. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u187	That is why we say he wants a great deal of attention, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC. It would like to see a great deal of attention being paid to ensuring that any dissident will not go hand in hand with a catastrophic attitude - to education - to the mood of the New Democracy. And I wanted to say something at first, but Mr. Delis wasn't here. I am really glad that he is with us, because Mr Delis has been attacked by some men of MAT, whom we condemned as government. I am very pleased that my colleague from the JRC is with us and has, at least in part, exceeded this adventure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u188	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Delis, there's no procedure to give you the floor. He didn't talk personally about you. Talk about your party. If we cannot speak politically without anyone wanting to speak, then it makes no sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u190	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u191	If you know, why do you ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u192	I am aware of that and, frankly, I am not asking for the floor on staff. I ask the floor to ask the Minister a question. I think the Minister has no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u193	Wait, Mr. Delis. It will also be possible for the Minister to make a number of comments on the Members' amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u194	I shall refer to some of the Members' amendments. The amendment under general number 1899 and a special 196 cannot be accepted. The amendment with a general number of 1901 and a special 198 cannot be accepted. The amendment with a general number of 1902 and a special number of 199 cannot be accepted. The amendment with a general number of 1903 and a specialist of 200 is not acceptable. The amendment with a general number of 1904 and a special number of 201 is not accepted and the amendment with a general number of 1905 and a special number of 202 is not accepted. Amendments Nos 1907 and 204, as well as the general number 1908 and specific number 205, are also not accepted. The amendment under the general number 1909 and Mrs Katsavria's specialist, etc., is accepted. and the amendment with a general number of 1911 and a specialist of 208 by Mrs Dritsel, Mr Papadopoulos and Mr Simorellis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u195	What's that about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u196	The amendment to the general number 1915 and Mr Kostopanagiotou's specialist, is also accepted. In addition, the amendment with a general number of 1916 and a specialist of 213 by Mr Papaleou is accepted. It is about the possibility of granting the building and the facilities of the School of Mauritania to Arcadia. Amendment No 1917 is accepted and Amendment No 214 is concerned with nutritional treatment. The amendment with a general number of 1918 and a special number 215, tabled by Mr Sevastakis, is also accepted. It was my fault that we did not include the students of the Ioannina PSP, which Mrs Jufi observed. The amendment under the general number 1917 and the specific number 216 by Mr Mitafidis is also accepted. The Ministerial Amendment No 1912 developed by Mr Army, Amendment No 1913, and Amendment No 210 by Mr Xanthos and Amendment No 1914 is accepted by the Ministerial Amendments. It's the one Mr. Paulakis developed. It was the other one that I had previously tabled with the General Secretariat of Religious Affairs, as well as the one I had tabled, which involved the permanentisation of those who had been entitled to the 2008 SAR, namely the amendment with a general number of 1921 and a special number of 218. There is also the amendment with a general number of 1923 and a specific number of 220. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u197	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Delia, why are you embarrassing me? Is that possible? What's that? Do you have any staff? What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u199	I could ask, Madam President, for the floor on personal grounds, because there have been a number of serious speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u200	For you personally? You have a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u201	He said we're not serious, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u202	Will you comment on me how I run?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u203	The Minister says that we are not serious, Madam President. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u204	Really? And why are you here then? To defend yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u205	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u206	I am not giving you the floor, Mr Delis, because I see that you have lawyers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u207	Good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u208	Thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u209	Republic...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u210	If we can't even talk politically here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u211	But you're not allowed to talk. Is it a political expression 'you are not serious'?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u212	The ministers, sir, not me. If you can't politically criticize each other...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u213	Is it a political expression 'you are not serious'? I ask you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u214	He said it was rhetorical. Here, Mr. Michalis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u215	I think that an interesting methodological question for each debate and for each bill is this: What a problem we are trying to solve and what possible problems they may encounter. Let us look specifically at the issues raised by this bill. A theory or action? Science or technology? In this crucial ideological question, there are two considerations. Traditionally, the Right wanted the absolute separation of theory - science on the one hand and training on the other. That's why he's been supporting our last decades in high school strict exams from high school, strict high school exams, strict high school exams, so that the good guys can go to the rest of the work force as well. The left who first put the question of practice in school and the positive sciences at the time of antiquity, but of dubious antiquity, insisted on the combination, the common coexistence of theory and practice through the single multidisciplinary high schools of the 1980s - indeed expensive schools that the Greek state could not expand and continue with them - and through the unified conception of these two directions. Why? Firstly, because they will have a theory and act mutually - that is the scientific issue - and, secondly, because they will not share students, students, with two social groups in advance. Ladies and gentlemen, in the sociology of education it is absolutely certain that, at the lower level of education, you are making this separation, the more classic it ends up being education. Secondly, education and development, education and the market. The Right traditionally and in recent years insists on the absolute, one-dimensional connection between education and the market. This is why it insists on private colleges, private universities financed by large companies - bodies which channel their graduates. This is something that is also happening in our country, which is something that is happening throughout Europe. Our view is that, obviously, education should see the market. But if it is fully linked to it, then I put the simple theoretical question: in our country what kind of market do we have and why should we have sociologists, economists and so on? Since we're all unsolved by others. We have to move towards the rural tourism sector and nowhere else. But that's not the way it is. In a market that has continuous changes, should science give serious supplies to all, should it be linked to the market, see its needs, but what we say is education, autism, actually what is beyond general education? It is enrichment of young people with qualifications in another amended market so that they can find work. As regards appointments, I was covered by the Minister with the information because I wanted to mention them. There is one objective, I dare say rather unresolved problem: If there is still the idea today that so-called teaching schools from tradition lead exclusively to a public appointment, it leads to the deadlock of how we will appoint the hundreds and fifty thousand who will seek to join the permanent appointments in a public school, which is gradually decreasing to a number of pupils. I want to refer to one element. The two and a half thousand redundancies in the service, Mr. Mitsotakis, were not made because some had fake degrees. If anyone really did have them, that's fine. They were because at the time certain areas were removed in vocational education and after they had been abolished, the need for the respective teachers who were teaching there was missing, when the then Minister Arvanitopoulos was inaugurating private IEK in Piraeus who was founded for these schools. So to speak clearly with who each is. The criteria for appointment should thus be balanced in order to avoid so-called social automation as an absolute priority. A team, their pre-services. A second group, scientifically qualified, a third group of small and medium-sized enterprises. A quarter of a fifth group, the Minister said so. At all costs, the Left must avoid social automation, and that is why it must be balanced. And I have a feeling they're balanced. Let me take another lead and close. The three issues I have raised I think are being dealt with in a positive way with this draft law. What I would like to point out is that the three universities that will act in Central Greece, a single region, must make maximum use of Article 34 of their synergy in order to gain a single regional awareness in the area of Central Greece. And I'm closing up with this. The situation of Lamia, as the capital of this region, is improved by this bill, but it does not correspond to the burden that a regional seat should have. I hope that, with the establishment of the pilot project that the Minister has said and the operation of the two-year curricula within these universities, we will be able to improve this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u216	Thank you. Finally, Mr Kourakis, Mr Tsiaras does not agree to give you the floor. Mr. Chiara, he was going to take office. We're not doing this for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u217	But when the Minister speaks thirty-five minutes, you realize that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u218	You're allowed, Mr. Chiara. He only has five minutes left. That is why I said it has the following times: eighteen, nine, five and three minutes. He almost finished his whole year. I didn't do anything. It is counted and marked next door. Mr. Kourakis of SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Before going to the main theme, I would also like to express my support for Mr Yiannis Delis, a member of the JRC, who was injured during the police operation. Obviously we are all awaiting the results of the investigation ordered by the relevant Minister. However, since there is an educational rally today, I would say that the best apologies that Mr Delis can get to a place is not to see absolutely today, but absolutely - at the next rally, of course - no abuse on the part of the repression forces. Regarding the bill, I would say that after 11 years of adoration in education, with over thirty thousand school leaves, the Ministry is coming to legislate on permanent appointments of fifteen thousand teachers in three years. Here we have a real issue about Mr Mitsotakis, and I wonder why demonstrators and other teachers who are opposed to the way in which they were appointed and in this bill are not mentioned at all by Mr Mitsotakis, who is not committed to appointments to education. And indeed, to his credit, he made his party's positions clearer on the question of the appointment of teachers, saying: "Education needs support, but I am not prepared to commit to any number of recruitments if I do not first study the data in detail and see how many real gaps there are. Recruitment in the air just to send a "philolic" message I am not going to proclaim. Below in the same statement it speaks of an invitation to tender at the AACC and says: 'Recruitment without invitations will not be made by the next Government of New Democracy'. Here - the Minister said so - the issue of AACC and post-graduate examinations is a process which degrades the degree and indeed other academic qualifications that may have been acquired during this period. You understand that in a two-three-hour process pre-service and other academic qualifications are eliminated. It's not fair. It's not right. It's not educationally right. That is why we are not using the question of examinations at all, that is, after the competition in the AACC. In relation to Mr Mitsotakis again, teachers and two and a half thousand educational technology institutions must be remembered overnight. Our government had to come back to reinstate them, reinstate the status quo on the business path and mainly upgrade it. With regard to those fellow teachers who are complaining about the way we are introducing, that is to say, a hundred and twenty molecules in the pre-service and a hundred and twenty molecules in the academic criteria and, of course, in social terms, I would like to say that we are also obliged by the Constitution and by the decisions of the Council of State to go to this system. Apart from that, I think it's fair. It is just because it gives fellow deputies who have returned all over Greece to a large proportion, i.e. for about thirteen and fourteen years, the possibility of acknowledging this service, but of course you cannot ignore academic qualifications if they are better teachers. Let me remind those who do not know that in Finland's educational system, which we are all talking about many times, but all teachers, a prerequisite for their appointment, are to have a postgraduate qualification. Regarding the New Architecture, the second major point introduced by this bill, to remind the very sad period of the "ATHENA" project, where there were arbitrary abolitions and mergers of departments, we had compulsory student movements, became compulsory availability of academic administrative staff. In other words, we had a very big return to higher education. Our government took the extremely bold initiative to upgrade the TEI through synergy with the universities, with the establishment of new departments, with the abolition of divisions, which were covered by other departments and to set up sections of two-year vocational training centres, as the Minister said a moment ago. I would say that this upgrade and, indeed, the flooding of research centres, which operate with a horizontal stratification, as our rapporteur, Mrs Anagnastopoulou, said, is an extremely important cut. I shall refer to a number of issues, Mr Minister. I shall table an amendment concerning the Ministry of Health. Too bad the health ministers aren't here. It concerns doctors who are involved in private law at the Papageorgiou Hospital in terms of retrospectives which, of course, are given to the doctors of the ESS. But he understands that in this hospital he serves two-speed doctors and it is extremely unfair and incomprehensible that some doctors are given retrospectives and some are not. In this amendment, therefore, the words ‘and all doctors at the General Hospital of Papageorgiou’ are added. I also have a request which I find positive at first glance - you should see it - for the recognition of the teaching pre-service of OAED teachers by the Ministry of Education, as well as the Citizens' Counselor and the Legal Council of State to urge the state to regulate the injustice and to recognise the educational pre-service of these teachers who offer education for years. Thus, they call for the adoption of a legislative provision, in which the case is to be added 'and the pre-service to public TEIs and ETUCs, OAED apprenticeship schools'. I had noted, but you covered me to a certain extent, for the criteria in the multitude and in the MEDIA. As far as small and mediumsized enterprises are concerned, I think the drop from 67% to 50% is a very good proposal. As far as the multitude is concerned, I think there could be a rating in the molecules for most children. It is a measure that also answers your country's demographic problem. With all the things I've told you, I think it's a bill which, apart from the individual objections, can be voted on by the entire National Representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u220	Thank you. Mr Chiaras has the floor from New Democracy, because he has an unsuccessful obligation. We apologise, Mr. Kutsuba. Here, Mr. Chiara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on the bill, I would like to make a comment on the Prime Minister's speech yesterday during the debate on the vote of confidence. Of course, I am going to refer to the moment when, by bringing in the private communication from the neighbouring country of Skopje, he made a selective reference to points that, in his opinion, he himself and obviously made the political choice of the Syriza governmental party. Once again it seemed like half the truth. Once again we pretend without seeing what the reality is, and without presenting the whole, when there were two specific references to the Macedonian people and how you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, will now be called, you will address the neighbours of the neighbouring country of Skopje. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Unfortunately, the Minister for Education is also familiar with this practice. I am sorry to say this, Minister, but once again you are proving a different reality from the one you are presenting. You talk about consents, you talk about consultation, you talk about procedures that come out of society and are currently being presented in order to bring a piece of legislation. But is there really something like that? I will try with five specific points to show you that all you have said at times - and of course I will focus more on what is happening at the Thessaly TEI and especially at Karditsa - have nothing to do with reality. The explanatory statement is the first point. It is said that this whole process arises from consultation, through the so-called 'bottom-up'. That's a good expression. That is, that society also consults the Ministry as a final product. Is there really a 'bottom up' when the consultation is salamized and selective with the most convenient ones? I'll tell you a very short story to understand. The Minister with a call on August 7th - be careful! - says that on August 8th he'll be in Carditsa in order to have a meeting with the agencies and to consult. You realise that not only was his brief pass not only a consultation but when he said that all that he heard committed him to a new meeting by the end of August, which was never in this year, proved to be exactly the opposite. Personally on 20-09-2018 I tabled a question about the meeting you had, which, Minister, you never had the democratic sensitivity to answer. I have never received an answer to this question concerning your so-called consultation. On 28 September, the Minister's draft law was put into public consultation as well as inconsistent with the draft submitted in May, when you noted that there were at least two meetings of all the institutions of Carditsa with a red line which - I am sorry to say it - were, unfortunately, the Members of the SYRIZA have also arranged for it to be eradicated and overturned, and which raised various issues which were unnegotiable to us, of course, in the course of quotes. On 10 October you held a meeting with the three fellow Members of SYRIZA, the coordinator of the SYRIZA of Karditsa and another official of SYRIZA. Evidently, that's how everyone is consulted, Minister! On October 11, you met with Mayor Carditsa who is now supported by SYRIZA. You realise that the consultation we are talking about must take place between us and you. That's the consultation, isn't it? Of course, I told you again that the civil society of Carditsa has unfortunately reacted by more democratic procedures than you. With two meetings of all the actors in the city and an open gathering of citizens who returned your own bill as unacceptable. And all this shows that the democratic sensitivity you, Mr Minister, and the SYRIZA's honourable colleagues, obviously are a theory. Does it have anything to do with reality? Intervention second. Invitations to the House. You called on ten bodies to talk about the merging of the TEI and twelve other bodies to talk about the amendment on moleculosis. You can imagine how much importance was attached to the TEI merger process. Intervention third. Obviously it is not new, but the question of academic criteria, Minister, in committee I think you have shown more or less how to understand it. As you said in committee, the IPPC would eventually add to the draft law only paper and nothing more. Of course, on the basis of what the rapporteur of the New Democracy said earlier, obviously even if it is an independent authority, which you show how respecting it, once again you would like to check it, by putting a man who is very close to you in another role. Let's finally see what academic criteria are, so at least we can agree on something. You make a specific choice, which you are legislating on. What are the academic criteria for everyone to understand? As for the many promising Nutrition and Dietology Department in Karditsa, which was based on the introduction of sixteen thousand molecules, and you say that it must be separated between Carditsa and Trikalons, where is this an academic response, so that I too, Minister? Let me get to the fourth point - where Carditsa - I am forced to talk a little more about my city - which has the biggest campus in the region is ultimately the only town without a school! A claim which has been heard many times on the part of the Minister that with one department I cannot make a school, obviously can be easily answered if you look back at the University of Ioannina. What did you do in Arta, two schools with one department in each. We need to talk at some point in response to common sense. The common sense is that it is unanswered. All these nice things that very easily can be converted and presented in a different way, obviously expose politicians, much more expose people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Intervention fifth. I have seen with interest the amendment of my SYRIZA colleagues. It is in the positive direction, but with obvious feasibility. It's actually SYRIZA's smokescreen in local society. The acceptance of this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, is essentially the fig sheet offered by the Minister. Aren't we once going to stand responsibly against what was supposedly placed as a red line for the local society of our country, Karditsa? Minister, I am sorry to tell you, you have an image that often creates other impressions, but at the critical moment it is not shown that the choices you make are at least equivalent to what you present as your reality. As regards the amendment on which a lot of discussion is taking place, I have heard the President-in-Office say that sensitive social groups should receive a special benefit in order to be included in this logic at least. And I think you'll hear it with much greater interest. Of course, I am talking about the multitude and the tritexes, because I think this answers a very basic part not only of a social group, but of a more general search that the Greek state has in particular to deal with the demographic issue. Unfortunately, I will tell you that you are leaving, basically, the cycle of this government is being completed, attempting to divide and divide. However, I think that in this effort you are only finally achieving is that the unity of society is relaxed in the face of choices that will create many problems in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u222	Thank you. The President of the JRC Parliamentary Group, Mr Koutsoubas, has the floor for 15 minutes. And apologise for the excitement previously made, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u223	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, in order to present the system of appointment of teachers you propose as the opening-up of the road to thousands of recruitments, while, in essence, you are recycled the status of contractors and anointed ones, it really needs courage, of course, which you have proved to be. And you present this as an appointment system, when you know very well that many teachers from time to time will be left out of work. You're practically firing them. You fly into the trash years of work of people who have literally orchestrated Greece, they have stayed away from their families - if they have had time to have a family - have tried the pandemics, such as those embarrassing images of teachers who lived in tents. In fact, you also set up a whole site at the Ministry of Education to advertise this work. You can't convince otherwise it looks like your parrots have ready food. Of course, it is of particular interest that, among the actions that are being put forward, they have their honour and those that will become merciful of an election period. You trade in hope to old and young teachers, to people who have studied, tested them proven, obtained a degree, and now you tell them that it is not enough, you need more papers, you want a life of qualifications. This is the future of the youth you are evangelizing. And of course you're not the only ones in this. You are literally implementing the European Union's policy to decouple the diploma from the profession. And since we are talking about the European Union, to recall that already in 2008 in the European Parliament, your party, then the Coalition, together with the New Democracy and the PASOK, had voted in favour of the text, which clearly spoke of competitive selection procedures, that is to say, any future teacher seeing the other as his competitor. And we say this in order to understand that as a party of course you were and of course you are fully integrated into the anti-popular policy of the European Union. You didn't discover it now that you're in the government, just perfecting this policy. That is why you are congratulating the Commission. Hence the difficulties of the New Democracy now, from which you took the bite from the mouth and the issues of education. What are you really proud of, gentlemen of the government? You're saying you've done a job in education in conditions of harsh budgetary tightness. Yes, sir. However, that this budgetary narrowness, which literally smashed only the Greek people, was walking along with the millions of gifts you made in business groups, you are not talking about. And you even come to misery to accuse the JRC that the request for thirty thousand permanent appointments here and now to fill the gaps that exist, which are not at all extraordinary but stable, is populism, that it is an extreme request. Extreme demand and populism! In fact, the Minister is ironing in here! Are you serious, will we, gentlemen of the Ministry of Education? You who, in 2015, election and post-election, promised twenty thousand teachers' appointments, as did New Democracy for ten thousand? And after the four years of yours and the other four years of New Democracy, we are still looking to find these appointments, in other words, to see who is serious and who is truly ridiculous, here, Mr. Minister of Intelligence and the Memorandum Reforms. So, what do teachers and, more generally, the educational movement, who are outside this Chamber, now ask for protests about their right? Keep your election promises. That's all for now. What else are you proud of, gentlemen of the government? What about the fact that children don't have a stable teacher in the full-day primary school? About turning the full-day kindergarten exclusively into a storage place? The fact that the disabled student does not have access to the structures, to the trainer he needs? The fact that every September and October restrictions on the operation and establishment of qualifications in PESAs and students are forced to leave the specialty they want or to be transferred to another school? Are you proud of why you are delaying the implementation of aiding teaching and additional teaching support in high school and high school? You made a school that literally works with what you have left over from kindergarten to high school. But even that's still not enough for you, despite all your surgical-type inadmissible interventions. To need fewer teachers, gaps live and reign. Behind every gap and lack of teachers, there is a student who loses contact with a number of cognitive objects, a student who has no musician, has no gymnast, theatrologist, a series of other specialties that can contribute to the education of the young man. In high schools and high schools, you force teachers to take lessons regardless of their scientific subject, that is, what they have studied. We don't know if in this superficial vacancy of your celebrations you understand what it means, what reactionary anachronism is that, what a great setback! The school is supported by teachers, these teachers who keep them in charge of five-and-a-half wages, who have now begun to teach their grandchildren. The situation is constantly getting worse with the retirement limits you have decided on. As for your criminal intervention - so you say - in pre-school treatment, ask the kindergartens who conspirate children in some cage halls. Now, in order to seal the flagship of this intervention, you have also sent instructions for containers which will house todlers - even containers - and at the same time, you have cut funds from the state budget of 140,000 000 for the construction of pre-school roofs. And otherwise, you're talking about defending public school. And how do you prove that? Very simply, you put us, you put the Greek people, the teachers, all compare you to the New Democracy. The truth is that it suits you very much what he says and suggests, because you also promote reactionary policy and the right-wing bogeyman, when you do the same. You are not convinced, gentlemen of the government, though! You have dug up all the arguments put forward by the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK and you are attacking the JRC by targeting, however, the people, teachers, parents, students and their claims. The Minister has dared to say that when the JRC demands - as many as thousands of teachers and their associations on the streets - that the Ministry should take this alleged amendment back, he is supposedly asking for things to remain the same, that no appointment should be made, that the JRC wants the Diamantopoulou law to remain the same. And the Minister himself says this just to the antenna adopts the logic of the qualifications and certifications laid down by the law of Diamantopoulou. Look at something else. This accusation is populism and extremism to claim your rights, which is not only addressed to the KKE, but first of all, it is addressed to the Greek people, you have been unsuccessful by the whole of New Democracy and PASOK. So we insist and insist, not in the run-up to election, as you have done to steal certain votes, but permanently and firmly that the only demand, which can really give a breath to the carved schools, is to upgrade - from the perspective of at least addressing the gaps - school life is to become, here and now, thirty thousand permanent appointments of teachers, to insulate the thousands of alternates directly. After all, even today, in the middle of the school year, there are hundreds of gaps according to educational federations. 'There's no money', you'll say again. 'Where to find them?', you tell us. And we answer you: Of course there are no people's needs alone. It seems to you that there are many about 500,000 euros that they need each year to work for another thirty thousand teachers. But it is well to give 4,000,000 euros a year for NATO's war machine, without any reason, because these billions, not least, are not made for real defence spending in the country, but only for NATO's aggressive planning and action. Just because your policy is anti-popular and reactionary, it cannot and does not want to give a positive response to the social need for the gaps to be covered by permanent teachers, so that there is a stable educational relationship between the teacher and the student. And that's not at all, but no luxury in today's time we're talking about. But eventually, it won't pass you. It is a challenge for the people's families, which you call on them to reconcile with the shortcomings, with the gaps in the schools, with the deterioration of their children's cultural rights, to be forced, especially in the sensitive area of special education, to change educational every year or even within the same year. It won't pass you! It is a challenge for young scientists, children studying at the universities of the country, to tell them on the basis of putting a degree in a cedar to see it and run to collect credits, molecules, and payment seminars. I mean, paying a life to see if you can find a place in the sun. And don't tell us hypocritically that they need academic qualifications. Another is your concern, to create a large market of certifications, degrees, postgraduate diplomas, which, with your own boulder, have tuition fees. Our young people and their families are paying badly. He's giving and taking the trade in attestations. You don't really care about the necessary scientific upgrade of graduates. If you're interested in it, you'll make it free of charge for everyone and not for the few. If you were really interested, you would implement what you did neither did nor the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, the scientific annual training of teachers. Finally, if you were interested in the scientific upgrading of graduates, you would not open the way to the secondment of pedagogical competence from the degree. None of this really concerns you and don't tell us, as you recently wrote in the Ministry's text, that the Constitution prohibits the permanentisation of the contractors in Article 103. You have the watermelon and the knife, if you want it, and of course you don't want it. Make it acceptable here and now to the JRC's position to lift this ban. After all, the constitutional review is before us, but you do not even propose that as far as we know. Gentlemen of the government, we're telling you that you'll always find us in front of you. We are thus judging our action, not whether we are the good children of BSE, of the European Union, of NATO or I don't know who else, but whether we contribute, from our own point of view and from here and out of this Chamber, to stand up for our people, in order to claim all that they own, so that our country and our people can go in total ahead. We are calling, essentially, for upgraded education, only public and free, permanent and stable work for all and obviously also in the field of education, a training that will work for the social needs. And that is why any appointing systems will not have at their centre in this case how they exclude young people and lives, but how the graduates of university departments will be integrated on the basis of scientific, national design in schools. And you know, all that humanity has lived through, despite all the difficulties, despite all the problems of socialism that we have known, with weaknesses, shortcomings and mistakes. Then there were no gaps or tireless workers and substitutes, which are today not tomorrow. We do not, of course, expect the government to talk about these, nor the other urban parties, even though many of you in here and almost all of the wings of this House have met these events closely, since you have studied for free in these countries. Today you are the ones who drink water in the name of the European Union, which equates fascism with socialism, who cooperates with extreme right-wing and fascist regimes of today's Central and Eastern Europe. And from this Step we invite the young people, the teachers, the students, their parents to make the real difference, to test their truly inexhaustible power and to put their signature today and eventually their seal on developments tomorrow. The progressive, modern, the truly philosophical, is our people to make a test in the economy, in society, to set the criteria for development with design and science and not a handful of a few parasites who live by the work of many. Today it is more than necessary for the road to open for this society.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr Koutsouba Parliamentary Group President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u226	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u227	I think Mr Koutsoubas mentioned certain things that are not accurate. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Kutsuba, you said that now is not a formal qualification. It's typical, though. We will see it in the amendment. It can't be a formal qualification. So we don't disconnect the degree from the profession. That's what I think needs to be safeguarded. Secondly, let us make this scenario, that I am called by the Minister of Finance and that he says to me: 'In agreement with both the Prime Minister and the other ministers, I propose that we proceed with the permanent appointment of thirty thousand teachers' and ask you what system you prefer for the permanent appointment of these teachers. I would ask you to answer me. What system would you qualify for the appointment of these people? Do not blame us for trade in hope, because there are hundreds of thousands of citizens out there, who have a right too. That is why we say that the concept of law must be a concept of law for society as a whole. And that's why I can't understand when you say that and you don't say how, on the right side, the government comes to think guilty that it doesn't go any further. Or we could say something else. Do you accept that there will be fifteen thousand appointments? I hope you'll accept it. So tell us about the fifteen thousand first. How is this to be done? We haven't heard one thing from you. However, what we have seen and what shocks us as the progressive part of society is that you voted against the abolition of Presidential Decree 152, which was for the punishing evaluation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u228	You brought it in another wording.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u229	You voted against it. Let you vote for the abolition and vote against the structures. You voted against the compulsory two-year pre-school education, which the education community sixty-one years ago had put it on the table. I would like to say to you that regardless of whether tons rise up or down and say that one is similar to another, it is not so much if one votes the same as the other as that there are questions that do not want answers in general and indefinitely, but they want very specific answers. And I insist that the specific answer that is now needed, at this time, today, is to tell us what system you prefer for the appointment of these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u231	Mr. President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u232	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u233	The Minister understood very well what he said about the questions he raised. They have been responded on several occasions by the JRC and in this Chamber and in private in meetings in the various committees. There are concrete proposals. This innocent, you know, weaving usually used by the Minister of Education would do well, I would tell him, to change it because he doesn't honor him. It is better to make critical remarks which he disagrees with and tells the opinion of the dobra and grape, not to pretend he does not understand. This tactic is known. The JRC has spoken clearly about both the certifications and the degrees and how it is disconnected from each other and about the teaching competence and about what you have been preparing for many years and the previous ones from you and you have continued it. The JRC has made concrete proposals on what is necessary today for the thirty thousand appointments. The JRC tells you clearly also from the position of the Opposition that this is its role, to judge you. Why are you actually flying in the street, in the anointedness of thousands of substitutes, thousands of teachers who are in this meteorology and bleeding every day. Everyone in our family, in our surroundings, has such people. They're people who can't have a family. They're people who can't live their family. One is in Evros, the other is in Rethymnon, the children living here as a minor with Grandma and Grandpa and not get the money either for their rent or to live three and four families in Greece. And you do not move on to the permanentization of these people. It's clear. Any other procedural action, obstacle, etc. you find yourself either from the European Union or from the Constitution, or from the current legislative function, by the laws which are in force, can also change by means of specific laws. You can take money away from where I told you, which you only give inconsistently to increase corruption, to raise your hugging with other decision-makers, who are against people's rights, against the educational system, against our new generation, our children and our grandchildren. It's just that you understand them. And, of course, once again be careful about how you bring the amendments, which you have said, incorporated into different bills with other wordings that others mean, but others also lead to practical action. You may have the best of intentions, Mr. Gavroglou, but tomorrow it will be someone else. Isn't that what you're thinking? Because that is how you answer us on the basis of the substance. "What should we do? We found them." Isn't such a logic yesterday and yesterday and today and every day? "It was the PASOK, it was the New Democracy. What can we do? That's all we got. We are in the European Union. What can we do? That's where we are. We're in NATO's jungle. What can we do? That's where we are. We continue and make these reforms and we submit to this system, to this logic and to these anti-grass laws." Hey, finish this story. And do not go to the election balconies to say that 'we will change these'. Tell the truth. Didn't you know when you were speaking in election terms about twenty thousand appointments here and now? And you criticized the New Democracy for the ten thousand she didn't. Twenty and ten are thirty thousand. Where are those eight years now? Are we going back to the memoirs again? We left in August, you said that again. Well, I don't have the intention of reintroducing a suggestion. Our rapporteur spoke, other Members will speak, we will answer. If Mr. Gavroglou wants more clarification, I have it. I didn't deposit documents. I also have them with me for the containers you send for kindergartens, the constructions from secondary and primary education here in the municipalities of Attica to fill in the gaps. It's your Ministry's orders. And other stuff like that. The people know it. Teachers, who are out of this Chamber, know about it. I don't know if you sent the MATs back to cut them off like you did the other day. We almost mourn the victim of a Member of Parliament, Yiannis Dellis, from the JRC Parliamentary Group. So be more careful about the JRC and what it says and open your ears more. Study the criticism we are making, study the proposals, and so go from now on. There can be no further tolerance to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u234	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u236	Minister, don't go on. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u237	Although Mr. Koutsubas begged me, in one of his own ways, to leave the innocent toll I will have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u238	With your particular style, I said it. I didn't tell you it was weird.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u239	You told me with a specific style to leave my specific tone. So let everyone behave as he thinks. It's a freedom we've conquered, you know, here. I don't know if she's conquered elsewhere. But it's a conquered freedom to speak with one's own tone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u240	You're free. And I'm free to judge your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u241	Sure. Not to protect people from changing textures. This is other times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u242	You say that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u243	I don't want to. Keep it up with you guys in the same style. You have every right. And I have my style. What am I supposed to do? But what matters is this: you have not answered me again. If tomorrow was to move on to these recruitments, how would we do that? We're going to publish these posts? Would we say 'if there are any other people who are interested in these positions'? You said to change the Constitution by recognizing that the Constitution forbids it. You said that in Europe, anyway, these other things and they go by saying. I tell you, with a regime that exists today, with the possibility of appointments being permanent after ten years, do you want these appointments to be carried out?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u244	But you haven't done them either.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u245	That's what I'm telling you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u246	Do you realize that you've been closed for four years in government power? Why don't you do them? Do 15 thousand under the conditions set by the educational federations. You have been put forward very specifically. Why don't you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u247	I'll tell you. You think the crisis we've been through was a general theater. That's what you think. Not that we went through fire and iron and this government managed to get us out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u248	Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u249	So you think that everything is part of an incredible conspiracy. Societies are not interpreted by conspiracy shapes. That's not how they're interpreted. So I would ask you, beyond any tensions, etc., to tell us which system you have for the appointment of teachers. We'd like to know about it even for academic reasons if nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u250	Thank you. But don't go any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u251	Mr President, just a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u252	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u253	A word that Mr Gabroglou just confirmed what I said just before and how he criticized and what he said, but also about the substance of the other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u254	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of thirty-four students and students and five educational attendants from the 3rd Municipal School of Agrinio. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] A request for a roll-call vote has been tabled by the New Democracy on the basis of the draft law of the Ministry of Education. If there are other parties that have the right to testify, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u255	In principle. We're not putting any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u256	Yeah, but you're gonna have to testify, so we can get the paper in our hands. The debate will run until 23.00 p.m. and then the roll-call vote will take place electronically, as we know. Mr Constantine Bargiotas, Member of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u257	It seems that we are entering a new reality, therefore, with the votes, as there is a small problem. Since yesterday we have a new government majority, which is not made up of parties, it is made up of a party and six independent MPs. So every time I think we'll have a small technical problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u258	Technical, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u259	Yeah. We should ask Mr Dannelly if she agrees with Article 32, Mrs Papakostas if she agrees or disagrees with Article 44. In any case, we have to find, as a government, a way of confirming this majority. The Prime Minister does not like the name 'Karl government', to redeem it, to call it 'government patchwork', and they call this in my village. In any case, gatherings for the vote of confidence, gatherings for the Prespecies Agreement. You'll have to find a way to function as a government. The liquidation of the majority since yesterday is a major government problem that you will somehow have to deal with. I did not intend to begin with the criteria for appointments to the public, but the very interesting duel with a background red in the red sun for the eyes and the votes of assistants who are outside, causes me to make a few comments on this issue first to go to universities afterwards. So we have seen a very big controversy about who is more friendly to teachers, what is the best system, etc. The truth is, if we want to see things objectively, that since the abolition of the year - which was rightly abolished, it had reached its limit - no other country has seen so many systems, recruitment criteria. In no other country has so many subcategories of '1993', 'a failure', '2008', and I do not know what else, for the simple reason that this country has never been able to create a single system of criteria for appointments that would apply more than two or three years. The government does the same today. It is essentially using the bill on criteria to close the eye in a few tens of thousands of candidate teachers, to create hope, and in fact it knows very well that it will apply to the best case - and if the government ends its life in October and not earlier - for a circle of four thousand five hundred recruits that it will do, it says, Mrs Jufi because they are written in the budget. The appointments of 2020 and 2021 announced by Mr Gavroglou as he will make them a government. So it's probably gonna be on other criteria, because no one wanted to be shocked, no one sat down to talk to anyone about how to hire teachers from here and beyond with a sound system of uniform and time-consuming. What we are doing is trying to prove that we are more friendly - good time talking before - with some groups, set up a customer relationship and attract votes. Well, that's not how it's being trained. It never happened and it's never gonna happen now. To return to the main body of the shrinking of universities and the merger of the University of Thessaly, which was very wronged by the inspiration of the Ministry, which is not by chance, to stick the entire bill behind it as an amendment to the appointments. The aim of all these mergers that we see become an avalanche in the last year and they will be extended is a memorandum. It's a decline, a reduction in the number of institutions in the country. Memorandum or not, as things had actually reached the unprecedented, it is also national. The new architecture that Mr Gavroglou says we must pursue, pretending to be seeking, is necessary. The redeployment of higher education in the country is necessary, provided we have a national strategy and we can describe what we want to do and what the university we are visionating is, let us not go too far, in 2030. What is our policy? Is the policy of facilitating 'education', namely the collection of titles reaping with this government in recent years, by abolishing filters, exams and excellence? Is the migration of unemployment what we are seeking? Many universities with easy access, so that some are not registered in the eighteen unemployed, but in the twenty-eight, after a decade of endless education, or is research, innovation and excellence in areas where the country has comparative advantages? Or the production of high-trained executives? Or should we try to do everything at the same time by actually creating a lot of speeds? Because I'm very afraid that the Department of Aerospace Technology in Psachna, Evia, will never be able to look into their eyes at graduates from the National Technical University of Thessaloniki. So what is being created is a lot of speeds with many recipients. Do we know what we want? Do we need so many geoponns? Two university departments are created at the University of Thessaly. The Agronomic University of Athens, which aspires - we hear - to do a Veterinary School without any study of the economics to create and, at the same time, a Department of Agricultural Production is also set up in the EMCDDA, in the Evia Scouts. Do we know what we want? We know how many scientists in each industry we want, what direction will they have? It is said the reform from the bottom up, the bottom up, and Mr Tsiaras said so, I agree, is an excellent term. The debate and the advancement of decentralised and upwards gather the solutions, and where we agree with them, we agree with them, and we do what children say, except that if there is a national programme and a specific development plan and model for universities, what is usually an abominable one. The guilds have their own priorities, the localizations dominate and see things differently and instead of collapsing all of this into a new single program and plan, you just tolerate them, feeders, and you create schools here, schools from there on an industrial scale. Mr. Gabroglou was right. For many years the departments were created on the basis of local pressures. Now they are recreated in exactly the same way, but not one here one and one more, a few dozen here and a few dozen there. How will it work? With what money? The Report of the General Accounting Office of the State states that the Ministry has not provided information on the budgetary burden arising from the creation of new departments and research centres, namely, no one knows. I fear that mergers are carried out without a plan and are an attempt to balance syndicate and customer needs and local needs without any plan. This is not how education is being built and the different solutions are chosen because, as we have said before, the responses are being minimized. We close our eye on the guilds so we can do it quickly. Another method at the TEI and at the University of Epirus, another solution at Thessaly, another at the international university, another method at Crete where the TEI of Crete is displayed at an autonomous university. Why not Larissa's TEI that has an excellent campus, excellent schools. However, in Larissa the debate has been heterogeneous from the outset for reasons of party preferences. The University's proposal was adopted, as it was, without any further debate and it took a great deal of effort to balance and vote, not that the problems were solved. He is still heterogeneous and still has completely different characteristics from what he had in Epirus or has at the International University. The membership councils, to say one example, are defined and formed in a different way at each university from these three. The International University has different functions and administrative structures of the decentralised university. No one will ever believe in Larissa that the merger of TEI Thessaly with the University of Thessaly was a national necessity, when something else is done in Crete, in Epirus something different is done and at the International University in Thessaloniki something else will be done. It is obvious that the government's efforts to end the Memorandum of Occupational Reaction of Universities with as few reactions as possible. I must admit that it does so in an extremely intelligent way, by closing the eye on individual groups and satisfying requests to the detriment of education and certainly at the expense of the operation of schools, TEI and the University of Thessaly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to say two words, because I have spent a lot of time on health amendments. ‘PHILOS’ was known to end in August 2019 for a long time. This is the second extension of the programme for the simple reason that the Ministry of Health has not taken care of in time to recruit staff. The miserable conditions and miserable health coverage of both Moria and other refugee centres are known. It's really a shame. There are no elementary medical treatments and elementary medical treatment. The situation is getting old and evolving, even though it was well known that this had to be the case. In the second amendment, which extends the life of the subsidiary, we will not vote for the second paragraph, because once you have to stop moving from an extension. Four years later, you have had enough governmental experience to open the competitions in time and solve problems on time. The fact that he would escape "PHILOS" in August 2018 was known. We are in January 2019 and we go for March unless there is any new extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u260	Good, Mr. Barriotta.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u261	We do not legalise such procedures any more, even though we recognise that the situation there is disgusting with your own responsibility again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr Barriotta. Mrs Eleni Aylonitou, SYRIZA MP, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the bill for the synergies of three university institutions, Kapodistrian, Geoponic Athens and the University of Thessaly with two technological institutions, Thessaly and Central Greece. The other day, we saw the strong protest by teachers on the streets, but also the activist action of the assistant teachers, who interrupted the ERT's document and made their request known to the whole world. What was that? Appointment of all assistant teachers in public education. So the first thing to be stressed and heard by the Greek people is that this government fought, this government negotiated, and this government managed to win the permanent appointment of fifteen thousand teachers in public education at a depth of three years, starting with four and a half thousand teachers in special education in 2019, with five thousand two hundred fifty in 2020 and five thousand fifty teachers in general education in 2021. This was the victory of the government, which started with the reintroduction of the rule of "an intake against a withdrawal". So, what do you want, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation? Do you want the Memorandum of Reintroduction of the rule of "one intake against five departures", which Mr Mitsotakis promises? Would you like to reinstate the political contingency carried out by the government of Samara - Venizelos, threatening to send teachers to prison, which was abolished by the SYRIZA - ANEL government? Would you like to reinstate the fair holiday that was sending teachers to the margin and abolished by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government? Do you want the anti-democratic - not to say 'fascist' - of 15% of the practice set by the previous coup d'état, on the grounds of dismissal of teachers on the basis of the punishing assessment, which they would judge and which this government abolished? Have you forgotten the dismissal of two and a half thousand teachers of professional high school and the dissolution of their main sections, who were watching children most of the people's family, even sending the equipment of the abolished sections to private IEK? Have you forgotten that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has reinstated all teachers in availability and not only has it reconstituted the various sections of the ESDP, but with a special bill that has already upgraded them, giving new prospects to public technical training? We are, therefore, the ones that are responsible for managing and upgrading public education. New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis are the ones that dismantle public education, who fire. After all, he himself showed it when he was Minister, and we all know him as the Minister of redundancies. So do you think it changed now when he promises to reintroduce the previous Memorandum Rules 'one to five', namely not to recruit teachers, shrinking and degrading public education towards private sector? Evidently, because he considers that through private education he can meditate excellence, as he means, by dismissing vengeanceal teachers, when they do their job properly, such as in the case of Professor Buluta, who fortunately retracts from the archive and even after the unjustified teacher dies, he will be vindicated. Let us now go to the criteria for permanent appointments. Ladies and gentlemen, let us speak frankly. When you have, for example, over 100 thousand people to claim 15 thousand posts, some will always feel unfair. However, the system of molecular criteria has gone through a great deal of suffering to make it as fair, more reasonable and balanced as possible, by mobilising excellence, i.e. titles of study, but also, above all, by mobilising pre-services and, indeed, a hundred and twenty-month plan, while Olea itself set an eighty-four months limit, precisely because it is important to stress that thanks to the pre-service of the substitutes, it was supported and public education stood in the Memorandum years. Finally, the system is also complemented by the social criteria, giving three molecules for every child, which for me must be strengthened, knowing that we have a demographic problem. In relation to the main part of today's bill, the Ministry seeks an unprecedented project, a project that comes from below to be tested and brings for the first time the synergy of three universities and two TEIs with the creation of new research centres and support for local society, with the ultimate aim of providing a high level of education and training, as well as the international recognition of the university space in the European area. In other words, this project comes up to order in the chaos that you have created, since you have managed to set up university and technological departments without essential infrastructure, only to satisfy customer demands in the face of elections and to take university grades. It's no coincidence you've come to set up a university without students and without teachers. Today, with this reform, technological institutions with their scientific and administrative staff are being upgraded with a new curriculum of study, with international prestige and increased academic skills, while universities are strengthening themselves to become competitive and to give flesh and bones to what we call the "productive reconstruction of the country" for the benefit of society, linking university knowledge and innovation to the local strategic advantages of each region. In cases where there are well-founded injustices - and they relate to successful technological divisions, such as the Department of Medical Labs of Thessaly - the Ministry plans and acts in the only way he knows, the completely democratic one, sending a review of the subject to the dean of the University of Thessaly, in order to maintain this department, even in a different form, as a direction to a section of biomedical sciences. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, I would like to highlight our great differences with the Civic Opposition. We support education with permanent appointments. We are creating strong public university institutions to shield themselves against self-interest and to be able to compete adequately and successfully within the single European university area of higher education. We are doing all this with respect for the dialogue, with the agreement of the Senate, with the strengthening of university autonomy, because that is what our democracy demands, whose education is its shield. This is the way we have to go. That is why I am voting in favour of the bill and I invite you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Ms. Helen Aylonitou, SYRIZA MP. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students, as well as two teachers from the 3rd High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform the students that they are following a draft law debate on education which, after the debate and the vote that is taking place this evening, will become a state law. Two functions are carried out in this Chamber: one is to discuss bills which, once adopted and approved, become laws of the state. The other is called parliamentary control. Members from all the parties control the ministers and the government for the things they have done and by means of a certain procedure - a debate is being held - some answers are being given. Mr Stakoras, Member of the New Democracy Region, now has the floor. I mention this because we have been asked for people with visual problems to say both the constituency and the Party, of course, so that they can attend the meeting more comfortably.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, economic science has established that the higher education system is the main mechanism for producing, accumulating and disseminating human capital, that it is in many interactions with the systems of research and technological development, innovation and entrepreneurship. And all that can be better when combined, when it comes to promoting national, regional and local sustainable development, employment, social mobility and cohesion. Unfortunately, the draft law under discussion does not take into account either the suggestions of science or the successful time-consuming applications of the world. It is inappropriate for the country, it is inappropriate and inconsistent for the Region of Central Greece and is inappropriate, unrealistic and unfair for the headquarters of the Region of Central Greece, Lamia. I'm explaining. Ladies and gentlemen, firstly, the government's legislative initiative does not contain a documented, rational national strategy. On the contrary, it is dominated by micro-party targets and arrangements of individual interests. This is confirmed - and other Vice-Presidents have said so - with other institutions in the country. Two yards and two weights. Others happen in one geographical area, but they happen in the other. It refers to synergy between TEI and universities, when the TEI of Central Greece ceases to exist as an autonomous higher education institution. In fact, has the degree of success of the TEIs been evaluated in relation to their mission? For, if their rating level has been high, then what is the reason for their abolition? If the rating grade was low again, then what did the academic logic of integrating them into universities? And if it were intermediate, why does the government not support the institution academicly and logistically, even through the association of institutions of the same type? Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased The Government removes from the Region of Central Greece an autonomous, self-powered tertiary institution. Therefore, it is deducting capital from it, since it will no longer appear in the global scientific community and international literature, and universities know what that means to us. It hits the entity of the Region of Central Greece and triggers - take note of this - change of reference centres, fragmenting academic and research areas. Thirdly, the government is experimenting, as it changes the model in the rest of Greece. I believe that, despite the temporary - perhaps - satisfaction of some local societies, the potential role of university education in the development of the region is weakened long ago. Who really guarantees institutions that external factors will operate over time in favour of the region? Who guarantees that funds channelled through the three universities will also be brought into regions whose structures will now have little influence on the administrative bodies of the former three universities? Who guarantees that parts within hundreds of miles will receive the necessary academic care from the decision-making centres? Who guarantees that the three universities will not pass through their expansion to the Region of Central Greece in unequal economies? Have there been studies on this? Who guarantees that taxpayers will no longer be charged with an increased public cost per student? Have you checked all this? Do you have any answers to these questions? Fourthly, the Government removes from Lamia the seat of a higher education institution which has until now and at the same time gives it a lower share of the national system of higher education than it has had to date. This brings her into a more unfavourable position not only with the seats of all the other regions of the country, but also from several other cities in the country. In short, the government leaves Lamia, the headquarters of the Region of Central Greece with less than it has received. Fifthly, the Government does not make use of arrangements established for Lamia by the previous government, such as an area in the PABYP area for building up buildings for university education, research and innovation. This study has been carried out with the help of many compatriots, including an excellent cooperation with the then President of the TEI Eastern Central, my dear colleague, Mr Karastasis, but also with three research departments and research centres and the headquarters of the network of central Greek innovation, which were then laid down in a law abolished by the current government. The argument put forward by the Government on the ATHENA project does not stand for serious discussion. Why if he believes that that decision was wrong, then why does he not correct this error with the re-establishment of the University of Central Greece, especially today, when the conditions created five years ago for the re-establishment and gradual establishment of a viable university are more favourable than the past? There is now a school with two departments with good dynamics. He runs a successful postgraduate course, which he did not have at the time. There are exploitable academic islands in TEI and there are also conditions for good infrastructure. The referral back to committee reminds me of Pontius Pilate's practice and, as such, does not convince him of its deepest intentions. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting against the draft law of the Government, because, apart from not serving either the national objective of balanced regional development or higher education, it does not serve the long-term interest of the Region of Central Greece and is completely wrong in its seat. The theme of the gradual formation of quality, efficient, extroverted and European competitive University of Central Greece remains open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr Staikora, Member of the New Democracy. Mrs Harula (Haras) Kefalidou, MP Dramas from the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u267	Mr President, good afternoon to all colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill from the Ministry of Education after we have closed with the vote of confidence. Pending the great, historical agreement of the Ambassadors, we proceed to the legislative work quickly and in a hurry, because the government is becoming more urgent. You have told us in all possible ways and in all tonnes that there is a very great need to condone parliamentary time. And so we will go from here and then, with very short procedures, urgently because there are - as you say - very large and important legislation that awaits us. I've heard the minister who said it so angelically. He accepted all the parliamentary amendments concerning proposals by SYRIZA Members and also by name. Not a single reference to the rest, because we know very well that we are in a pre-election period and what you have done for four years now, you will continue to do so with maniac. Everything must have the SYRIZA seal. He talked about universities' synergy with TEIs, about an open dialogue between institutions, areas and excesses, about sixty-five positions in Thessaly and so many more at the University of Athens. Mrs Anagnostopoulou also told us that this was a bill of historic importance. I would also tell you that it should be, and so should, all the bills that concern such big issues. As long as the government does not work on them so that it does not sacrifice them on the altar of vote. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the structure of higher education in the country, this is an important national issue. When you form your strategy for the establishment of a single higher education area, it's a big deal, and that's what you have to design with a vision of at least 20 years. To do this, however, first of all, you need time. You talk, which means first of all that you listen, and then you follow steady steps that are gradually taking, that are enduring the suffering, testing and implementation. Instead, what does the government do? It continues its policy of a serial merger of universities with TEI, which is always carried out in summary procedures and with a bill industry, without essential documentation of any need for this choice. In the end, instead of upgrading, it abolishes the technological field of higher education. And it does so without a comprehensive strategic plan in terms of the country's academic map, a la carte, depending on what suits it is, without an evaluation of the curriculum of the TEIs that are part of universities, without a debate in the multi-advertised national dialogue on education, without a dialogue of universities themselves on the proposals of the Ministry. The concept of words with all that we hear and see in this Chamber has now been lost. What didn't you tell us? That the government all these nice things he says he does, omissions it in his logic 'I scan everything here and now to prevent the elections'. This is what you did by setting up the University of Western Attica last year, with consensus, arrangements, arrangements and all kinds of services. You continued last summer, in the same logic as the Ionian University and the University of Ioannina. There - as you have said - you have restructured and restructured. And today, a few months later - it has only been three months - there is the grand plan for the University of Thessaly, the National Kapodistrian, the Agricultural University that is merged with the TEIs of Thessaly and Central Greece, indifferent and drowning every opposite voice. A report of ideas you have delivered on synergies, solidarity, development and productive model, on the pretext of society, and all that we are tired of hearing, because they are nice words without saying anything. So you go on to merges and absorptions of TEIs by universities, in a spirit of dialogue, without calculating the view of the IPI that its annual report - a oppressor tells you that it is inappropriate and unevaluated, because the way you have chosen is that. I, too, tell you that you are continuing, despite all the democratic dialogue. No objections have been taken into consideration, none of the proposals tabled. That's all because - I'm telling you again - you don't mean it. What about this inspiring blood donation and subsistence of the scientific sector from one university to another? Is it going to be with universities of different speeds? Is it going to be conceived, isotopic, with the creation of only new divisions? Because there are piles of provisions in the bill that are really photographic, it's arrangements I'll give you the following outlines: Article 3(5): The photographic provision on the possibility of being a candidate for a dean who is a retired person for the manner in which the members of the board of directors are incorporated, other than for assistants and assistants, other for teachers A' grade. However, I would like to say a little bit about the amendment concerning the EDF. I'll tell you this is another step forward. We're against it. We want a new organisation and not fragmentary solutions, such as the proposed one, that closes the eye to the service. And in the short time that I have left, I want to come to this amazing, statements that are made today by both the Deputy Minister of Culture, Mr. Army, and Mr. Tsakalotos yesterday. They are about this amazing transfer of monuments of cultural heritage to the supranational area. You broke your clothes for the silversmiths of the country. Isn't that right? On hegemony SYRIZA - ANEL, then, all the cultural heritage went to the superstate. There is no doubt about that. We're listening to wishes and spells so far. You never answer the questions tabled by the Democratic Alliance. I have them here and I'll testify to you. These are four questions, one amendment and one proposal for a law to which you will never answer us. Where's this famous list? Why isn't it made public? How will the monstrosity be corrected? And that's not all. You think that this deafening noise from the concession of the monuments of cultural interest belonging to the Greek people in ETAD can be cut off with press releases from the Ministry of Culture. Well, I inform you that the entire Greek people are asking to be made public and the full list of all those belonging to the Greek people who were handed over to the EBRD, which I would remind you is the supermarket subsidiary that was created for the repayment of the public debt to creditors. I also ask you to make the delivery conditions public at this well-founded institution, the supreme institution, which is shameful of the place and proof of our national insolvency. I'm asking you to get the FEK back here and now. Cancel transfers. That's the only way. Otherwise, you will confirm all those who say you do business under the table, which you do and you do not blush and dare to speak about moral advantage. For all this, and because we believe that the draft law does not rationalise, promote, upgrade the quality of studies, it is not what higher technical education needs, we are voting against it, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u268	Thank you to Mrs. Joy Kefalidou, Member of the Drama of the Democratic Association. Mr Stavros Kontonis, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, we seem to be calling on the week of unanswered invitations. Yesterday the Prime Minister invited the Chief of Officerial Response to a public confrontation of arguments and opinions on the issue of the Prespecies Agreement, and today - as I understand it - he got a negative answer, that he will not be deprived of this invitation. Today the Minister of Education also received a negative answer when he asked the Secretary-General of the JRC to tell him a system proposed by the JRC to carry out appointments." We have not heard any proposals, or rather, to be fair, I would like to tell you, Minister, that there is an answer to what both the rapporteur and the Secretary-General of the JRC have said. SYRIZA was initially accused of estimating the year. So they tell us that the yearbook is the means to make appointments, and the other is that because in each family there is a substitute, the government should appoint only substitutes. I understand that, which is illegal, because if you legislate, it will go to the Council of State as unconstitutional. And I ask, ladies and gentlemen, if the government did this on the road, it was not the alternates, but were all their other colleagues, who are objectively excluded from the appointment, the Secretary-General of the JRC what would he say? To hire them, too. I am sure you have no doubt, Minister. And ours and yours, that's the logic. And because that logic is deadlocked, where does it end up as an argument? Appoint them all. In other words, those who have not been appointed ten years and those who have now been out of appointment must, without calculating the financial possibilities, without the government taking into account where all these people will be appointed and how they will be paid for their work, be appointed. That's the situation. This is the level of discussion at the National Representation. But, Minister and honourable Members, when I spoke yesterday - because I went through the gathering on Monday - I listened to the loudspeakers of a working father saying that the debate was postponed in the House - with my ears - because it is a government's plan to deliver the mobilisations at the time when there was a vote of confidence. I understand Golgotha, who is the leader of the Ministry of Education, when he calls for dialogue and listens to such sensations, which are transformed into a trade union. That's the situation. Finally, these mobilizations, which some come very easily to embrace, against whom are they turning? Are they turning against the government? Because if the government meets, as I have said before, the request to be appointed exclusively alternates, then you can understand that all the others will revolt, who also have qualifications to claim something in their lives. This mobilization is not against the government, ladies and gentlemen. It turns against their colleagues, and that's the worst right now. Because some people who come here saying great words do not understand that the government today is taking a big step to get out of this vicious circle in which we have gone over the last ten years. And I have heard another slogan 'this policy will be abolished'. That's what they were calling on Monday that I went down to the gathering, to figure out exactly what they want. If a policy is, therefore, abolished - not abolished - it is the examination policy, it is the policy of hourly wages, it is the policy of non-permanent staff. This policy is being abolished. Do they not want this policy to be abolished? Didn't they want to? Because that was the consistent request of the trade union movement for permanent appointments. And now that the government is making permanent appointments, they say that 'the policy will be abolished'. Well, this policy is not going to be abolished. This rhetoric, to be recruited, has no basis and no possibility of applying it. The government is therefore changing the policy we have seen in previous years, with the system of permanent appointments and, ultimately, it is something we must praise for. Ladies and gentlemen, should there be improvements or an amendment to the appointing issue? In my opinion, the Ministry of Education needs to see some issues. I'm leaving the most important one at the end. In particular, it is essential that the recognition of postgraduate degrees should clearly be made clear that we are talking about postgraduate students who have been studying for two years. Because there is an elephant and you must have heard it, Mr Minister, that there are postgraduate degrees of another type. We cannot control more, but have a criterion regarding study time. Second one. At the same time, the positions of general education and special education need to be covered, so that there is no question here and there is no wonder among those teachers who are entitled to appointment. Third one. You should see, Minister, the moleculosis of trittens and polytexts, I tell you that this is important. These families have been tested all these years with the deputys from here and there. So we have to be somewhat more late today. Fourth. It is something that, Minister, I tell you on the grounds of knowledge. There are some teachers who have been justified by justice. They've been refugees and they've been vindicated. It is the basis of the rule of law that, once we have other teachers, in the same category, who, if they had taken refuge - they may not have had the financial means to resort to them, or they may have lost some deadlines, because they did not know them - and they may have been subject to the same rules. There can be no division here. Since some of the same issues have been justified, others in the same category must be justified. And the last thing, Mr Minister, to which I call personally for you to see it and for it to be corrected, is the mobilisation of substitute teachers in difficult schools. They're owed by society. It owes them the political system and the governments over time that they have pushed and operated difficult schools, which would otherwise have closed down. And we need the moleculosis, which they would receive for their classification in the list of alternates, to be given by the government today for their appointment. It is absolutely fair, it is completely constitutional and absolutely honest with these people. You must, Minister, complete this important effort that you have started by seeing these issues that I have raised to you. I think other colleagues have mentioned it. In particular, I should like to stress the issue of the Deputy Professors of Disabled Schools. Ladies and gentlemen, today the government is taking a big step on the issues of education and is implementing what the Prime Minister has repeatedly said that society is entering into a normality. Because it is normal for schools with permanent staff to operate within the framework of the budgetary possibilities of our government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u270	Thank you Mr. Kontonis, MP of SYRIZA. Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Partnership, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately there is a great deal of distance to cover and an overall long-term and visionary planning that will synchronise our educational system with the developed world and boost growth. For a modern quality public higher education, there is obviously a need for synergies. We support the Single Higher Education and Research Area, creating educational poles in each region, so that economies of scale can be achieved. However, the whole process must be subject to serious dialogue and clear strategic planning. What's the plan for mergers this time? There's no plan. The Ministry claims that the purpose of the bill is the overall redesign and a new architecture of higher education. To self-disclosure immediately from the contents of the draft law, which concerns only AEI and TEI, rather than all of them. Neither uniform principles nor a single framework nor a single criteria. The Ministry even says that a one-year consultation has taken place for the preparation of the bill since 2017. And I ask: has there been a debate in the context of the much-advertised 'National Dialogue for Education' that took place just a year and a half ago? What serious country on such a serious issue, such as education, which is national, is sufficient for such consultation when consensus needs to be established and for long-term strategy and planning to be carried out? Serious national issues require serious national dialogue. They're not capable of improvisation. Of course, there have been discussions with the Presidents and oppositions of the institutions. But I am talking about an institutionalised, not private, in any case, dialogue. Because that is not about the social group. And we must now clearly see what the social group is concerned with and what specific interest groups are concerned with. I shall refer to the following - because I have already heard and have been interested in this debate - in specific interest groups. The redesign, as shown in the explanatory statement, started "out of the bottom" to deal with the overlapping of cognitive objects and the spatial dispersion. With a recital of irrationalism, the abolitions and mergers result in a proliferation, thus making both of them worse, that is, overlapping and dispersal. The first "victim" of the bill is multi-substantiated technological and technical education. I'm not talking about a TEI. I'm talking about technological and technical education. Only two years of technical training in public and private IEKs shall be maintained. That's a deterioration. Has there been any study that found that the country does not need technological education? Did we agree? Has there been any dialogue so that we can proceed in this way? I guess not. Has there been any effort by the Government to improve the quality of technological education, which will contribute in practice to strengthening the Greek economy? In the end, what strategy do you propose? You simply choose to upgrade it by 'university'. And that's what it's all about. However, what are we going to do about technological and technical education practically? The question is if there's a plan. There are, at the same time, countless new schools and departments in a variety of cognitive objects, university research centres and institutes, while, of course, in other universities, the Ministry, without sufficient justification, has rejected the proposal to set up academic units. The example of the Agronomic University of Athens and the establishment of the Veterinary School. No study without any academic criterion, multiplying dispersion and overlapping. For example, 10 new sections are being set up in the NRP, including rural development, agri-food and natural resources. Honestly, I didn't understand - because it's my subject - why this kind of department at the ETUC rather than at the Agricultural University? I'm not convinced. At Thessaly University, two additional schools and twenty new departments are set up. Are we going to change the pathogens and bad texts of this country, or are we going to expand them and reproduce them? Because it is one of the pathogens to try to develop unregulated growth, establishing part of every city and village. And we said that in this way neither growth is achieved nor is it sustainable. And, of course, neither university can function academicly, nor large libraries exist to function - as all studies say - a section. And the academic, but also the student staff, wasn't that what they said? Isn't that the reality? What do we have today? Again. Just before the elections, new departments, new schools across Greece, without even any plan. Why here and not there? The university research centre set up in the NRP will comprise seventeen institutes, with very short deserted objects, from nanotechnology and photonics to translation, interpretation and agri-food. Similar university research centres and a large number of institutes are also founded in other universities, finding overlapping. And, of course, as we have repeatedly said, we disagree with the break-up of the country's research web, with the establishment of research centres in universities that will further break down the Single Higher Education and Research Area, as they do not have the institutional framework under which all research centres of the General Secretariat for Research and Technology operate. With what feasibility studies are schools and departments established? Where necessary, they should be established, in two directions: and in a way that is linked to growth and to the market, but where they really need to be compared to the level of education. For many times, indeed, they have nothing to do with the market. But with what investigation? What is needed, for example, - may be needed, but how is it documented? - the establishment of a new Port and Fisheries Management Department in Psachna, where there is no port, and a new Dietology Department and the Trikala Nutrition Department, which was in Carditsa? Why all these changes? I'm trying to understand. Is there any seriousness in all this? Storm of new schools, departments, research centres and institutes! This should be an overall planning that we need, what and in what way, what will be done with higher education, with technological education and where we will allocate the resources. How can one omit the establishment of general departments, irrespective of schools and other departments, for the preparation of programmes and for the award of postgraduate and doctoral degrees? Really, what science? Whatever it looks good, of course, in his board of directors? In other words, while the universities suffer from generalised lawlessness - this is another debate - and the existing university departments are falling apart from a lack of staff today - this is the situation, it is very difficult for anyone who knows it - and they are trying to meet the teaching needs of young scientists, with three years of conventions by the NSR or candidates - I am talking about reality - the government is establishing new schools, departments, research centres and institutes with local and collective criteria. Of course, it's reorganization. Of course, parts should be established where, but with a project, the benefit of the general social group and not the interests of certain groups should be. For the Change Movement, the Single Higher Education and Research Area means substantial synergies, effective networking between universities and research centres. This requires that all research centres be supervised by one authority and governed by the same institutional framework. It means upgraded technological education, effective consultation and long-term strategy. From this policy, of course, we have not even missed secondary education. Who deals with structures and programs? Luxury questions. Others are priorities. After the Greek society was dizzy with the promises to parents and students for easy access as a free system for the EHS every six months, without, in my opinion, having even come up with something credible, you are now coming with your amendment and another matter. Allow me here to make a point about the pan-Hellenic. The pan-Hellenics had secured the imprecise. But they had - and they have - a lot of problems. That is why we should see a system which is more reliable, but not to lose the improper one. I don't think what you're suggesting solves this. In other words, we're going to solve a problem, and we're going to create a bigger one. That is why we have to sit down, with national understanding, and find the new way to enter university. I will return to your amendment and tell you why I disagree. And here the disagreement is not for regulation, but it is essential. Remove the AACC competition and effectively reintroduce the criteria only for pre-service and so-called'social criteria'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u272	And academically.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u273	And academically. Sure. My disagreement is the abolition of the AACC competition as one of the criteria - not the only one - of choice. The appointments and recruitments must be made from single tables on the basis of objective criteria, first with the competition of the AACC and taking into account the pre-service, academic titles and social criteria. Of course, we respect the tens of thousands of deputys who give the battle, serving the education, but also the hundreds of thousands of teachers who have little or no service. I read you what you supported in the committees. You have said so today, Minister. I read from the Minutes. You say that "the written invitation to tender has neither the scientific validity nor the pedagogical validity it must have". I think we should improve some things. I don't agree that the written contest is for flying. "This is why we abolish it and not to treat some," you say, "the pre-service we give so much basis for us, it is also of a scientific character, it does not only have one working character, because the man who is in most time, is a better teacher and we all know that we are improving with the greatest friction." Indeed, we are improving with the greatest friction, which is why the molecules of pre-service are entering. That is why we say that there are pre-service molecules at the same time as the written competition. This does not necessarily mean that it is a better teacher for anyone who has the pre-service. Maybe a young man is a very good teacher. I would like to tell you that all of this does not have a reading. That's why we're telling you that the model should be combined, both with the written competition and the criteria. And, of course, it is also pre-service and educational and social criteria. I saw that you filed it just now in the Minutes. But you understand that our disagreement is fundamental in this respect, because this is basically not how we serve society as a whole. In closing: You are not redesigning the academic map of the country, you are not dealing with the functions of the institutions, you do not, in my view, connect - in the same way as any changes should be made to the real needs of education and the economy. Are there any positive provisions in the bill? There are. But they are completely secondary, in my view, lost in an irrational context. Like setting up a seven-member committee on doctors’ crises, or setting up a Gender Equality Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, education is a national issue and we will not be able to escape the crisis if at least on this issue we cannot come to an agreement. He needs national understanding. Progressive cuts are required in the face of any maintenance that keeps the country's pathogens, and one of the pathogens that are timeless and is expanding today is the establishment of sections without any plan throughout the country. That is what we should serve, because we owe him first of all to the new generation. We owe her the right to dream, with objectivity and justice, which, unfortunately, once again we do not find. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u274	Thank you Mr Thanasis Theocharopoulos, MP of the Democratic Partnership. In Stepa is followed by Anna Karamanlis, Bulgaria II of Athens, New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, Mr Fotakis, for giving me your position. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent days, we have watched a government theater of irrationality, with unprecedented bazaars between the two partners of the government. We have become spectators of a process that shows that some have lost the last trace of dignity and respect. We have found ourselves counting intercurrent cubs of people in love with the chair, watching virtual divorces and "music" Macedonians, in order to get to yesterday's last episode of pragmatism with Mr Kammenos to pretend he is leaving and does not support, since he was first assured that they were found - with what motives, moreover - the willing MPs who are staying and supporting him, who suddenly go beyond their ideological references and are turned into opportune minions of Mr Tsipras' prepared government, who chooses to go forth with a lazy majority, without any political component, with only a common place of passion for the chair, which makes them forget memorial and Macedonia. In this climate of instability and uncertainty you are bringing to the vote a bill that at its core provides for the absorption of the TEI of Thessaly from the University of Thessaly and the absorption of the TEI of Central Greece by the ΕΠΑ, the Agricultural University and the University of Thessaly. Indicate in the explanatory statement that your objective is to substantially upgrade TEIs. The New Democracy believes in the value and strength of technological education, which is why its strengthening is our key priority. When unemployment among young people is robbing, when the country continues to lose momentum - at its most productive stage - towards the outside world, technological education must be a conscious choice for young children rather than the last solution. While the international trend is to strengthen technological education, we are innovative and move in the opposite direction. Step by step you remove it and disappear it from all over the country. And what do you baptize “teaching the TEIs”? Their conceived conversion to universities, with the same cognitive objects and staff, without evaluation, without a structured plan, without feasibility studies, without strictly predetermined academic criteria. The good mill is grinding everything up. This is your patent that merges institutions with a card, without taking into account the multi-quoted ADI which once again disagrees with your handling and determines your method inappropriate. We all understand that you have no special respect for the principle and you hold her a role of devalued parrot. I would remind you, however, that you have legislated to present its view of abolishing a higher education institution. So, we assume you think her point of view is very important, but only when she doesn't spoil your soup. And that is why - obviously - you are trying to manipulate it by proclaiming as a new president to the independent authority a close partner of the Minister. So go on to these synergies by teaching populism and playing the well-known party game to promote customer interests in which you are admittedly diverse. You do it on the bay and on the bay - switch off to make sure you put as many parts in the computer as possible, no matter what these children will do when they are found with an impotent degree in their hands and with no prospect. Have you considered whether the new departments have any impact on the labour market or will they become unemployed? Have you ensured or provided for their professional rights? The whole project is not governed by any clear and transparent logic. On the one hand, you abolish the TEI of Central Greece and absorb it from three different universities and, on the other hand, in the same bill, you institutions that will examine the prospect of a new university in Central Greece. A series of agronomic schools are created. Minister, is there any study of how many geoponns we need as an economy and as a society? What will be their object, for example, and what will the professional rights of his graduates be? For the three Departments of Dietology, is there any academic rationale, apart from the unspeakable argument on the part of the government that it is growing - says - obesity? Due to a lack of dietists, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANELs are increasing? And he supports this a government that left children in schools without trainers, and teachers do it! You set up an Aerospace Department in Evia, in the position of an Aerospace Technology TEC and you wait for the department to function in nine months. With what curriculum and target? Obviously, "seeing and doing". First he'll open the doors to the students and then decide what to teach them! You create a Department of Culture and Creative Instruments at Volos and Department of Intercultural Studies again at Volos. Two sections with obvious overlap in the cognitive object will work side by side. At the same time, you are abolishing the Department of Medical Labs of Larissa, a section that is well-qualified, with a great impact on the preferences of the proposed importers and high absorption on the labour market. Such a section was deemed to be unable to maintain its self-interest. Is there any specific targeting in all of this? Is there a clear stigma coming up? Is there any reformist breath discerned? All we see is that the reorder of the academic map obeys the customer service and the cynic vote. The question also arises from the provision of the transfer of the Antidopting Laboratory of the National Sport Research Centre by the OAS to the "Democritus". The lab operated unresponsively and had WADA's certification. We hope that it is not linked to a possible sale of the OAS, although convincing answers were not in committee. With regard to the system of recruitment and appointment of teachers at primary and secondary level, an issue that touches tens of thousands of families, the need for recruitment in this area is undeniably and widely accepted. The gaps are large and there are also sub-sectors such as the special treatment that needs support. The way in which we appoint ourselves could therefore be a point of convergence and a common place could be found. Unfortunately, however, this provision is extremely problematic. You're bringing in a substitute system for the old year. Propos the pre-service, which clearly has a separate value, but remove the written tender via ASP by vague invoicing scientific and pedagogical reasons. But if you judge the conditions of the competition insufficient, improve them and maintain the contest as a pillar of the recruitment process. Because the competition, apart from being inconsistent with the process, also marks equal opportunities, because it allows each teacher to claim a place in public education. With the new system, young children who do not have a pre-service in public school have no hope of appointment and cannot obtain a pre-service. So you deprive them of the opportunity to claim any chance they might have in a mixed system. In addition, you are dramatically undermining social criteria. We have all received the indignation of special categories, such as a large number of teachers or the LEI teachers, who see the constitutionally guaranteed privileged treatment to be enjoyed in this case and measured at a minimum of moleculosis. Teachers with multiple families or multiple sclerosis teachers lose their programme and along with it are likely to be ridiculed by public education with what this entails. The quota for these specific categories, as is the case in the APA notices, should be self-evident. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the government with another bill creates universities, not least, without any consistency and homogeneity, products of syndicate pressures and micro-political settlements, without prejudice to all the students themselves who can be found under a degree that will prove to be 'empty shirts'. You have your gaze on the pollen trying to save anything, if saved, and you get yourself to your political catechide and the field of education. Fortunately for the country the time of the crisis is high, the time to get rid of a government that is sinking it into a degenerating decline. That is the law and you can be sure that it will also be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u276	Thank you to Mrs Anna Karamanlis, MP in Athens, New Democracy. Mr. Fotakis, Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. A clarification I want to make for Mrs Karamanlis, that the transfer of the anti-doping centre to "Democritu" strengthens his position as an accredited centre.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u278	We're waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u279	Yeah, yeah. It asserts its position as an accredited Wanda centre, because the "Democritus" has corresponding laboratory infrastructures that really upgrade the quality of the analyses carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, two key questions are at the heart of today's debate: what is the role of university education today, particularly in the environment of the memorial age and rapid developments in science and technology? The question is how the landscape should be shaped in higher education, which directions should be taken by scientific research and innovation. The answer to these questions shows that there are fundamental ideological differences in the projections of learning and knowledge towards society and the country's development effort. A view which has been expressed and will be expressed - from what I understand - extensively from a large part of the Antipoliticism closely connects university education with a process of training aimed at vocational rehabilitation. That's very serious. This is where demand plays a dominant role, i.e. the cheques defined by labour market needs, which often have a temporary and fluid character and possible side effects. At the same time, education in itself becomes more mechanistic and mechanistic in contrast to the modern requirement to develop a culture of critical thinking. I would like to stress that the critical thinking is still looking for the market. According to a second point, university education has to be of a broader nature, it must go beyond the limits of mere vocational training, so that vocational training itself can be upgraded qualitatively. University education should also be linked to education and learning, which strengthen society and shape its spiritual horizons. The word 'Academicity', which is contained in this process, is of great importance and unfortunately, it is often ignored. In this respect, a one-dimensional approach based only on demand, according to the temporary needs of the market, would deprive us of significant national reserves. Have we thought about that? For example, humanitarian and social sciences, which are a comparative advantage for the country and are now equally supported by the ELIFE. Should we follow the path of British universities closing schools of philosophy and Greek studies, why does the market not want them? I would like here to present a recent article from GUARDIAN in the Minutes. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Konstantinos Fotakis, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] University education is interlinked with the production of knowledge through free research, which, together with the targeted research carried out in the research bodies of the country, leads to the formation of what we call the "knowledge economy", frees and exploits the excellent scientific potential available to the country, especially young scientists and researchers, the knowledge economy that provides a new development model, creating prospects and inspiration. This university education is being pursued. This is how we envision the new landscape that rises for the country in the memorial era. These objectives are also served by the Legislative interventions of the Ministry of Education. Here are a basic criterion on the map of higher education and scientific research. Do the proposed mergers or divisions lead to added scientific, social and economic value? All three matters. Is scientific quality and the pursuit of excellence promoted? Is the development prospects of the country and its regions upgraded? That is what we need to respond to, and I think that's what this architecture is about. From this point of view, therefore, I think that the leverage achieved by the bill has a positive sign, according to the current data, for the universities and the TEIs involved. I would like to focus now on a number of research issues that are included in the bill. Two are the axes of research policy that we have formulated and implemented. The first is to strengthen research which serves the needs of healthy people - I stress the word of healthy - innovative entrepreneurship and society in general. It is the research that contains the concept of direct utility and produces results relatively soon, supporting the existing economy. On the second axis, often ignored, is research resulting from scientific curiosity, which can also very often, as history has shown, lead to spectacular results in the transformation of society. The actions that we are implementing are directed at both these axes, and I would like to stress that these are not mere words, but they are practically supported and that is because, for the Government, research costs are not costs, they are investment. It is no coincidence, therefore, that these costs are systematically increased in the years of this governance and despite the crisis. According to the latest data from EUROSTAT, in 2017 expenditure on research exceeded EUR 2 billion or 1.13% of GDP, while again according to EUROSTAT - and I would like to submit this in the Minutes - is recent data - the years of molding prosperity before the crisis, as it provides data for 2007, expenditure on research amounted to 1.3 billion, touching 0.58% of GDP. Comparison is irreversible to growth standards at the time. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Constantine Fotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is no coincidence, therefore, that in the last two years, fifty-five new research staff have been created in research centres after ten years of drought, 100 jobs for researchers and fifty-five jobs for scientific staff. It is no accident for those who are talking about investment that, for the first time in time, the annual expenditure of the private research sector has for the second consecutive year a spectacular increase of 30% and is equal to those of the public sector in 2017. In fact, this increase came from the company's own revenues, which shows that these companies invest in the research with a view to the positive prospects for the Greek economy. The second axis of research policy, free research, is promoted by the EMI. ELIDEK is an institution, a kind of independent authority for research, created by zero. It is the work of this government that no one has had in the past. It aims to support free research at the IOIs and research centres and through it to strengthen young scientists, young researchers. The government's determination to achieve the success and sustainability of the project was expressed at the end of last year with additional aid of EUR 60 million from the Public Investment Programme to the ELIFE. A summary of the work carried out in ELIDEK during the first two years of its operation is characteristic. With the valuable help of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology, more than seven thousand research proposals were managed and 111 million were made available to more than a thousand scientists for research in Greek HEIs and research centres. This data is unique in the country's research chronological and is reproduced in the first reversal samples of Brain Drain, already recorded. Clearly, the EMI is creating challenges and clearly there are problems that we did not expect. These are problems due to the suspicion that is usually found in the public sector, either in the new internal elements contained in the ELIDEK, or in the personal ambitions and tactics that abundantly abundant in the academic area. In this context, improvements are made in the procedures followed in order to strengthen the validity of the institution. In particular, Article 35 of the draft law sets out the issues relating to the evaluation process and establishes the thematic, advisory committees, with a view to supporting the work of the members of the ELIDEEC Scientific Council and building conditions of confidence in the evaluation of research proposals. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell is ringing by the Deputy Minister of State at the end of the speech time.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. They shall be followed by arrangements for the research organisations in the country. The establishment, within the framework of the Institute of Petroleum Research and Research in Crete, of the Institute of Petroleum Research in Chania is particularly important. This is a new institute of national scope to carry out targeted research into an energy policy area in the country. The Polytechnic of Chania collaborates for this purpose with FORTH providing facilities for the accommodation of the Institute and initial infrastructure, adding value to the project and providing a brilliant example of the single educational research area. It should be noted that this institute will focus on three main axes: scientific research into techniques for detecting deposits of hydrocarbons and oil production and on the study of the so-called environmental impacts. Other provisions of Article 36 aim to improve the functioning of research centres, such as the introduction of the institutes' plenary session. For the first time, all staff shall participate. All workers in a valid process of information and fermentation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close by pointing out that the bill to be passed represents another serious step in the formation of the country's new academic landscape, a landscape that brings us closer to modern requirements, creates prospects and opportunities for healthy forces that exist and allows us to look forward to the days that come with optimism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u280	Thank you Mr Kostas Fotakis, Deputy Minister of Education for Research and Religious Affairs. Congressman Larissa of the New Republic, George Katsiantonis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the future of higher education. However, what has been said over the last few days is a phenomena of insulting the notion of democracy and parliamentaryism. Everything that we have heard by an oral Prime Minister and members of the government is bad jokes said with pretending to be plausible, but it cannot convince either of us. Everything we have heard about a very important and unique opportunity for our country is nothing but a lasting attempt by the government to convince us of the inconceivable. Ladies and gentlemen of the minority government no longer, the New Democracy does not negotiate values and morals, it does not grant history, it does not sacrifice the past for an uncertain future, it will not contribute to the pattern of the puzzle of tragic memories that will represent the wounds of Greece from the time of your governance. More than the wound to the foundations of history - for which I will come back, since you have decided to bring about the ratification of an agreement on scepticism - you have opened another huge wound to education with the TEI bill under discussion, which, as my colleague and rapporteur of the New Democracy Mr Kellas said, is an anti-educational, anti-productive, anti-developmental, anti-social and without a trace of motives. And since I am referring to incentives, I would like to start by saying that Denmark as a country pays 1,000 euros for each student to study. While you instead of strengthening them in any material way to stay in their place and study, you lead them to find the way to go anywhere else - I would say - in case they find better luck. So we are here to discuss the dismantling of the country's TEIs. Basically, the whole society's shoulder to the fact that you're aiming to destroy tertiary education. A lot has been heard and debated in the committees over the past few days at the point where you have distorted the words and writings of the competent authorities, as did the falsification of the opinion of the Republican Authority of the Thessaly, which you said was in agreement with everything. But you have, of course, forgotten to fill out under what conditions, ignoring of course his objections and disagreements. You also ignored the rectangular principle of the Central Greece TEI, which, through its President, strongly expressed its disagreement with the changes you are trying to make, to a point of denouncing the indulgence of the TEIs. With a cherry in the cake, of course, his grim finding that no evaluations had taken place and that good external evaluations were taken into account. The city council of Larissa has reached a point to freeze the whole project. With this and other things, I try to imagine the background to every draft law you bring, since surprises never stop. And it's true that you're so inconvenient and hasty that you don't keep any pretexts and guys. That is what you are proving to us, Minister, in the case of your advisor, Mr Kyprianou, that is what the whole bill has been prepared for, who resigned overnight, with your own agreement, of course, it seems. And the next day, you who do your utmost to fight corruption, strife and emulate the rule of law and independence of the authorities, plant it in the Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in Higher Education. In simple terms, that is to say, from one day to the next, you show us clearly and provocatively how unequivocally you are trying to control an independent authority by putting head of the Minister's PPP. And, of course, we must not forget that this independent principle has been repeatedly 'twisted' and devalued by delegating responsibilities and undermining its work. But how time brings them and things change! In conclusion to the bill under discussion and the future of our country's higher education, I will dwell on something that I have read recently and created very negative feelings for me. I am referring to the detailed study of the Foundation for Economic and Industrial Research, which does not go far enough and does not end up with the sad finding that in this country the super-institutions you are building will be empty and desert, since soon Greece will simply have no students. Do you ultimately aim there to achieve this objective of free access to universities and yet it will arise because of the demographic collapse that threatens the country. In particular, this study concludes that, over a decade, we will see the number of graduates in the country's highest institutions falling by 30% due to the demographic problem. So instead of planning the future of higher education with a long-term educational policy plan, you just put the beans down for the next 12 months without any interest in what will be done in the future to deal with these problems before they are created. In fact, the conclusions of this universal study are so frustrating, since it is stated that soon there will be no corresponding population of candidates to claim the places offered in the country's higher education, so that strategies must be designed by means of undergraduate programmes in English, which will attract Greek HEIs from abroad that will provide them with additional resources. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a minute, Mr. President. Higher education in the country continues to form predominantly candidates claiming posts in the public sector or in education, which in the coming years are expected to shrink. The country's TEIs have been abolished, while in recent years those institutions which, due to the applied nature of the courses have given degrees with immediate professional rehabilitation. And all of this, while the disciple's population has declined significantly since in recent years, due to the deep crisis, some ninety thousand students left our country. This, together with the fact of the demographic problem and the reduction of births by approximately 30%, has intensified the problem, the consequences of which will immediately be apparent in the coming years, since fewer pupils will be introduced into education each year compared with those who complete and leave. It is worth stressing the conclusion of the study on the closure of higher education institutions. It mentions that, instead of closing down the educational institutions, as you do in this bill, we must invest directly in their internationalisation and attracting foreign students. This is because local societies and markets will be stimulated and the national economy will be substantially strengthened, since jobs for young scientists will increase and resist the trend of fleeing from abroad. But you are finally choosing to act on the basis of party criteria. You are looking to help people and create new financial obligations to the detriment of the Greek budget, which will ultimately be charged to Greek taxpayers. And all this without any reflection, no plan, no prospect, no future for Greece. That's who you are. Instead of seeing tertiary education as a lever for the country's development, you condemn it by leading it to end up the last wheel of the carriage. And believe me, gentlemen of the minority government, I very much fear that on this stage the Greek people will send you very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u282	Thank you Mr Georgios Katsiantoni, MP in the New Democracy. Next, Mr. Andreas Koutsoubas, Member of the Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting is the first after the fresh artificial vote of confidence by the government yesterday, of course not having the people's confidence. Before I go any further, because the procedure provided for in the vote of confidence did not give the right to all Members of Parliament, I would like to tell you from this step by further addressing - I do not know if you are feeling this need - to young people and to younger generations, to our children - we have big children, students - that I am really sad about what has been going on in the Greek political scene, in the House, and to ask for a public apologies and to convey the message that we are not all the same, because this political fair we have seen these days does not express us. Despite the devaluation of politics, despite the disdaining of the political system in which we all wanted to contribute for better, there are MPs, the majority that we will try, we will strengthen our voice in order to upgrade Parliament's prestige, but also the prestige of the political system. And, of course, the society that was suspicious of all this was confirmed after these tacticalisms. And I'd like to be clear. I am not one of those who will blame why these moves were made or why the government took a vote of confidence. They have always been in the political scenery - always, in every government or every party, respectively - if they had ideological orientation or programming. So in this particular case, I think that the New Democracy position has been confirmed that all this was a political bargain and that is why our youth is flouting, blames us. We have an obligation to safeguard Parliament's prestige for the sake of parliamentarianism, for the sake of democracy. I now come to the bill under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I could say that this bill, at first glance, is moving in the right direction, has a goal. But let me say, after all that we have heard in the committees by the bodies, after the position of colleagues and on the part of the Collapsation that your action was a sketchy act, it was not well planned and you go ahead with some methods for higher education, without having a strategic plan or through this bill you are contradicting the so-called strategic planning that you may have. What are you doing with this bill? The customer policy of the serial merger of TEI with summary procedures continues without the need for this regularity and, in particular, the apparent abolition of the higher education technology sector, rather than upgrading it, has not been substantiated by its particular nature and mission. Schools and departments are established with many cognitive objects, without forming part of a strategic planning. The tactics of the creation of isolated geographical sections and schools, without creating a better academic environment, continue. It does not specify how to find and strengthen them with human and financial resources. And of course, the main thing that everyone has said - and on the part of the Com mittee on Culture, I think - is that there is a confusion with the curriculum of the relevant schools. The question that holds us and has to hold everyone in this Chamber, since I think that the New Democracy has proved in its attitude all along this time, over time when it was opposition, that when it was about education, whatever legislation it was, and in the provisions that were in the right direction, it was always saying 'yes' - I think that today we will say 'yes' to these provisions, regardless of the principle of how to plan the redistribution of the academic map - and we are asked by youth is: What universities do we want? Do we want more universities or better universities? Do we need other universities as well? In this respect, the bill could say that it has one direction, one better. But I said he contradicts the bill itself. The question that comes in, however, is that if we have as a basic principle - and you have said so not in your programming speech, the Prime Minister has said so, the relevant finance ministers have said so - that we need to link education to production and the economy. Do you see a connection like this? I will not move through localistic perceptions, I will not say why in Boeotia or Thebe or in Livada you do not do another school. I am not one of those who embrace the doctrine "every city and stage, every village and gym". Oh, no. This is at the expense of the Greek people, at the expense of the Greek society, at the expense of the Greek economy. We want better universities. If it can be a University of Central Greece, when judged through necessity and sustainability, we do so. I do not ask for it in the sense that the services are not yet ready to tell us that, but I think that when I have these TEIs that were also the University of Central Greece based in Lamia, all three departments, you share them in the Agronomic, EKT and Thessaly, and you want the Geoponic to upgrade it, without actually moving from a localistic perspective, if you really want to connect production to the economy, to make better farmers, then to make better students and then businessmen, because the rural and national economy - I say it is also about my Government, and for the one who comes to the province, the farmers, the Kopaidas, Lamia, where you want it. And I'm saying more, and I've been stressing it for years - I've been saying since 1994 when I first went down to the political track as a nomadic candidate - that the Agricultural University has to go to Kopaida, where it has private land, has buildings, owns the Agricultural University in Aliarto, if you really want to make an upgrade of the academic map and offer something more to education and generally to the place. In closing, the academic bill is iso-population, administratively it will prove non-functional. I sincerely despise it. And as a citizen and as a politician I want it to work, because above all I am a Greek, I am a Member of the Greek Parliament, and I want my country to go for the better. But I think it does not solve problems, but it also creates other additives. In this sense, we are voting against it in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr Andreas Koutsoubas, MP of the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of thirty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd High School Trikala (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We inform the students that they are attending a parliamentary work session. We are discussing a bill from the Ministry of Education. It is expected that the vote will take place at night and become a state law. Changed Members of the Coupling and Reconciliation at the Step and speaking for seven minutes. Mr Kyriazidis will now speak. Here you go, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday I lived at times that I did not want, as a parliamentary representative of a place that suffered the pandemic, coming from the witness Drama. But, unfortunately, I felt very bad and I am honestly ashamed, as Greek and Macedonian, of the illusion that all these years of the crisis could lead together to important issues relating to the country, that there should be a common direction and understanding. Unfortunately, there's no such thing as disloyalty. Like today for a bill dealing with a national issue, education, there is a confusion, a humiliation, a triumph, an attempt to create a system as a system of bricks and horns that are very perverse. I followed the work of the committees, but also in the plenary of these merger procedures of the Epirus TEI, now Thessaly, with the feeling that the strong minister, the academic professor who has studied and outside, would at least have intended to have a stable education. Because a country without a stable system of education, health, economics, security has no future. I have therefore followed all these procedures in order to deal with the third wave of mergers that is coming to Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. It is indeed another version, ladies and gentlemen, and I will tell you later. Every new bill of this content is another version. The project promoted for eastern Macedonia and Thrace, the merger, as clearly demonstrated by the Ministry of Education, excludes the Democritus University and integrates the Eastern Macedonia TEIs into the International University. As the Minister has said, a committee was set up, and in such a way I have promised that the work of these committees is about the academic community and is a job of its own. However, the committee set up was of its own exclusive choice, excluding any representative from the Democritus University in which they belong, nominating their own members exclusively. And of course why did this happen? This was all done in order to reach a conclusion of his own without any procedure. This work of the committee has been completed and, unfortunately, I expect that it will happen, rather than proper parliamentary commitments, as he has committed himself - and I will table this commitment in the minutes - that there would be a debate between the involved bodies and the Democrat University, for incomprehensible reasons for me there was no dialogue. On the contrary, we saw the Prime Minister's announcements. The decisions were taken in the absence of all. Without a clear design and strategy, unfortunately, the implementation of a defective plan for the partnership of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace with the International University is completely arbitrary and challenging. While all reasonable people would expect, of course, for us, because we do not adopt this position, the final proposal to include the partnership, the association of TEIs with the Democrat University did not happen. After all, this is why the resignation of the chairman of the board of directors of the International University, that is, the English-speaking Kostas Giovanni. This is unfortunately the situation. And we have been informed out of court, after consulting the Minister with the SYRIZA MPs in the region, excluding the other MPs and bodies, the creation of thirty-two departments in six cities without experience of support and adequate staffing such a difficult, truly complex model. Note that the International English-speaking University has, as I am aware, a minimum number of LAG members and a mere postgraduate courses, which proves the mortal, but also the sloppiness of the whole project, which is based on a falsification, without a substantial assessment of the upgrades of the participating institutions. In relation to the planned bill in the absence of a sufficient number of IPA members, how can they operate more than ten sections in Kavala and Drama with less than seventy IPA members? As far as Drama specifically is concerned, it is all fifteen and all the ICP members for six, as they say and plan, sections without any study, safeguarding infrastructure, funding and all of this. All this because? Article 34 of the Bill refers to the creation of an Academic Education and Research Council in the Region of Central Greece, in order to proceed with the creation of an autonomous higher education institution. The report and the studies on the sustainability of all of this will be completed by 31/12-20. So why didn't that happen to Epirus? Why does it not happen in the region of Macedonia and Thrace so that, Mr President, there is indeed a viable autonomous higher education institution, in order to avoid what is being attempted for electoral reasons, a degree-based industry but, unfortunately, a degree-based industry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr Kyriazides, MP Drama of the New Democracy. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Constantine Javarra has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Minister, you have indeed once again taken us into consideration, not so much with the clarifications and references that, unfortunately, you have not made of the arrangements you have brought to the House to discuss and vote on, but with the exclusion to which you have condemned New Democracy and its Members from this new spirit of understanding. In fact, I have kept the words you have used, 'you of the New Democracy have a structural weakness in understanding the new political culture'. Truly, this new political culture is a fresh product for the political things of this place, or is it the traditionally renewed, two centuries-old political culture of a left who has been desperately and desperately trying to find a sustainable way out of the future? It is, I mean, the inability of the minds of each of us to understand the level of speech that is expressed in this House, or is a total flaw in the ability or inability to have a political party, which is currently an actor of liberalism in Greece and has the role of Officer of Representation at the National Representation. Because I consider you to be an exquisite scientist, a man of knowledge and a man who has served academic freedom for many years, I will not allow myself to deal with such a humble approach to the content and meaning of the words that have left your lips. Perhaps the words you used to be afraid of your lips have also been used, but I, unfortunately, am not afraid of them and I will tell you why. For what you said, it is nothing but the repetition of the words that the Prime Minister told the Chief of Police yesterday, when he said to him, "but at last, Mr Mitsotakis, you do not speak with arguments". And we expected to hear from this roped monologue here without limits of the Prime Minister what the arguments are, that we too should learn to understand. We have tried to understand what the arguments that lead the SYRIZA to make all these unprecedented concessions, not only in national matters, but also in matters relating to the institutions and to matters relating to democracy and today to matters that at least you should know better than anyone else. And I ask you: what is the concept of the Left and you personally about the university of the future? Tell me - and also Mr Folakos who followed you - what provision this bill says that this university we are envisioning must at least satisfy certain conditions, because, Minister, since 1998, I have said so once again - since this periodic lecture by Zak Derida on the unintentional university has been heard, since then all Europe has been struggling to see what the conditions of the organisation of a university in which it should be organised in such a way that it respects the economic, fair and ethical conditions that define and govern academic teaching in the area where academic research is carried out and scientific knowledge is being carried out. You, instead of all this, bring us one, as you say,'reform' of the architecture of the university field or generally of the university field of higher education. Are we really looking to find out about the new university or new functions or new activities or new ways through which teaching and research will pass? What, obviously, - and here you underestimate the New Democracy - you are not aware of is that from you especially Greece expects to tell her how the university will become a place of freedom, in the sense of the absolute exercise of criticism and in the sense of the promotion and transmission of university knowledge, through academic teaching and scientific research. That's why you're not telling us anything and I'm sorry. And here you will allow me, as it has been said, to tell you that for my own reason, the limited ability to understand your culture of university, politics, morality, what impresses me is that while you are a teacher, from what I have seen in your curriculum, the methodology of science, science, the history of science and its ideas, you ignore the teaching of a very great wisdom, of Gaston Baslar, who has given humanity, without saying a left, even though he started by an official in French postal, it has said that there is a huge contradiction between the common sense and the spirit of science. The university spirit must transcend the common sense, make the necessary deductions, remain unreasonable to claim the syndicate interests and the demands of self-government, in the sense of, of course, the service of certain specific requirements relating to the operation of focus operations or anything else. So this is the scientific spirit that must have its territory in the university of the future and not the common sense, which you serve in its most left-wing version. That is why you will allow me here to tell you that this bill, if you are really honouring your mission as a scientist, as a university teacher and as a politician that the New Democracy is demanding to monitor the new culture of politics that you bring in this Chamber, you must get it back. I will also tell you two - three points in which the most ordinary citizen in this country is now reacting and is revolting. Do something that is unacceptable both from the case-law of the Council of State and from Article 16 of the Constitution. Remove institutions of the higher education of the technology sector and what remains you say is that you join the university institutions of Athens, Thessaly and the Agronomic University. Really, what you incorporate, their ruins, their institutions? How do you ultimately explain the fact that where these technological institutions are abolished goes and occupied by three university institutions, the Agricultural Institute and the NRP, for example, in the Evia Fishery? How do you justify this and how do you substantiate it? Because tomorrow when someone goes to the Council of State, especially for that reason the Scientific Committee tells you, a special documentation is needed. This documentation you have not taken from the reports of at least the Independent University Quality Assurance Authority, which you are obliged to consult as a state. So this tomorrow will be your great structural weakness, defending this legislative artifact you are bringing today. One more thing. I want you to explain to me how it is possible in Evia, where a TEI actually operates, which has a campus jealous, where there are thousands of students, and where so far, during the decades of scientific teaching there, there have been scientists of technology in specific cognitive objects, you go there and set up a school called 'Agricultural Development, Sustainable Sustainability and Food'? Where did you start to do this? Is it from the fact that the former Minister for Rural Development is from there? Because I have no reason to join your own way of understanding things. And I'll ask you something else. How is it possible to set up a university school called "Agrarian Development" and not connect it to the Agricultural University, but connect it to the NRP, the National Kapodistrian University of Athens? Is this a precedent for scientific and academic research in rural development? Something else, too. Here in Greece, thank God, we have campus. We have Thessaly, we have Elias. In Elias, at least, from which I come, we have 800 thousand acres of irrigated land, which no one has yet seen from the state has seen under the light of scientific and technological research. And you go and do an Agronomic University in the middle of nowhere? Also, do you go and create a school dealing with port management, when there is nothing in this place linking local society, the local economy, to this object? And now, do you want to say, 'Good luck, congratulations, have you succeeded'? I am glad, of course, that it comes with the West, in the twilight of this government, which, as has been said yesterday, is a minority. At least, when listening to the parliamentary representative of the Officerial Representation, you should indeed be more reluctant, more contemptuous of what you are going to do, for which you will be proud. Well, no, no. It's not possible. And I'm going to tell you something, and I'm going to finish, Mr. President. As a parliamentarian, I have had the opportunity to visit children’s teaching rooms in need of special education. There, indeed, I have felt awe, admiration unlimited to these teachers who have taken the burden of special treatment of children with disabilities. And you today, with this bill, instead of telling them specifically who have a pre-service that one year should count for two, you can regulate and say that you are transferring a general education service from graduates who may have taken from a university of opportunity a special education paper and give them the right to come here and with the "objectives" and the "fair" criteria you are telling us, to go further in front of those who have given their souls and their lives to the service of such serious work. Hey, no! And something else and I'm done. I have already heard Mr Fotakis saying that there is nothing to do with teaching on the market and that these are issues which are the ideologies of the New Democracy. Explain to me. You have rules in Article 25 and you have next in this bill talking about the Pallemnian Fund. You're making this a public legal person. In fact, one would say, in a story that starts from the Palaiologos era, Dimitrios Palaiologos, who in 1363 gave the property of the shareholders of the Monastery of Saint Paul, in order to cultivate it and from there to earn incomes from the inhabitants of Lemnos and, with this, fund their educational and cultural activities, you now give Article 28 or 29 the right, in cooperation with other public or private bodies, to create and establish companies that are not profitable, and you refer to Articles 741 to 784 of the Civil Code. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Did you happen to read these articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Javarra, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u289	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u290	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u291	Take a look at Article 784 and there you will see that any company governed by civil law claims or aims at a financial purpose, as it is, of course, because it will have the object of exploiting this property, gaining legal personality and, of course, being liable as commercial personal companies. Oh, well, thank goodness! At some point you should speak simply, understandably and especially with the usual meaning of the words used by all Greeks in this place, not to tell you that there are some from New Democracy and in New Democracy, which fortunately have become guardians - and are struggling for it - of the correct meaning of words. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister Merope Jufi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u294	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u295	First of all, a request to the speakers to be a little lower. We'll ask for an unhealthy allowance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u296	It's not a question of talking. I think the tension has gone up in the machines for days.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u297	All right, then do we do something with the machines? The second is that I'm not going to comment on what Mr. Javarras said, who spoke about poor universities where they get cardboard, postgraduate?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u298	Not for postgraduate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u299	What did you say? Great universities, that's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u300	I said about those who rush to the alien.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u301	No, you didn't. The word 'foreigner' has not been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u302	For postgraduate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u303	For postgraduate. So, the public universities are weak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u304	Please, I didn't say about postgraduate. I know what I'm saying. So far I know what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u305	But that's not what I wanted to ask. I wanted to ask you this and I would like a very clear answer: did you say'removing the bill'?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u306	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u307	You have every right to say it. What I want to clarify is whether it is the official position of the New Democracy. That's what I want. It's so simple. Because you said to withdraw the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u308	To change.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u309	No, the Greek words, as Mr Javarras said, are a rich language. Mr. Javarras said to withdraw the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u310	When we vote against, what do we mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u311	When you vote against, it's different. I ask: Withdrawal of the bill? It has every right as a Member to say so, I really do not question it, what I want to know quite clearly is whether it is a New Democracy position. So simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u312	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u314	What exactly do you want to do, comment or talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u315	A comment on what Mr Javarras said. He's really right. I spoke in a way that may not be understood at all. You completely misunderstood what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u316	Madam Minister, you can speak now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u317	Can I talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u318	You want to talk now, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u319	But if the Minister asks me. It's disrespectful to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u320	I shouldn't have called the Minister. Sitting in Stepma now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u321	I'm sorry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u322	Is it over and then say what you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u323	Please, with unlimited respect for the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u324	Good. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, I would like you to give me some more time. I don't know how much time you'll give me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u326	Nine minutes is your time, but there will be comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u328	Excuse me, Minister. Explain what you want, Mr. Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u329	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative spoke, then Minister, then the other Minister again. What happens, the MPs won't talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u330	But it's a list. The directory is here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u331	Yes, but Members should also speak in the intervening period and change. It's not like that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u332	Do you want me to go down, Mr. Screka? I'd love to, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u333	No, I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about the follow-up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u334	You're right. I just found the list of the Minister's request, and I didn't think I had to change it. Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, I want your understanding, because I want to talk about both the bill and the amendment, namely recruitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u336	You'll have it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u337	And I would like you to give me some time to talk about the part of the social criteria too, to clarify a few things. I did not ask for the floor in advance. So I start by saying that today we are legislating with the confidence of the House in our Government and I think I would expect greater courage for the acceptance of yesterday's parliamentary defeat. So we continue to complete the government's work with interventions in favour of the social majority and with progressive institutional areas, such as the current one. The core of the confrontation, regardless of what Mr Javaras said, is the dividing line between the New Democracy and its allies, which is the leadership of Potami and KINAL, for the role of the social state and more specifically for education, for the publicity and the role of the school, but especially for the future of the public university, which, despite his conclusion and yesterday, records brilliant performance with his graduates and researchers, as stated internationally. This bill, like the previous ones, shows the constant effort made by our Government to provide substantial support for education at all levels. Despite the fact that we have been convicted of going through the bill, that is not true. There has also been an extensive fruitful dialogue with the parties who are here today saying that they are voting against both the institutions and the society and we have taken very seriously into account and a number of issues that have been raised in the public consultation, so today the amendment that is tabled, as you know, compared with the previous one has changed. We therefore consult, hear, propose and co-decide. The part of higher education and research support is indeed a priority, not only of the Ministry, but also of the government and of the country. So after ten years of subsistence, sub-financing, administrative experiments, we are making every effort to reverse this situation, obviously initially to stabilise and then strengthen this effort and, above all, to maintain what we are creating in the single European educational area, which is changing rapidly and rapidly. What have we done at this time of our power in financially unfavourable conditions, within a Memorandum of Understanding, from which we have recently come out? We have shown signs of writing with the increase in funding, which this year is about 3% of GDP, when the previous governments, who wanted to support it, had reduced the funds by 34%, and in the medium term of the New Democracy and PASOK, the forecast for this year was at 1.9% of GDP. We sponsored the universities with 41 million and complement those institutions that start and implement their association, such as the University of Ioannina, the Ioannian University, the PADA, so that the overall modulation of our Ministry's budget for 2019 is the largest of the last six years. In addition, as Mr Fotakis said, they have doubled - and there is no question - expenditure on research and innovation, and a new action for EUR 45 million has recently been announced in order to strengthen research in the remote and island regions of the country. We have anticipated and implemented, even though the MAGP has issued a communication to create impressions, staffing with five hundred LAG members, while another five hundred recruitments are under way and it is the responsibility of the universities to proceed with their duties. We have created three thousand seven hundred new positions of scientific staff, with improved working conditions and resources of more than EUR 240 million, aiming at the use of new researchers. That is why Mr Fotakis has spoken before about an up-to-date reversal of Brain Drain. And we are talking from 1-1-2019 about the critical reinstatement of the rule 'a departure - an intake', which is very important for all levels of education. We streamlined the financial management of research programmes and of postgraduate programmes, providing extra grants to those universities with free postgraduate degrees. Many reliable higher institutions have free postgraduate institutions and we have ensured with conflict in this area that 30% of the children who will attend these postgraduate institutions who have tuition fees and which we have downloaded will be one of the financially weak, since they have academic performance. For the part of student care, we covered 48m euros of the housing needs of the students who needed it. It's the largest amount of the last four years. Of course, we still have a lot to do in this direction. EUR 58.8 million was paid for the supply of university writings, as well, the largest amount of the last four years. EUR 20 million for INEDIBIM was provided to cover the costs of feeding, cleaning and addressing the needs of the students’ studies at all universities, while postgraduate and postdoctoral scholarships were also increased with the help of the State Scholarship Foundation. Is everything pomegranate? Of course not. Obviously, there is much more scope for improvement and for issues to be addressed. But the conscious withdrawal of the state from the funding of higher education, with the over time responsibility of the previous governments, the division, overlapping, overlapping, the reduced use of research results, the geographical isolation of the institutions, which had created a distorted and regulated framework of operation on which, unfortunately, we are called upon to legislate. That's why not everything is excellent academic, but it's with the coordinates of academic institutions and after long consultation. In this direction we intend to move. The reason for this is because architecture, which exists, provides synergies at central and regional level, coordination, involvement of local societies, extroversion actions, the creation of new sections, so that they can become multi-powered institutions that can develop a central educational and research role. Are we the only example? The answer is no. International experience confirms this position, as similar reforms have taken place in a number of European countries, such as Austria, Denmark, Norway and England. And so far, this type of operation has been successfully completed. I referred to the committees in the announcement of the dean of the University of Ioannina and how coordinates we proceed in this direction. In the same way, the new proposals, which we are now about to legislate on, will also be in the same way, since they include university research centres, technological parks, two-year programmes of study, which are very crucial to the graduates of vocational education, for which - to reply to Mr Theocharopoulos - there is a strategic planning in 2016, what we want to do about vocational training. We give the right of children graduating from vocational schools to enter higher education institutions with an increased rate, but at the same time free of charge to these two-year programmes that we put under the aegis of new university institutions to acquire level 5 professional diplomas in direct interconnection with local communities and local entrepreneurship. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm going to need some more time. Allow me to refer more specifically to the political stance of the Civilian Opposition Officer. Yesterday, the Chief of New Democracy and the Chief of Potamio actually told us that higher education institutions either are a centre of lawlessness and drug trafficking or do not actually have a place on the world map. So in this way and with all this talk they are trying to stain the ground for the coming of private universities. But that, as one knows, will not be done, because our view is that we should continue without rotation in the direction of strengthening - and I said some measures, we may say much more - of higher education institutions. The Greek society is with us. The public and free university is trusted over time. Despite his problems, she invests in introducing her children into them. This position is confirmed. During the time of the crisis and despite the phenomenon of Brain drain, which was created by the deadlocks created by you, Greek universities are constantly being strengthened at the level of students. According to ELSTAT's data, between 2011 and 2016, undergraduate students increased by thirty - six thousand, postgraduate students by twenty - one thousand, while candidate doctorates by ten thousand. Also significantly improved the proportion of students in all study cycles successfully graduated per year, while the European design it says to achieve high levels of integration of higher education 40% by 2020 is a percentage that our country has already achieved. Therefore, there is all that potential to benefit significantly from the results of higher education. Of course, this can help social mobility, which education can bring about. Moreover, it is one of the main components of the culture of the Greek state since its establishment to date. We will therefore continue in this direction. I come to the question of the recruitment system. There's been a lot of talk. We think it's very important. After ten years of adoration, in fact, our educational system was hard tested in the memorial times. It is not just that no appointments have been made, it is not just that the withdrawal-recruitment ratio has been frozen - here, I would remind you that the New Democracy is again talking about reintroducing the 'one to five' rule - the number of primary and secondary education has fallen by sixty thousand with the thirty thousand retiring. In this particular context, the need to keep this system up has come with the help of assistant teachers to meet these very great needs. The only exception since 2015 has been the recruitment of four hundred fifty nominated teachers since the 2008 competition and a hundred more so due to judicial decisions. We therefore consider that the moment is particularly critical, because it speaks of a three-year plan of appointment of fifteen thousand permanent teachers to stabilise the educational system, but even six hundred teachers who are successful and unappointed by the 2008 ADP. And we are starting from a very sensitive area of special education and training, but, ladies and gentlemen, it has been neglected over time by the policies of the previous governments. It had never been conducted all these years as an AAP for special treatment. He has only three thousand five hundred forty - six permanent scientists serving her. Only 20% of teachers are permanent. The remaining 80% are substitutes and up-to-date. One understands what great difficulties exist when we have a great deal of needs in special education, where we have an exponential increase in children looking for these services, primarily within the public school. So in 2015 we had sixty thousand children. Now, we've got over ninety thousand kids. We have made a great and agonizing effort with all the financial instruments to be able to have that scientific potential to support them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u338	Madam Minister, you must finish. We're in fourteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u339	Sure. Okay. I will finish, although I could say much more, with the social criteria. The government was accused of closing the eye on various groups. The moleculosis, which is provided for in the system we are proposing, is precisely what it does not do. He doesn't close his eye on any social group. He doesn't propose social groups. It modulates according to needs. In the part of vulnerable social groups, apart from people who have more children, there are other categories. We've got the part of the disability. What did we do? In view of the issue of child moleulation, we have brought it up from the proposed moleculosis. Of course, we know that this is not the way to solve the demographic problem in the country. We know very well that basically the one to be subsidised, assisted with nurseries, licenses, direct access to pre-school education, with accessibility to health services...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u340	Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u341	Of course, I'll finish. ...is the family with one or two children. So we mobilize every child the family has. And the disability section - because it was said here before, and I want to answer - what we are doing is...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u342	Madam Minister, let go. You'll get the floor again later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u343	All right, I'll get this over with. I shall conclude, Mr President. I have not taken the floor before, and several issues have been raised. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u344	But the Minister has taken the floor, and he has spoken half an hour!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u345	I shall conclude, Mr President, since you are so persistent. I shall refer to disability. In practice, what is being done is that we accept the request to mobilise the disability more than 50%, with a factor that will multiply by the degree of functional incapacity, regardless of the underlying illness. And I think that is too fair for all vulnerable social groups. We are still mobilizing people with disabilities and also the parents of children with disabilities. So I think it is a fair approach. And I will stop here because I have indeed exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u346	Mr Karastasis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u348	It's my omission. Excuse me, Mr. Karanastasis. Mr. Javarras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u349	I apologise to the colleague. But there are still, and I do not want them to remain unanswered, the questions raised by the Minister, whom I respect and, above all, I welcome his institutional role. Minister, you may not have fully understood in this Chamber, not for a lack of structural weakness, that a tradition continues. And this tradition is the tradition of the oral word, which began by the general conventions, the national conventions, the editorial assemblies of the French Revolution. There, therefore, the word was oral and was produced before him to whom he was addressing him in order to be able to reply. That is the spirit of parliamentary democracy. The tone or the intensity of the voice obeys another logic described by Cicero in a very interesting book called 'De oratore'. So I would like to donate this to you to see that anyone who appears in the Step of the House and does not read prefabricated words, which he does not believe but simply indicts them, cannot understand what it means for the moment when the speech is produced, the oral, the democratic, the notion of lectio, the actio and the inventio. I think you know very well Latin. Let's go to the second issue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u350	Mr Javarra, an answer was to be given. If it's going to be a second speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u351	What is this now, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u352	You're scaring us, you're not giving us the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u353	Please, gentlemen! Please, finally. It's not a club! It's not a cafeteria, it's for SYRIZA's use! Stop it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u354	Respect the MPs too!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u355	Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u356	Do I have a right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u357	What do you want? Can you run? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u358	I am using my right as a Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. I would ask the gentlemen to respect the unlimited right to the answer given by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u359	Let me run. I would ask you, however, because it is also my colleague in Stepha, to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u360	So the Minister asked me if I insist on the withdrawal of the bill. I insist that all those provisions should be withdrawn, which are not relevant to the organisation of the landscape of university higher education in such a way as to meet the challenges and requirements of this and of the future, as I described in my speech. Secondly, the State Secretary said yesterday that the New Democracy was defeated. Parliament's democracy was defeated, because Greece as a new Greek state, as a new state after 1832 for the first time since Dimitrios Vulgaris or Jube, has and currently has a parliamentary minority government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u361	Mr President, I would like the floor for some clarification. Excuse me, really, Mr. Karanastasis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u362	Minister, he has given clarification. Mr. Javarras answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u363	No, let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u364	Mr President, is there now going to be a dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u365	No, it's not a question of dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u366	Mr President, I should like to speak to my colleague in the House. That does not show respect to the Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u367	Seems to me, you're all very virtuous today!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u368	If you let me go, I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u369	Please, what are we doing here? Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u370	The question I would like to answer is whether the New Democracy - not you personally, I have nothing to split up with with you, that was the question - wants to withdraw the entire bill as you said here, or the completely different one you said there in terms of the provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u371	Greek, do you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u372	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u373	You have a structural weakness of understanding. I'm sorry! Let this be written in the Minutes, because we have now inspired it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u374	I don't understand what we're doing. Minister, if you'll excuse me and respectfully ask if he wants to withdraw the bill and he said that we're asking for provisions to be withdrawn. What else do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u375	I'll tell you what I want. Is that the position of the New Democracy? Because the rapporteur for the New Democracy has not even hinted on it. We therefore want to know so that we too can see how to argue. It makes sense, doesn't it? That makes sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u376	The assignments he wants. Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u377	Mr. Javarra, I honestly tell you, please tell you two lines. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u378	Mr President, our rapporteur voted against the bill. I, therefore, specialised, with what I said in my speech, what exactly is the attitude of both the New Democracy and my own. As the Minister obviously has in mind what we are saying, the art of always right, which demands that he has the advantage of winning if he succeeds in making his opponent publicly aware of something that he is contrary to public opinion - that is something that comes from the German teaching of the Sopenhower - I say to him clearly: for the amendments we have taken a position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u379	Yes, that's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u380	For this particular bill on which I have accused you politically, I also insist that this is my position and that of my party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u381	Good, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building, how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the ELLIOS VENIZELOS Hall, twenty-three students and students and three teachers from the High School of Echolia Trikala. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Karastasis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u382	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that after yesterday's vote I cannot understand the Vice-Presidents. They cannot understand that in a vote where the government receives the support of the House, each Member has the opportunity, he is free to vote on what he currently considers necessary and useful for Hellenism, for the Greek Parliament and also for the world. I will begin differently on the architecture of higher education and what good New Democracy did at some point! I will say a simple example of how research centres were operating during their governance. On 9-10-2014, when the government had almost fallen - they created with the National Board of Research and Technology about ten - twelve research centres across Greece. And they founded - because there was a reference made by my colleague and friend Christos Stakoura - to Lamia a network of innovation and entrepreneurship, the ERCF. So, with the same composition on 13-2-15, right after that, the same Council, the National Research and Technology Council, what did it decide? The ETUC had agreed at a previous meeting, first of all, on the establishment. However, it states a reservation on content and structure, that is why certain institutes were set up, because there were no sustainability and feasibility studies. So you understand, and I want to show a simple example of how the New Democracy was then going through bills in this House. I think it'll be our pleasure to see them in the Minutes. The draft law we are debating today forms part of the implementation of the Government's position to revise the architecture of higher education, the strategy of the single area of higher education and research, aims at the synergies of university institutions for a high level of education geared to the future. After the transformation, and particularly after 1980, we had a rapid increase in the number of higher education institutions throughout the country. This was done without serious treatment, without academic criteria, without national planning. Decentralization was baptized, and in words it was intended to give everyone access to higher education. This has, of course, proved to be a completely false document, without connection to the labour market and to the real needs of society. All access to higher education has remained deeply classic, although with different class division features, which have now been expressed with the possibility of paying good instruction and expensive private schools. Criterion for the choice of the host city - and we will all remember it - each new school was basically to satisfy the competition of local societies and, of course, the micro-party political benefit of local players, MPs, ministers and self-government, who rushed to capitalize in the form of a vote collection the famous old-fashioned 'on my actions'. Unfortunately, the plans for the development of the country on the basis of self-government failed to create a regional conscience, nor to create a basis for synergy and understanding between the regions of each region. If we want to speak with the conditions that have been applied, the Central Region is certainly wrong, since it is the only one of the thirteen regions that does not have its own university. In fact, he had from 2003 until 2013 a biased Central University with a school that was closed in the context of the "ATHENA" project and at the same time acquired the Faculty of Positive Sciences with two sections of the university - that I think is credited to the then political leadership - while he continued to have some TEIs, which if we want to be honest with the exception of some sections, the performance on research, technology and innovation were anemic, as the Secretary-General of Lifelong Learning of the then government has said in writing. Never, then, have there been attractive for candidate students with all the subsequent consequences, especially after the association of the TEI Chalkida with the TEI of Lamia. The contradictory is that in 2013 the University of Central Greece closed down very little, while today the non-refoundation as Central University is an area in which political opponents of the government invest in fishing in the blurred waters of localism and the service of economic local interests and as young Mavroyalous to place the re-establishment of what they abolished. Ladies and gentlemen, education is an area in which every decision, every action, every action, leaves a mark on the whole country. The question of education in modern times requires synergies that go beyond the borders of local societies and become national and supranational. Recently we welcomed the collaboration of the National Technical University with the famous Columbia. How hypocritical the objections to the synergy of three major universities in the area of Central Greece may be heard after this event! I therefore believe that this draft law gives its provisions the best solution, under the present circumstances, while at the same time instigating regional awareness among citizens. They are founded in all major cities of high-eligible schools with strong and sustainable sections that treat distinct and recognised internationally recognised cognitive objects. Especially at the headquarters of the Region of Central Greece, in Lamia, together with the two existing departments, of Information Technology with applications in Biomedical and the Department of Information and Telecommunications will be founded and operated by the Department of Mathematics and the Department of Physics. These four departments are part of the School of Positive Sciences of the University of Thessaly, while the Physics Department is part of an upgrade of the respective TEI, and the Department of Accounting. At the same time, at the University of Thessaly, a university research centre is set up consisting of eleven institutes, two of which, the Institute for Systems and Data Science and the Institute for Rehabilitation and Welfare, will have the seat of Lamia. The high eligibility of these schools beyond the attraction of students from all over Greece, I believe that it will also work in the direction of the stay of the young people of Central Greece for study at these schools, thus restoring the understanding and the wider synergy between the regions of the region, which are not present today. Finally, I believe that the development of higher education in Greece, through the regulations of this bill, will eventually lead to the establishment of the University of Central Greece, as foreseen by the new Academy of Education and Research Region of Central Greece that has been introduced into the bill. In conclusion, I would like to ask the Minister, if possible, in the context of the possibilities of creating the Lamia-based Geology Department. I would remind you, Minister, that Fthiotida has considerable mineral wealth and, in addition, is the law of Greece with the largest concentration of thermal sources as well as with extensive geothermal fields. Important, too, is that there should also be a reference to the local players in Fthiotida. I should like to remind you of the need to implement the commitments they have made to place the extent to which they will host the university facilities. I think they're too late. It takes an amendment to the general urban planning plan and, as is provided for in the relevant law, because the area, which has been designated by all, is an important area and, unfortunately, Lamia's general urban plan has been set aside for many years at a point which is a forest area. For these reasons, I believe that we should support this draft law and I believe that colleagues will support an innovative action that is taking place in the region in order to develop a university which will play an important role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u383	Thank you very much. Mr Georgios Excellency has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this year is a milestone, as it marks the end of the Memorandum and the passage to a new chapter for the country. From the first bills we bring to the vote this year and after the renewal of Parliament's confidence in our Government, this bill concerns the area of higher education. A series of reforms have taken place both in tertiary and in other levels and others will follow. Our aim is to reshape the country's educational map, correct distortions and pathogens, create a modern educational system that meets international challenges. With over one thousand new membership posts, over the last two years, with a 40% increase in inputs compared to the previous year in universities, with the research area of 45 million that have been allocated to support research organisations in remote and island areas, with a hundred and fifty new jobs of scientists that will still support the research centres of the country, with fifteen thousand recruitments that will take place over the next three and four and a half thousand recruitments that will be made for the first time in special education in 2019, this is our care for education. With regard to the amendments, one amendment relating to appointments and the way in which teachers are appointed - whether for permanent appointments or for subsistence recruitment - was and is a difficult process, and that is your achievement, of counter-population, as things have been created with too many teams of teachers who have the right for themselves to have the greatest moleculation. The enhanced pre-service, the degree, yet scientific and social criteria establish a balanced system, which will give this dimension that teachers need for the next period to function. The other amendment we are talking about is the reduction of pupils by part of the twenty-five to twenty-two, starting this year for kindergarten and the first grade. The bill for the University of Western Attica, Ioannina, the Ionian University, as this bill creates a new architecture in higher education. They shall establish the single area of higher education and research. They strengthen university institutions and open the way for the effective upgrading of technological institutions. TEIs join university institutions strongly, with prestige and tradition in education, so that they themselves can challenge ensuring effective and rational functioning from now on as HEIs. And we have the Qualified Opposition to worry about whether, how and when private universities are to be set up. But what did the country's public education system provide? Available, redundancies, continuing reduction in education expenditure and a "ATHENA" project, which most likely looked like a hurricane. In its "decide and order" logic without systematic advancement, it merged and closed sections without criteria, without central planning, without consultation. We don't come overnight to change everything. Here there was consultation for a year and a half, working committees were set up with the participation of all stakeholders, open public debates were held on the basis of concrete texts, proposals and documented findings. With this bill, we therefore have a new architecture from the University of Thessaly, the establishment of the EKRF and new departments in Athens, new departments and schools for the Agricultural University of Athens. The important benefit that will arise for our county, Evia. Multiple are expected to be the benefits at social, cultural, economic level by establishing the innovative structure of the "Evropolis Technopolis" in Chalkida. It is an area for the development of innovative, research, development and cultural structures. At the same time, it is established by the NRP at the Psachna School of Rural Development, Nutrition and Sustainability as well as eight new sections, with pioneering and innovative cognitive objects such as aerospace, digital arts, alternative tourism, port and shipping management. The integration of departments into a university such as the NRP with a long history as well as the strengthening with modern objects that respond to modern requirements and challenges gives new impetus to both educational institutions themselves and to our prefecture. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a bill emblematic. The special speaker of the Democratic Alliance also said so in committee. This bill could, he says, be emblematic if we heard the opposition. Then they vote against the bill at first - e.g., that goes beyond us - and now they also put a roll-call vote. I'd like one thing to remind the special speaker of KINAL. I read from a press release: 'Because opportunities for local societies, and especially for Evia, must not continue to be lost, we call on Evia's self-government, the institutions and the Evia society not to remain indifferent to what is being launched, to support proposals that give immediate and tangible prospects for higher education in Evia. The Judiciary Committee of the Evia Change Movement considers it necessary at last to integrate Chalkida and Evia into the academic map of the country, with the establishment of university-level structures and will make a decisive contribution to the development of the region's intellectual, cultural and economic resources.’ I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Aristotle, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I don't know if their prefecture or party has been questioned in the county. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. The area of education cannot stand still. It is a living organization where changes and redesign are vital to keep pace with modern needs and developments. Civic Opposition, for its part, is being cut for when and how private universities will be set up. This is her only concern, and on the other hand, her Chief of Statement of the party's conference "I want us to wing and fly and jump into the new world". A little hard to throw in his case. And if he wants to fly himself, that is, it is difficult to assimilate the weights that his party has been dragging in for years: health scandals, armaments costs, the medicine. Just how Mr. Mitsotakis will fly, I don't know. The excellent, graduates of private colleges, which act as advertisers of private interests, are evidently attuned to an educational system of powerless and weakened. It is obvious that they are suited to a citizen who eradicates his history, with a new employee impoverished, to the limits of despair. However, the area of public education is not their loophole. Against their neoliberal policies, which left the stigma, contributing to the shrinking and degradation of the educational system, we are moving a step forward in the remodeling of the country's educational map for a modern educational system, which will cultivate free thinking and promote knowledge and creativity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Constantine Screkas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u386	Yesterday, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, the government had a vote of confidence from a hundred and fifty Members and today continues to govern, Minister. But let us see what the results are, what the result of the vote of confidence yesterday is. Next week, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, as far as we are concerned, you will bring the Ambassadors' agreement to the vote and ratify. Minister of Education, I hope you've read the Prespecies Agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u387	Very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u388	Very carefully. So you will know that the agreement includes a committee composed of Greek and Skopje experts, who will examine, among other things, the Greek books of Greek history taught by Greeks for decades in Greek schools. You will have to rewrite, Minister, the Greek history that Greeks teach in Greek schools with the agreement of the Skopje. And I ask, Minister, what are these historical events that you need to rewrite? What are these historical events taught by Greeks in Greek schools, which need change and which you should rewrite with the agreement of Macedonian experts? Why don't you tell the Greek people? Why don't you tell the Greek Members of your group who are going to vote and ratify the Ambassadors' Agreement? Why don't you say? Why are you hiding them from the Greek people? Why hide all these consequences of this oppression, this really harmful Ambassadors' Agreement, the consequences of which will be seen in the next few weeks, in the coming months and in the coming years? Rewrite Greek history with the Skopje Historians' Agreement and that's why you celebrate it. Congratulations, Minister. We hope at least in the debate that will take place, the open debate that will be held on the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement, to tell us what these elements are, what these elements of Greek history are, what these elements of the liberation wars that have taken place where Greek ancestors have lost their lives, have given their blood to liberate Macedonia. You can tell us that. I really do wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how tomorrow you will explain to a visitor in Greece that Macedonian supposedly Zaev is something different from Macedonian Alexander the Great. Will you bring him Mr. Tsipras's Ambassadors' agreement and tell him that it is written in Article 10(2), line 3? Let's go to today's bill. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is quite clearly and uniquely wrong with the Trikalas. Firstly, as our rapporteur, and also the New Democracy parliamentary representative, has very well demonstrated, was not designed with any academic, with no scientific, meritful, economic or other social criteria. The only data you have used relate to ruffles in "local", probably your colleagues, who serve your friends or fellowships interests. The new University of Thessaly, for example, as you planned, will have thirty-four sections, twenty-two new ones and one with a promise, which is founded in Trikala. Of the thirty-five sections only three, i.e. two, which will also be set up with a promise, will have the Trikala headquarters. As soon as 5% of the thirty-five sections of Thessaly will be located the Trikala. Suffice it to tell you, Minister, that Trikala at the moment, like many other regions of this country that are located in the region of Greece, would have been devastated, would have been poor, if the state had not taken care to establish higher university and higher university institutions, which, on the one hand, contributed a great deal to regional development and, on the other, kept young people in the region of Greece, but have also brought young students from large urban centres. I must inform you, Minister, that Trikala today has strong competitive advantages in terms of tourism, the agricultural sector, the processing of agricultural and livestock products, but, as it turns out, the new design of the University of Thessaly has not been taken into account at all. This is how you isolate Trikala even more and actually do a university blockade of the Trikala regional unit. Two sections of the thirty-four, which you set up, will work in Thessaly and in Lamia. It is also a requirement for the Trikala people and the Trikala institutions to withdraw this bill and bring it back to life, including as Mr Javaras said, and the University of Thessaly. Today you are founding in Larissa nine sections, of which seven new sections, on Volos ten new sections, of which two new sections, in Lamia five, of which three new sections, in Karditsa four, of which three new ones. In Trikala two departments still operate one with promise, without teachers, without students, without budget, without ministerial decisions. You're making fun of the world. You are going to make fun of the Trikala people and the Greek Parliament colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, because we are all going to agree that we should exclude and not allow populism in this Chamber and because decisions should be made on higher education with academic criteria, taking into account the local needs and the needs of the country for future scientists, who should contribute to a long, sustainable, sustainable development of the Greek economy, I would like to say to you that in Trikala, apart from the agricultural and livestock sectors, we also have strong processing, some of the largest processing companies for livestock products in Greece. Next to them, many other large, medium and smaller processing facilities have been established and operated. Today Trikala is well aware that it is a "smart" city, which we have been investing in innovation and research for decades. In Trikala we have a strong tourist economy and it is one of Greece's leading tourist destinations and the second, after Mount Athos, religious destination. Finally, in Trikala today, the Department of Physical Education and Sport, TEFA Trikala, operates. This section needs to be strengthened in terms of the academic environment, which we need to establish around it, to help it with logistics, with teachers, with new departments, with technicians, with management, because it does not matter, Minister, that we establish sections on paper without staff, without professors, without money, without tools, because this does not guarantee the provision of high-level training at the highest level. That is why, Minister, we are voting against this bill and we call on you, as Mr Javarras quite rightly said, to withdraw it, change it and bring it back right and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Christos Simorellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, Mr President. It seems that today the Trikalas have their honor. We had all the schools and four MPs who talked about the Trikala, so they have their honour. But I would say to my colleague and friend and consortator that he probably didn't read the bill. Isn't that right, Minister? I guess Mr. Screkas didn't read it. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] But I would like to say that yesterday was indeed a defeat for the New Democracy. It's been fighting for so long to drop the government. You didn't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u391	You made a memorial with a loan stitch!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u392	It was a defeat for the New Democracy, a clear mandate for the government, for the stability of the country, for the credibility, a mandate that enables the government to bring all the positive bills that you will be voting for, colleagues of the New Democracy. You want - you don't want to vote for everything. We'll be here and I'll see you around. As far as the Prespecies are concerned, eventually the New Democracy turned out to be looking from somewhere to catch. A complex name agrees. The private communication from Skopje came and solves the issue of both the language and ethnicity you were saying. What are you looking for now? We heard it from my colleague. You've got the books left. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement will come next week. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will do everything in its power to make the whole society know. You will not escape in this debate for everything. We called you. The Prime Minister called Mr. Mitsotakis yesterday. He's hiding. He's not answering. Will it come to a debate, which will show all the channels? Of course not. The bill we are debating today is moving towards strengthening and supporting public education and putting the academic community at the centre. The plan we have before us today is the result of a wide-ranging democratic dialogue, the opinion of the assembly of universities and TEIs, taking into account the needs of the institutions. It is therefore on the opposite side of the Samara government's Memorandum "ATHENA" project. You have forgotten that, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. The new University of Thessaly, as this emerges with the synergy of the existing HEI with the TEIs of Thessaly and Central Greece, introduces the Foundation into a new era of development. The Foundation is essentially supported at all levels. We are therefore planning a university with modern and innovative curricula, in a wide range of scientific subjects, which will offer diplomas with international recognition and professional rights to graduates. In this effort, of course, the existing structures are being exploited in all the Thessaloniki cities, but there are the necessary commitments for financial support, so that the institution operates in modern infrastructure and, above all, without gaps in educational staff, as was the case in the past, particularly with regional departments of TEIs. In particular, for the Trikala, ladies and gentlemen, listen to this. We'll tell you what we had in Trikala. We had the School and a Department of Civil Engineering at the TEI which had no rights, no teachers, no administrative support. What do we have today, colleagues? We have an upgraded Physical Education School, S.A.S.A. And what do we bring? A Department of Physical Education, the Department of Dietology which is of great importance, colleagues, and we will see this in September when the children complete the computer. The third is the foreign-language section, which was a proposal from the CCAMLR. It's the foreign language, which is the first part throughout the country. He'll bring people from everywhere. Three sections, then. Let's go down. There are institutes. First Institute: Cinesiology. Second: Perfume and Pharmaceutical Plants. There are also all the two-year programmes that were not available. I would also like to say, Minister, that Trikala is the city of Asclepius. I would therefore ask you - and I think you are positive in this direction - to discuss this with the congress so that, since there is no medical school at the University of Thessaly, it is proposed that a medical school be set up in Trikala. We deserve it. I would like to say a lot too much. I do not want to steal any time from other colleagues, because there are many. But I would like to stand - and I would like to say a minute - to what the government does after ten years, namely the appointments of fifteen thousand people, teachers and four and a half thousand people. I was lucky, Minister, to find myself with people who were substitutes and who put us in Trikala, as well as young children who are not substitutes. They said those arguments too. People came, too, with social issues, etc. And above all, third parties. I mean, you're moving in the right direction. I took this conclusion when all three sides came up with these positions. I think we are in the right direction in terms of appointments. What I want to say and stress, if possible, is to pay great attention to those teachers who have done for years on remote islands or in remote areas. We could also somehow correct the tritecs and multiples with some more molecules. I think this can be solved and we will not have any problems at all. I therefore believe that it is a bill that we must vote in favour. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Antoniou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after a day when the government managed to overrule the vote of confidence of Parliament from a heirly 'accordance' now 'the chair', essentially by violating the separation of powers, which does not have a precedent in the parliamentary procedure - it may be the truth - and arbitraryly transforming the minority of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group into a marginal and fragile majority, you are coming today to discuss the Ministry of Education's bill. What is your parliamentary legitimacy to pass through Parliament this bill, you will tell us. Is it part of your deal under the table with the ANELs? Minister of Education, even the first-year law student, learns as a democratic treaty of the constitution that the parliament controls the government and not the parliament. You, the'chair alliance', are not concerned. You continue your destructive work in higher education, which you have been starting for a long time, roughly and without any planning, with a view, as you say, to the supposed reorder of the country's academic map. By the way, mention in your speech that you have studied the needs for teachers. So will you tell us how many will be appointed, in which sector and in what specialty? You didn't answer us. So the current bill, ladies and gentlemen, is once again the technological training of Central and Thessaly. Remove the TEIs of Thessaly and Central, without any assessment, which are effectively absorbed by the EKP, by the Agricultural University of Athens, the University of Thessaly and are part of new departments for which there is no sustainability study, no design, in a way that IPP itself describes as inappropriate in its annual report. In most cases the new departments are to be or, rather, to put it more correctly, Minister, they are to meet the needs of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. What if extremely successful sections need to be abolished, with enormous absorption in the labour market and a very valuable contribution to medical research, such as the medical laboratories of Thessaly! What if sections are created with overlapping objects, which with mathematical accuracy will produce unemployed graduates! What if in other departments the professional rights of graduates are at risk. All this is of very little importance to the Ministry and the Government. All you're interested in is satisfying your customer base. But I also have a proposal for you, Mr President: to create a 'Theatre Department', because you will have ready-made teachers, Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Quik, Mrs. Kouduras, a large number of others who only have to perform theatrical performances! In addition to the absorption of the two TEIs, of course, we have provisions for research, in which I will concentrate, since the relevant Minister, Mr Fotakis, fears not only consultation but also fears the opposing person - and lacks the time I speak - and criticism of what he is doing. It does not explain otherwise, Minister, that, in your best practice, in another bill the rules on research have never been put into public consultation. Our counterpart, however, cannot be prevented. So listen to him, well. Articles 17 and 23: You say that you are setting up two further university research centres at the NRP and at the University of Thessaly. The law is clear, Mr Fotakis, for the procedure you have to follow in the event of the establishment of new research centres. I would remind you: Article 13(5) of Law4310, as you amended by Article 11(3) of Law4386, your law: "In case of the establishment of new research centres or institutes, a study of economics, feasibility study, viability, compatibility report, etc. Such studies shall have the agreement of the ESRB.’ What's the ESRB? So I ask you, Mr Fotakis. Have you followed the legal procedure for the establishment of these two university research centres? Have you submitted the necessary studies to the RISK? Did you ensure the agreement of the ESRB? The answer is no. And that's not what we're talking about, Mr. Fotakis. Mr. Fotakis is not here, so you will listen to them, Mr. Gavroglou, instead of Mr. Fotakis, but you obviously do not pay any attention. This is what the ESRB itself says, Mr Gavroglou, that is, the state's highest advisory body for the development of national research policy. I therefore submit to the Minutes the letter from the President-in-Office of the Council from 20 July to you, Minister, confirming all the above claims and trying to bring you back to regularity and legal procedure. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Antoniou, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am characteristic of the last sentence of the letter: "In view of the above, the ESRB will await the submission of the studies and reports on the research centres under way to express its opinion". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will also give me a few minutes, Mr President. Indeed, it seems the President of the EESC is still waiting for the studies and will probably be waiting for them for a long time. That is exactly what the Association of Greek Investigators stressed at the hearing. Therefore, Minister, you are completely indifferent to the state's highest advisory body, the ESRB. Write the oldest of your shoes the law. You do not even take into account the objections of researchers and you continue your research policy, which you have shown from your first legislation, its policy of 'decide and order'. In the same way you are acting in Article 35, which includes the arrangements for the ELIFE. You are changing by paragraph 2, Mr Fotakis, for the third time since the establishment of ELIDEC, in less than two and a half years, the system of assessing proposals, the candidates for funding. What happened? The attempt to distribute resources to other parties doesn't come to us? Is that why the previous president of the ELIADEC resigned? He couldn't withstand the pressure? Initially, the evaluation was carried out by a three-member committee of experts under Law 4485. You changed that and then you started to do the evaluation by expert committees. And now you come and you change it again. Will you really answer us, Minister, why do you change the system of evaluation of proposals? Even the most naive one understands, Minister, that there can be no credibility and objectivity in an evaluation system, which you are constantly changing and deliberately, obviously to direct funding where it is necessary. No matter how good we want to be, unfortunately you do not allow us. But you - Mr Fotakis - I mean, not you, Mr Gavroglou - have served his logic of'money there', along with George Papandreou. Of course you're trying to forget it. As you also know, the policy of "Shovela, give it all". Mr. Fotakis is well aware of this policy. You are therefore cutting off and sewing, the evaluation system in your measures, as it suits you. Mercy! And we are moving quickly to paragraph 5 of Article 36, where with another photographic provision, like the ones you are used to, you are resetting the remuneration, says, the Director-General of the ELGO DIMITRA, and you are legalising the costs of the above entity for paying the Director-General's payroll from 1 January 2017 until today. What if there is any expenditure, what if there is retroactively, what if Greeks are charged? It's of little importance to you. As long as the micro-services go well. And a few words about Article 37. In paragraph 3, with a vague provision, you are retroactively legalising the cash and lending facilities paid by the research and technological centres or the EMIs. You should specify to us, Minister, which facilities you refer to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u395	You must finish, Mrs. Anthony.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u396	I shall conclude, Mr President. The regulation is so vaguely formulated that it is likely to become 'Siloam squatters', through which it will legalise retroactively for any cash and lending employment. As regards paragraph 2, 37, it brings minor changes to the EPP/ED, etc. There I am presenting the letter from the Association of Greek Investigators to the Prime Minister on the issue of bureaucracy, because the bureaucracy has been brought by you as soon as you incorporated the research activities into the public accountancy. So bureaucracy is your achievement. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Antoniou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] For us, in the New Democracy, strengthening technological education at all levels is a project and a key instrument to combat increasing youth unemployment and to halt Brain Drain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u397	Thank you, Mrs. Anthony.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u398	Instead, you have become the so-called reform of the academic charter, as well as the research into a voting tool that you are using to serve pre-election micro-group interests. That's enough! You're also understood by stones! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u399	Thank you very much. K's got the floor. Luminous Vaki. If we do not take care of time, the last ten to twelve speakers will not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u400	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u401	What do you want, Mr. Papadopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u402	From seven minutes ago, my colleague spoke twelve. If we go with that logic, the latter won't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u403	Don't complain, Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u404	I'm protesting! I suggest that those who exceed the time should be cut by the next of those on the same line. It doesn't work anymore!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u405	Don't complain! Mrs. Jufi spoke seven and a half minutes ago, she said interesting things, and I let her finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u406	Remove from SYRIZA! Poor thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u407	That's a bad thing, Mr. President. We're not writing to erase us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u408	Mrs Vaki, you have the floor for twelve minutes, as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u409	Thank you very much, Mr President. Several of the previous speakers have heard about public university. So the defendant and the usual suspect, in terms of Civic Opposition, is the Greek public university allegedly also a man of lawlessness. Let me start my speech with a reference to this public university. Since the 1994 Marrakesh meeting, the aim has been to liberalise education services and to reduce the neoliberal subjection of universities to market logic, market laws, with the blessings of the World Trade Organization, the World Bank, the OECD and the International Monetary Fund. For the enthusiasts of neoliberal idealism, the market had to demolish public goods, including education, after having devoured them, depreciated and systematically degraded. Ladies and gentlemen, universities are not technical schools for training and qualification and students are not customers who buy knowledge from teachers. It does not regulate the invisible hand of the market, the cognitive objects or the research fields that the university heals. Because scientific research will either be free and unsolved or there will be no. Manipulative research, research feathery of economic use, is a form of oxymomile. Research objects are not only subject to market laws, but may also be such that it is directly questionable. Can one, for example, imagine a university from which social sciences and humanitarian sciences, sciences that articulate speech rhetoric and reason for their existence, be the criticism of the existing order of things? Was the animosity and systematic deterioration of these sciences, ever since tetcheism, in the 1980s? Mr. Javarras made a reference to Derida and the unsubstantiated university. I'm going farther back, Mr. Javarra. Genetic cause of the first universities, eight centuries ago, was one thing only: to guarantee and establish a public area of uninterrupted research and free thinking, that is, a thought manipulated by the yoke of any authority of church, economic, state. Let's go a few centuries later, in 1792, where in his text entitled "The conflict of schools" Immanuel Kant set freedom as a criterion of the centre of gravity of sciences, not that of the market, but the thought of the critical reflection that frees from the burdens of authority, tradition, admissibility and therefore proclaims philosophy as the crown of sciences, synonymous with the proper use of speech and criticism. Why am I saying all this? In Greece, it had to spend two centuries to establish the first and only autonomous Department of Philosophy. I therefore consider it extremely important to guarantee, in this draft law, the autonomy of the cognitive object of philosophy, even though for you who are defenders of the university of the market it is a field without economic benefits and a reflection. I consider the promotion of philosophy studies today a crack of light in the dark of a time that, although it has received the legacy of Enlightenment, is not at all enlightened today. And the country's productive reconstruction, what we call fair growth, should be consistent with the country's worthy reconstruction and the armoring of democracy, whose enemies, the preachers of hatred, intolerance, racism, nationalism, are unfortunately multiplying dangerously. If a society is targeting itself through the university institution, if the university is the mirror and its conscience, then the latter, the university, is also the possibility, the term of possibility, the yeast of a democratic society. And vice versa is true. In the context of a democratic society, a university, as defined by its founding treaty, can blossom in a public area of free teaching and research which is institutionally guaranteed by its administrative autonomy and democratic consultation of the members of the community that constitute it. Ladies and gentlemen, the lost price of the university's self-government and democratic decision-making has been restored, you like it, you do not like it, by this government. The blood supply of public higher education through the expansion of the academic map was made by this government. The creation of new departments, particularly in regional universities, shows that this government aims to strengthen the public university without asterisks. But above all, even if objections and reasonable arguments are raised, objections to the feasibility of establishing them, for draft laws concerning the synergies of institutions, the new architecture - which I would like to stress - of the academic landscape from which it arises? It results from a broad consultation of the members of the academic community and its organs and not from the outset. I say these because memories are fresh from the plan of arbitrary and irresponsible abolition of schools and departments with the only criterion of economies of scale then being heard in the name of the 'ATHENA' project. Whose Organic euphemism and nightmare! Fresh memories are, however, of the era of false euphoria and prosperity, where the academic map was engraved with a slogan "every village and part" to increase the clientele of the parliamentary offices, to ensure the re-electing of local masters, to secure "days" membership positions and to prosper not the education, but the cafes and rooms to let the regions. Therefore, undeniably, the trademark of the in Greece's academic architecture is the unregulated structure and some " arbitrary" without cause for existence and without connection to the scientific process. A one-way public university aid, which will circumvent both a violent abolition of departments and an automatic upgrade of existing ones, is the attempt to redesign the academic map on the basis of synergies dictated by exclusive academic criteria and not localistic idiosyncrasies, and to form pretexts, sculptures of the University of the 21st century, in which democratic function with academicity and teaching with research, which is defined as a horizontal interdisciplinary synergy and a window to local societies that reveal horizons. In this, then, the university's bet that should be won is overcoming the dilemma of traditional instruction on the one hand and the market logic of unconditionally subjecting profit on the other, the hermetically closed within the community's academic life space and an "outwarding" which is understood as manipulation by private local interests. So these dilemmas should go beyond this university. I now enter the amendment on the new way in which teachers are appointed. Many Members have said so before me that this is the first time in ten years that fifteen thousand permanent appointments of teachers were launched. It is, if you would like, the first act of oxygen in public school, the enhancement of multiple special treatment and the restoration of major injustices, with greater that of the autism and ten years awaiting the appointment of the successors of the 2008 AACC. So, then, you, of the counter-population, the proclamations of excellence, copying, students-customers, evaluation as a pretext for redundancies will support it? Will you who wish to return the ratio 1 to 5, an intake for five departures, the sworn enemies and persecutors of civil servants, open this time the window of hope and fairness to fifteen thousand teachers, or will you also follow it as a pretext, as an election communication fire and so on? I would like to remind you here of the two and a half thousand education training dismissals with the corresponding abolition of the skills they were serving to throw them and the students, of course, north on the private IEKs and on the schools. I would like to remind you of the moment when the dignity of teachers was ragged when they were recruited preventively to prevent them from strikeing. As far as universities are concerned, I would also like to remind you of the availability of a thousand administrative staff of universities, where, of course, they would lead, among other things, to the dismantling and dismantling of institutions, to possibly open a field of glory and profit that is brilliant in the uplifting or translation of complaints and centres of study, colleges and similar profitable businesses in the private universities you dream about. Needs to be remembered. Unfortunately, of course, the hope of new permanent appointments in schools these days is true that it was covered by voices and controversies, by complaints, by competitions between groups: old against young people, by holders of titles against non-residents. It takes traits intergenerationally: a parent based on the years of adoration may turn against his child who graduated or has a PhD. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the Deputy Professors supported public education in very difficult times, without permanent residence and work, but without rights, villagers in a village, serving education in remote, difficult areas, sometime in the distant future. This is the one aspect of reality. But there is also a critical mass of a generation where the unemployment to which it was convicted did not want to be translated into unemployment. PhD diplomas, postgraduate degrees does not imply that they have been obtained by inert tuition or by the so-called "industrial" seminars valued quantitatively against profit. Is it right, then, that they too should remain unjust or be sacrificed to the altar of one - trustworthy - of equalisation? I believe that the amendment, with the corrections made, should be balanced - it is balanced - and introduces a way of appointment so that none of the above categories is wronged. Let us not let the stone years of the crisis, inconvenience, unemployment, despair, a vague expectation, turn into anger and anger, not against the state, but - go! - against my colleague. In this generation, the lost generation of crisis, let's give back a dream, a vision, a future. It is a generation that, carrying on the luggage of the titles and rich resumed in resumed without hope and emigrated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u410	Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u411	I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. There has been a lot of hearing about the 'Government', about the Prespecies Agreement, all that has created a toxic atmosphere in the past two days. I can only say that the vote of confidence was an act of bravery. I said it the other day. He called for legitimacy, while he could fortify behind legality, as he calls for it in the Constitution. The vote of confidence has been won. Because legality is not exhausted in legality. The Presidencies' Agreement on which you have said a great deal is imminent. I'm done with this. Let all this take place, and the Ambassadors' Agreement, to rebuild abused and injured conditions. Let us finally trigger an open, progressive, democratic society and not a nation - 'Scattered pig', enclosed and self-sufficient in its myths for the surrogate peoples in history, who are all being guided. Let's stop tearing the Greek people apart for an opportunism, for your vindicating desire for rehabilitation, for a "empty shirt". The sitter and his weapons and we'll all answer to history and the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u412	I should like to inform you that a request for a roll-call vote has been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR at the beginning of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs "Cooperations between the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, the Agricultural University of Athens, the University of Thessaly with the TEIs of Thessaly and Central Greece, the Palemnian Fund and other provisions". The vote will take place at 23.00 with the other vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u413	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u414	What do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u415	I wanted to make a clarification of some of the information provided by Mrs Antoniou earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u416	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u417	Because Mrs. Antonio was missing from the committees that preceded...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u418	We happen to be sick too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u419	Yes, but the same can be true of others. He was away in the morning, mostly. Anyway, I don't want to argue right now. After all, when he talks about our research policy, he is a vivid publicity about the work that is being done. I just wanted to clarify one thing, which is important. As far as university research centres are concerned, these do not fall under L.4386. They shall not be centres supervised by the Secretariat-General. This has been clarified in committee. They are centres which are controlled and essentially proposals from universities themselves, as part of their self-determination. They have the right to do that. They have the right to increase their scope for activities in universities by creating such synergies, and of course to support various initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u420	Mr. Fotakis, thank you very much. Mr. Conkogeor has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position in the draft law we are debating these days and in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, but also in plenary, I would like to make a point. Listening to Mrs Vaki, the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, I got the impression that SYRIZA founded the public universities in Greece. It gave me that impression, as if all happened in SYRIZA times in this country. Mrs Vaki, you must realise that before you, there have been too many patriots who have worked zealously, with self-determination, with objectivity, have created the public education system that you today, instead of speaking in terms of the future, to restore their true value in society and to offer them to youth, you are speaking in terms of the past. That's our big difference. As far as I am concerned, Mrs Vakis, I am addressing you as a parliamentary representative - the two-day debate that preceded the vote of confidence, yes, the House gave you a vote of confidence. He gave you a bow of confidence, a confusing vote of confidence, the result of an Oriental bazaar. We'll see in time how this ship called the SYRIZA government, without compass and flag of convenience, will continue to walk from now on. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Okay, you'll be satisfied in a few days. I'll see you in time for the next few days. Ladies and gentlemen, in a country which has been fighting for a decade to come out of the deep crisis found in its modern history, it would expect every nomadic citizen in every strategy to have the necessary understanding between the political forces and the real dialogue with all those involved in each case. In fact, when these choices relate to the educational system of the country and especially to higher education, the above conditions are absolutely necessary for the successful outcome of each project. There is no doubt that the current structure of higher education in our country needs areas and reforms, which will help our country and citizens to set up and support a modern, flexible and effective development plan for its rapid return to normality and prosperity. It is absolutely certain that the country's highest education institutions must adapt to the present conditions and needs of the country and successfully anticipate the international conditions of the immediate future that they will face. In this case, in addition to the above requirements, each proposal should be accompanied by an assessment of existing structures, sustainability studies, studies to identify needs and specialties, professional rights, and to serve the general interest of Greek citizens, and to a maximum extent to exploit the comparative advantages and potential of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, which we have been discussing for eight days in both the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media today, does not, in my opinion, comply with the above commonly accepted requirements. The Minister for Education and the Ministry's political leadership, as I pointed out in my speech to the committee, shows allergy to public democratic dialogue and to the contrary. He writes in his earlier shoes the parliamentary control, the opinion of the independent authorities and claims for himself the "infallibleness of the Pope". At the meetings of the committee responsible, I described Mr Gavroglou as Minister of the Houdini and Mr Maestro of Successional Services. Whoever doesn't know who Houdini is, I'll explain to you at the end. I insist on that. With his mixed style, he brings us into a virtual reality and as magically all the problems are solved. But the reality of our country's higher education is different. Most HEIs leap between deterioration and incorporation, with insufficient funding, with anachronistic curriculum, with no research, no professional rights, the lowest competitiveness in the European Union and the minimum link to the labour market. Every effort that has been made in the past has been undermined by the current government, which is committed to its ideological strangles, does not accept in its vocabulary any reference to the words of assessment, antagonism, excellence, noble speech, specialization and labour market. The Government, through the Minister of Education, with an equitable tactic and under micropolitical criteria, is trying to fish for electoral clienteles, absorbing the TEI from existing universities, without any evaluation, sustainability study, professional rights and with memorable care. For all of this, however, the 'industrial' of amendments and 'parents' service have been placed both by the rapporteur of the New Democracy and by many speakers. Personally, I will deal with those articles of the bill concerning the extension of the Agricultural University of Athens to three cities in Central Greece, which I consider to be right but a coward in terms of its extent. It is common knowledge that the Agricultural University of Athens, ladies and gentlemen, played a decisive role in the development of the country and in the welfare of the Greek citizens. It is one of the oldest universities in our country, with a high level of study, but it has never dared to develop its activities beyond the urban fabric of the capital city and especially the centre of capital. I have had this weakness for years, and I do not hide from you that this proposal is partially satisfying, although I consider it to be a coward and abstract. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance for a minute. The upgrading of the Forestry Department of TEI Lamia in a Department of Forestry and Natural Environment, Carpenesi, a five-year course, the School of Plants of the Agronomic University of Athens is correct and meets all scientific and international criteria. The Evrytania Prefecture is the prefecture with the largest and diverse forest cover in the country. It has been awarded by UNESCO as the cleanest environmental region in Europe and is fifth throughout the world. It has sufficient education and student care facilities, and it is the entire county of the laboratory. It could and must be complemented by at least one further section, such as, for example, Minister, from the Department of Aromatic Plants and Apiculture Carpenesi to become an autonomous school, with high international standards and a high level of sustainability and absorption in the labour market. The Agricultural University must be adequately aware of the real conditions currently prevailing in the country's production base, both in plant and animal production. He must adapt his curriculum programs to the modern needs of society, to make the most of the comparative advantages of every corner of our country that is blessed by God and the nature of our country. The establishment of sections of the Agricultural University in Amphissa and Thebe is also in a positive direction. It would, however, be innovative and bold reform the overall relocation of the Agricultural University in Central Greece, which, in my opinion, belongs there. Finally, I propose to the Minister of Education that he seriously examine the possibility of placing a Veterinary Department of the Agricultural University of Athens in Evrytania. It covers and covers all criteria. Leaving the Stepma, I declare that I am voting for Articles 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 19 and 20 of this bill, which I have already documented with my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague Mr. Ioannis Stephen from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u423	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the House voted for a vote of confidence, not only in the government, but also in the stability of the country. That seems to have disturbed some people and hurt them. I am particularly satisfied, but the result of this vote is today's debate on this bill. I am very surprised and amazed that you did not find yourself having a good word about what it has been trying for the last time in public universities in the country. However, I have an explanation. It seems that in recent years you neither want them nor seek to maintain them nor strengthen them. Your role with regard to private education is obvious. In the course of the four years, you have not again found a good word about what is going on in primary and secondary education, which has improved the climate in schools and their function, and which is related to the enrichment of the timetable for teaching with specialisation courses in the entire multi-seated municipal schools and in the few-size municipal schools. In more than four thousand two hundred schools specialties are introduced, which aim to provide equal opportunities for all children, primary school pupils, in the context of the principles of equality and justice. You did not find it possible to say a positive word, and you voted against it, for two-year-old pre-school education, a measure which will give jobs to primary education and strengthen the role of pre-school education in nursery schools. The role of teachers in many cases has been strengthened, with responsibilities for the functioning of the school. Networks of school libraries were created in ninety - twelve primary schools and there was also financial support of 3,000 for each library. No talk, no good talk! Psychologists, social workers, primary and kindergarten were placed. Finally, bathing programmes were carried out in primary schools. A.D.79/2017 regulated the operation of municipal schools and kindergartens in a more democratic direction, such as can and can favour collectiveism and cooperation within schools. The curriculum has been streamlined. You have nothing to say about all this. It didn't sound positive. I am not talking about school meals, which we have said many times, which have been embraced by families and students. I am not talking about computer equipment for all the small schools in the country or of course about the timely recruitment of teachers. It is unknown to you that schools operate on the first day of the teaching year, because you were used to opening them a month and a half later. For school books that were in place on time, that is, before schools opened for the new school year, you did not say a good conversation. However, things have been heard, which have really saddened me, as far as the functioning of this government is concerned in the school democracy. The self-righteous holiday has been abolished. In the debate we had in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, the New Democracy rapporteur said: 'What do you want, not to be abolished, criminals to teach'? But the fair holiday isn't about criminal offences. The law is clear today. Anyone who is illegal will suffer the consequences of the law. It concerns the relationships or civil differences of people at school, who were put on an automatic holiday in order to terrorise them, as terrorizing the evaluation with a punishing character, which was also abolished. It is also a matter of political empowerment that our parliamentary representative has said so. It is a measure that was welcomed by teachers. However, the dialogue that has been taking place these days tends to relate to molecules, grades, degrees, pre-service, postgraduate. The question that comes up is another. What's training? What is its role in Greek society and in every society and as such, what teachers will serve this role? I think that each of us - apart from fascists - agrees with the position that education is a prerequisite for the preservation, development and improvement of society. Moreover, I think that each of us recognises that the centre of the training process is the student, especially if not exclusively. If we agree on these basics, then we also have to agree that the teacher should be an official, because his mission is a socialist, because he has a specific knowledge-based subject, a public official, because he is doing a job which is subject to administrative commitments and an intermediary between a young person and a society. And this multiple role of teacher certainly must not be measured with molecules. How fair or unfair is it to be mobilized on the basis of one or another qualification, on the basis of titles or experience? But today, after ten years of autism, which education has been deprived of this aptitude, we are at the moment. It is therefore inevitable to try to find the golden incision to equitable molecule on the basis of educational criteria, which will become permanent ministers of education in the coming years. I can understand the story and the agony of thousands of deputys, who have been with a suitcase in the hand for years. That's why we managed to reach a hundred and twenty months. In practical terms this means thirteen and half years. That is why we are mobilizing postgraduate and doctoral qualifications and in general additional scientific qualifications. Throughout the period when the Ministry's intention to mobilise was in public consultation and later, I followed the debate that took place, the proposals made and the objections raised. I do not hide from you that many times seemed to be formed on the basis of the calculation of each individual case. And that's something that disappoints me. Sometimes the reactions to moleculosis even exceeded the negative positions in the unforgettable Loverte proposal. Let me remind you of her. He had proposed that teachers volunteering their services in schools be mobilized. We have therefore reached a proposal to mobilise appointments according to the spirit of the Constitution and the criteria of the AACC. The most flagrant of all, in my opinion, which was also stressed by the Minister, is the abolition of the AACC competition. I was expecting more generosity than Parliament's left-wing party. I waited for this to be recognised as an emblematic by the educational trade unions. So the Greek state's debt is to ensure the greatest possible quality in education. On this basis, once we have reached the moleculosis system, we should consider and discuss that framework, which will help teachers who will be recruited to serve in their schools. Finally, I have to say this: there has been a very great debate on postgraduate diplomas. I am of the opinion that any postgraduate diploma obtained in our country has all this credibility and validity needed to mobilize it. I cannot under any circumstances claim that the post-graduate diplomas obtained abroad do not have it, given that they have passed the statutory procedures in our country. But because it is a huge issue - and here there is a classicity as it has been said - the government must immediately draw up a training plan for teachers. The educational needs of teachers and teachers are enormous. They cannot and cannot all appeal to universities. A training programme after it has been drawn up and implemented will provide the weight in this direction. To conclude, I would like to say this: in this bill, a great injustice is restored, which concerns the irreversible teachers of the school year 2012-2013. These are the ones who, under the Arvanitopoulos law, were thrown out of the transfers, which, from secondary to primary education, were made on criteria all the same. So this injustice is restored. A small number of teachers remaining in 2013-2014 and 2014-2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u425	Mr President, what time will the roll-call be?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u426	23:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u427	Mr President, we must try to make a better administration so that all the Members who have been here since this morning can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u428	These calls are made by the Bureau. Without cooperation with speakers, however, it does not come out. There is not one, Mr Colleagues, speaker, who has not broken the time. Not even one!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u429	I've changed so many times my turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u430	We've changed a bit. That's true. Mrs Chryssoula Katsavria - Siropoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, one day after the renewal of Parliament's confidence in our government, the government of the large social majority, we are here to express our confidence in the new generation, with a bill that feeds up its potential and prospects, opening up fair horizons. We are here, in order to reaffirm with our intention to be a society of many the protagonists in the new economic and social model that we are shaping for the memorandum Greece. We are here, in order to harmonise the contradictions in the centre and the region, to complete the academic establishment of higher institutions that support the economic and social fabric of the region, invest in the future, in the economy of knowledge and innovation, in the society of values, justice and solidarity. This bill as a synergy between the reformist sectors that we promote at all levels of education, bridges regional gaps, brings oxygen to the democratic organisation and functioning of education, research, innovation and technological modernisation. Three major educational institutions, the National Kapodistrian, the Agricultural and the University of Thessaly, enter into very important synergy with the two TEIs of Central Greece and Thessaly. They make the collective effort attractive and interesting, inaugurating a profound interaction between education, society and the economy. A sample of another perspective for development in the country is the establishment of a new two-year EIT study program, which will provide professional certificates for European standards with free access to PES graduates, English-speaking curriculum and the upgrading of structures for lifelong learning. With the establishment of new university research centres, institutes of rural and technological parks, we change the logic of the economic model, as the rural and livestock development strategy, for the first time, will be based on the education and specialisation of students with such high standards. For the first time too, ladies and gentlemen, a measure is being taken to promote equality in the academic field, as we establish the Gender Equality Committee as an advisory body in the concert. We turn expenditure on education into expenditure on production. We make tertiary education a comparative and absolute advantage of the country. The experience of the fourteen-month consultation involving all stakeholders has highlighted the way in which fruitful convergences can be reached. Local economies benefit from developing synergies in the fields of agriculture, animal production, food, forest use energy, culture. The new institutes and research centres to be set up will make a significant contribution to economic development. The academic institutions involved themselves will be upgraded as their cognitive objects with other innovative and peaks are expanded and their cognitive objects supplemented. New and serious prospects for vocational rehabilitation are being created for students. The development plan of the University of Thessaly is based on the renewal of the TEI. The new departments make use of the thematic and building infrastructures of the TEI, protect and exploit their academic and other administrative staff. From tomorrow, then, we will have in the single area of higher education the acquis of a new university institution with enormous and multiplier potential for regional and local development in an extroverted direction, which will introduce the different and new of all the international centres of production of knowledge and know-how. Speaking in particular about my prefecture, Karditsa, a strong academic area is created with five university departments and three research institutes: the Institute for Animal Genetic Improvement, the Institute for Cotton and Rural Education, and the Institute for Wood, Furniture and Wood Packaging. I'm glad that the Ministry has become abducted to the productive needs of my county. I am very pleased that Mr Gavroglou has adopted and incorporated the proposal to create the two additional institutes, cotton and wood, which I am sure will boost the productive reconstruction of the wider region. At the same time, localist and other selfish approaches are being cancelled, which have made their appearance in an effort to weaken this ambitious project. The most important thing, however, is that we have managed to involve in this whole society reform. For the first time, citizens realise that the way universities operate, the goals they set and their effectiveness, affects local economies and leaves a strong development footprint that can change the region's naturality. This bill also shields primary and secondary education at the same time with fifteen thousand permanent recruitments, abolishing the examination of the APRC and calculating balanced pre-services, academic criteria and qualifications. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Since 2015, we have reinstated and reinstated two thousand teachers, the four hundred fifty of whom have been in the competitions of the AACC, the hundred and fifty of legal decisions, and even six hundred teachers directly from the judiciary of the AACC, restoring with courage and a spirit of justice gross injustices. We look at the political choice of the appointing of the former governments with a fair institutional framework for the renewal of the educational potential, with single tables, objective criteria and the aim of serving schools with permanent staff. We build pedagogical relations of stability and awareness. We give a clear answer to the agony and despair of thousands of teachers. We are responding to our debt for a fair system, which will put an end to the polarization of the educational community, which has so far claimed appointments in terms of subjectivity and personal justice under pressure from the need for work and the suffocating hostage in uncertain labour relations over the years. Differences are important. “The future will be defined on fair terms in every direction, or society will regress to uncontrolled perverts. With this bill, we are also renewing the constant ties that are timelessly linking us as a people with our true Greek universal values. We build up a complex but fair environment in education as a whole to serve the real needs of the individual and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Andreas Rizzoulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u433	Thank you, Mr President. In today's debate, the awkward thing to be noted - I have heard most of the speeches from the opposition - is that in all speeches, except for one or two, and above all the rapporteurs, I have not heard the need to upgrade higher education in the country. I didn't hear that from anyone. And don't go on now and say about specific proposals. Why, since we do not understand or understand the need to upgrade higher education, how do we have proposals on how this should be? Instead of saying that it is imperative to upgrade higher education in the country and to make our remarks where we might think there are problems, we are trying to find nuggets in the integration of schools or the new specialties that go in, to say that this is not right or that in my own village we might do the other! We've heard that too! But we have listened very well by Mr. Javarra to the development of a theory of ideas with some basic questions, on what is a university, what a university we want, etc. These are nice questions, which have been raising up debates, and these debates have been taking place for decades in the country. Indeed, Mr Javarra, you have said something else that you have done on the practical side. You're talking about research institutes. "I have eight hundred thousand acres in Elias and I have nothing from research"! Mr. Javarra, you closed Korovo in 2008. And here you come today, if you want to say something about your homeland that you mention about the eight hundred thousand acres - and I have heard it - ask. Your colleague, Mr Makis Balaouras, has done so a while ago the question. So ask: "Would you upgrade the Corovo that we shut him down?"
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u434	Are you telling me this? You obviously don't know what I've done to Elias!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u435	Government weren't you from 2008 to 2014? You were government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u436	I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u437	You can talk about it later. I know that Korovo was closed in 2008. From there on when we do not have anything to do with real needs, we say things that show the deficit we have and I refer to the rapporteur of the JRC. He said the JRC's rapporteur: “What do we need three divisions of dietary discipline? Is there such a need for dietists? Does capitalism want it?" Instead of putting the question here about how many dietists - nutritionists we need in hospitals today and we have a shortage. Do they need primary health care and advisory permanent positions of this kind?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u438	Aren't there?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u439	Are there any health centers?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u440	You went to an appointment, and you didn't find it? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u441	I'm not addressing you. You didn't understand what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u442	Mr Colleague, if your speech includes questions, that is what we will have. They'll answer you. Anyway, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u443	I'm sorry, Mr. President. I repeat. I am critical of the JRC's rapporteur, who said 'why do we have three dietary schools'? And I answer that there is a need now. I didn't say about you. I shall now go to the amendment. First of all, before we arrive at the fifteen thousand appointments and in our proposal, we must repeat the work that has been done four years in primary and secondary education. There has been strengthening, strengthening of the special treatment and now supplementing it with five thousand appointments. Also full-time school, two-year-old pre-school education, support and reintroduction of vocational education that he had "fast" enclosured, two-year-old programs for graduates of vocational high school in universities, a reduction in the number of pupils from twenty-five to twenty-two - a necessity for everyday life in the classroom - and new jobs, new skills - other colleagues said - in primary and secondary education, which until a few years ago was in the sphere of fantasy. These are all public education interventions. I would also like to remind you of something else that has been abolished. Even that proposal we made with Kourakis on the democratic election of directors, there was not one in this Chamber to support it. And in these economic circumstances we had of the ten thousand alternates, this year we had twenty-seven thousand in schools. This will say support for public education, in line with the problems we have, with the difficulties we have and the priorities we have. We also have fifteen thousand new posts in schools with assignments. After eleven years a strong intervention in primary and secondary education comes to solve a difficult puzzle of people who have accumulated for eleven years in waiting to be appointed at school. And we are making a proposal, which takes all those criteria, which obviously cannot satisfy everyone. And this is what a gamble has started by some political forces and by some trade union groups, whose leaderships - I see them out today - in Diamantopoulou Law and in evaluation were its leaders, showing with their fingers teachers in class and intimidating them for three years that they will be fired! And they're out now with the teachers, who step on the needs, the hopes of the teachers who are out there fighting for a job, which we brought for the first time. And be careful, this bill does not end with the fifteen thousand jobs. This government today and the government tomorrow after the elections will continue this process of recruiting teachers at school, because it puts the public school ahead. It does not only argue with private education in the highest and lowest grades. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll finish. Or rather so I don't take time from anyone else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u444	Thank you, Mr President. How well it would be for everyone to finish on time! Mrs Keramemos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u445	Mr President, the floor! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u446	Please, there is a Bureau! Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u447	He personally addressed to me and said, "What did you do?" tone which, firstly, is forbidden by the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, because - as you know - anyone who speaks from the Step of the House is addressed to the House and not to a particular MEP. So my colleague addressed me personally and said to me, "What have you done, Mr Javarra, for Elias?" So listen, dear friend, Elijah over New Democracy at this place...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u448	Don't make an account of Elijah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u449	You're welcome, Mr. President. It was founded and operates TEI of Agriculture with three directions. This TEI, the current government represented by the Minister here, wants to take from the place of Elias TEI and absorb it into the established and founded Agrinio Agricultural University.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u450	Where do you read these?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u451	It's the Mayor of Elijah. Ask Mr Balaura. Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u452	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is over. Minister, sit down. Mr. Javarra, now...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u453	Is there any mail and you're telling me where I'm reading these? Are you telling me? You'll play at my political price, do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u454	Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u455	This gentleman who personally addressed me, you have an obligation to inform him that for your days there is an absorption plan for the TEI at Amaliada to go to the Agricultural University of Agrinio. And he tells me about Korovo. The Corovo I personally applied for will join the TEI. What are these things? Is that how you make politics? Are you insinuating me to politics? Is that the moral advantage you have?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u456	Please don't interrupt speeches now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u457	There is also a limit, Mr President. There's a limit to tolerance. We cannot let anyone, without knowing who it is for, raise prices and suspicions. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u458	Okay, we heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u459	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u460	All right, I'll take care of it. Minister, wait a minute. We discuss education issues and have guest students in the gallery. Let us try to show the best possible picture in order to obtain a good picture from Parliament. Let's leave the irritations. Here, Minister, you have the floor, but please hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u461	Excuse me, but first of all why are you addressing me and making this incitement? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u462	Did I tell you? I addressed to the room.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u463	Mr President, I would like to ask you now. Is there any anticipated sentence or anything for MPs disseminating false news? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u464	If you see the Constitution, there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u465	Mr. Javaras says that the mayor told him that we are thinking of the first, second, third, second. So I say we calm down. To discuss specific matters, do not talk about dissemination.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u466	We agreed and agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty two students and students and four teachers from the 1st High School Artas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Sometimes we're a little vibrant. It's not a matter, though. Mrs. Keramea has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u467	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the reform and strengthening of the higher education technology sector is a political priority at the top of the New Democracy government's programme for education. For us, the fight against youth unemployment, the reversal of the trend towards mass evacuation of our qualified young people and the connection of higher education to the productive process are national objectives and we believe that these national objectives can, to a large extent, be achieved through the strengthening of the education sector. This, ladies and gentlemen, is our vision and we will fight to do so. Your vision on the other hand, your plan for the technological field of education is to shrink it, is to gradually eliminate it. Your primary concern is to remove monocontracted technological institutions, schools and departments and then to build new, without any plan, without any strategic targeting, conspiring them as - as. This tactic you choose as a vehicle for the complete disorganization of the country's academic map. Unfortunately, without any contraction, you continue your destructive work in higher education unsatisfactory, with your ears blocking in the reaction of the educational community, in all the opposite voices. In the case of this merger, these reactions are many. Among other things, the Larissa Municipal Council opposed the merger, TEI's prerogatives opposing the TEI's Senate, the Rector of Central Greece, to the contrary, not to say blurred. But are you, Minister, indifferent to these reactions? So, what are you doing in this bill? You are attempting to abolish the TEI of Thessaly and its absorption by the University of Thessaly and the abolition of the TEI of Central Greece, which after you have dissipated it, because after great regret we find that this is a dissatisfaction, fly - immediately to me - its members to three different institutions, the ETUC, the University of Thessaly and the Agricultural University of Athens. In some places, Minister, by reading the arrangements for the way you share the left and right sections, infrastructure, assets of the Central Greek TEI in the three other institutions, I felt like playing bricks with my three-year-old son. With such lightness, you seem to be deciding what's going to go where. But here we do not play and you are not allowed to work on education in the name of party service and humble pursuits. So remove two TEIs and anticipate their absorption. I, Minister, ask you six questions: Question One: These synergies as you call them euphemistically fall within a comprehensive plan? Do you have any overall plan to reorder the country's academic map? Obviously the answer is 'no'. Question two: These actions are subject to some objective criteria, some academic criteria? So far you haven't told us. So no criteria. Question 3: A feasibility study exists? Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u468	You don't read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u469	Where is he? Why don't you want to make public everything that's been done? Question four: Sustainability study. Is the new shape coming out? Is it sustainable? Give it to the interested parties to look at it. Question 5: Have you taken care of the professional rights of graduates? The answer is no. And the sixth question, was the competent authority, the IPPC, asked for this project? Did the evaluations of this independent authority take into account the institutions? The answer is, of course, no. All in the leg, all in the air, all on the basis of one single criterion how to ensure more votes. But because I have referred to the IPPC, let me, Mr Minister, just one mention of the newly reported ones. Minister, I am very sorry to say this, but you no longer respect the pretexts. The concept of independent authorities, apparently, is completely unknown to you. You have placed government adviser, your personal adviser, as head of the Independent Authority of Quality Assurance and Certification in Higher Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u470	We suggested.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u471	You suggested, right. The only lighter thing you could do would be to get yourself and this position at the same time...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u472	I can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u473	But you would like - I understand - along with your ministerial duties. You know, we will be very interested in the continuity of history, because the IPPC, this Independent Authority, has repeatedly criticised the reorder of the country's academic map you are attempting. And you, as a reaction, have degraded it, and you have dismantled the IPB from responsibilities, you have systematically ignored it, you have attacked it verbally at a meeting of the Committee on Morphic Affairs. And all this because, Minister? Why can't you stand criticism, you can't withstand control, you can't withstand the institutional counterweights, the so-called check-outs and balances. You don't want anyone to control you. That is why you are rejecting the independent authorities. But, Minister, I have a sincere anxiety, now that you have put your own man, your right hand, your personal counselor at the ADI, my great question is whether as magic now, you will give the ADI greater importance. I guess so. We're looking at each Finally, I would like to refer to the amendment on the system of permanent appointments of teachers. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to stress that this amendment is another hypocrisy of the government. Because it's good to see you here, but nobody talks about the elephant in the room. And who's the elephant? So I ask you: How many of the fifteen thousand appointments to general education will be made before the end of the government term? Zero. Notwithstanding the initial statements that appointments to general education will start in 2019, what expenditure have you written in the 2019 State Budget on recruitment of general education? Zero euros. So you're just legislating for when you're not government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, with regard to appointments - and I am ending, Mr President - we need to record in detail the gaps that exist in teachers throughout the country, in order to cover them and we need to renew the human resources of education. It is also undeniable that substitute teachers with self - disobedience, under very difficult working conditions, have lifted their shoulders the high weight of organic deficits in schools for more than ten years. We must therefore take this into account by mobilising the teaching service at an increased rate. But there are equally worthy and qualified young people who do not have a teaching experience, because they have not yet had time to acquire it. Shouldn't these young people be taken care of? Shouldn't they be given a chance? Of course you do. So in order for these young people to also have a chance at a merital appointment to the public school, we propose that a written tender should be held, the performance of which will occupy about 30% of all molecules. In this way we will ensure that there is an objective, fair and fair system. In addition to the performance of the competition and the teaching service, we propose that academic qualifications and social criteria be included in the pillars of criteria. Multitudes and disabled people must take special care of the state. Appointments must therefore be made, but in a manner, Minister, different from the one you propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, my colleague. The Parliamentary Representative of the Union for Central and Eastern Europe, Mr Megaloustakas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u475	Ladies and gentlemen, today we came to discuss a bill, which concerns the synergies of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, the Agricultural University of Athens, the University of Thessaly with the TEIs of Thessaly and Central Greece, the Palemnian Fund and other provisions. I'd say it should be a landmark bill and then I'll explain to you my speech because I'm saying that. We're going back to the committees. On Wednesday, 9/1, and during the third meeting of the Committee on Educational Affairs, the view was expressed by the Centro Association, whether this draft law now in plenary and perhaps it is the last one to come from the Ministry, as we are in the pre-election year - this year there will be elections, I do not know immediately or shortly later - it should bear the stamp of consensus, cooperation, a fruitful composition of ideas, long-term planning, acceptance and support for the educational community and, above all, the recognition of our society. It was sent with emphasis from the Central Association, at this third meeting, the strong message that this draft law that, according to its authors, will fundamentally reconstitute the landscape of higher education, which is provided as a follow-up to the interventions at the University of Western Athens, the Ionian University and the University of Ioannina, reaches a vote in a climate, I would say, extremely politicistic, in a landscape almost wartime, with a zero implementation period, as candidate parties who wish to exercise power over the next period already state their immediate abolition. Even before the Minutes of that meeting were printed, we verified in this political position, we saw what developments were about polarization and the war climate that exist in these days and will continue to exist in the next in Parliament. And now, in such a tense climate after a battle of trenches that took place yesterday, and in a multitude of reactions and another battle that is soon expected - with the educational community on the streets, with a lot of complaining - we are here to legislate for our youth. There are many points in the draft law that we fear will not be implemented and we are talking clearly about recruitment, because there is no apparent mood from all sides. We are here today, and we are legislating for our youth, without providing certainty, when we have to negotiate with all these young people, their careers, their studies, their entire lives. Are we going to legislate with a heart and mind on our youth and on its problems, or are we just coming here to operate mechanically, bearing in mind what will happen tomorrow in possible elections? Are we putting political benefit above the benefit of teachers and the educational community in general? We all have to ask ourselves today. Ladies and gentlemen, about three years ago, we have - I hope - all these benches with vision to offer for our place. That was at least my priority, and I had the determination to achieve it. I think everyone knows in this Chamber who deals with education that although we are the smallest parliamentary party, we are the ones who have a strong voice, which is heard on all relevant issues. We have always participated in all dialogues with political courage. We have tabled our proposals, so we have always been asked with a view to consensus and cooperation not only with the government but with all the parties within Parliament. I did, in 2016, have the honour of being the first Greek MEP, who brought to Parliament the subject of Brain Drain a problem of great importance. This should be a priority not only in this Chamber but also in all the institutions and the educational system and, more generally, in Greece. I was happy with remarkable partners, to formulate a position-fill plan, to propose measures such as broadening school time, equal access for graduates to universities, two-year compulsory education, but also to Erasmus staff, restoring the institution of standards and experimental schools - with a different procedure, of course, more school-friendly - but also to restore the use of the topic bank in no case, of course, in the way it existed in 2014. Many of our proposals have been implemented - because they were ours, because they were yours too - and it is something that cheers us and we expect others from our positions to legislate and, in our view, to help the educational system in Greece. We had the courage to support the non-deletion of students at a time of crisis, at a time when our young people, their families, put their hand in the pocket to find what's left. In fact, we have also made written proposals for the transfer and for student care. Whatever we proposed, no matter what we thought, we weighted it very seriously, always having the interest of our society as a criterion. After all, for this programme we submitted in 2016, we noted that investment in education is the one with the greatest added benefit to our country. Education should be viewed by all parties within Parliament as the most important pillar of our country's development, so we have never been negative in having further funds and increased spending on our education. This draft law, which consists of three parts and eleven chapters, deals with various issues. In the first and second part, we see that provisions concerning universities, synergies and cooperation are being developed. There are too many reactions here. You have heard them from many speakers today. You see the reactions. The comments in the consultation are characteristic. In the third chapter, which deals with too many issues, there are issues that have caused a great deal of noise. Before I refer to them, I would like to point out the positive sign of Article 33, which, for the first time, creates a Gender Equality Committee in the country's Gender Equality, and I would like to welcome that. However, in these articles, there are also provisions governing the permanentization and appointment of teachers. This is a very important issue. I have said too many times from this Stepma that we cannot base our education on nomads, because that is how we have made teachers every year migrate from city to town, from village to village, from island to island. But let's see what happened. We had a system that had erected and this was a number of reactions and shaped, and then a war climate with educational marches. If we return to 1998, we will remember that the then appointing system that abolished the yearbook and was based on an ADP competition, came to promise worthyness, age renewal, timely educational and pedagogical views at school. Nice ideas. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] But what has not succeeded and is it abolished today? I am sure that the governments' long-term responsibilities were the ones that deviated it and misused it. It's not the educational system. We didn't get a few good teachers out of this process. The level of teachers has mentioned it very much in here. They're the ones who keep our educational system upright. So we shouldn't throw the burdens elsewhere. We need to see what the responsibilities were. The greatest burden of responsibility falls on the non-appointment of teachers in places in need. It is not worth closing the eye on teachers, putting them into a controversy between themselves, letting them solve the problem themselves, without listening to them and adopting their positions. I know that whatever you brought here today, there would be reactions, but I think that a broad consultation, broad cooperation, would have the least possible reactions. It was very serious the episodes that took place outside today. That's not worth pedagogics, it's been afflicted for years by the state. This has been the case for years, selling hopes for assignments in distant years, which may not even be your Government. We're not futureologists. I would like to dwell on an amendment. When you legislated on this provision, we warned you. I am referring to the amendment on the terms of office of the Members of the European Parliament. We told you then it was wrong what you brought. You have not listened to us and continued a policy that we have criticised many times since this step forward its policy of'seeing and doing'. This is not the way we go about education. We are fighting and we should all fight in here to have a system of education that is friendly to our young people, to the people of this country. We can't walk like this. We, as the Centro Association, are presenting through this speech the lack of understanding that exists. You of the government and also of the Officer's Opposition, are strengthening this bulb into party trenches, so in no case can we support this draft law as it has come. In this context and as a protest to the whole picture of Parliament today, we will vote 'at present' in both the whole and all the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u476	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u477	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u478	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u479	Mr President, I would like to put forward some legislative improvements. It is a set of legislative improvements along with an amendment tabled by Mr Kourakis, which relates to qualified doctors and is in consultation with the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u480	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-one students and students and five teachers from the 1st Metsovo Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The New Democracy MP, Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u481	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on today's bill takes place on the eve of the government's vote of confidence in behind-the-spot transactions with its government partner, with lisbians and white marriages in exchange for ministerial chairs. While the government of falsehood and demagogy has already collapsed, it is attempting by artificial means to maintain in life, with willing MPs who have no humiliation to sell their faiths, but also those who voted for a chair. Behind all your "cooking" there is only fear of the people's will, which, however long as you delay your behind-the-scenes transactions, will be expressed and hard. You already know that in the people you are a minority government, which is why you are avoiding elections like the devil in Lebanon. What remains of this sad two-day day day is the trivialisation of politics, the intoxication and self-determination of MPs, who are running for a little power, to give a life-style to a collapsed government. Unfortunately, today, instead of a solution to the tragedy of the country by calling for elections, we are discussing bills as if nothing were happening. Ladies and gentlemen, the area of education was seriously affected in the four years of SYRIZA - ANEL governance, and this is where Paleolithic ideas of the narrow Syrian core prevailed. It was no coincidence that all three ministers who passed through the Ministry of Education's post had the same line, a line that saw excellence as a retina, who detested the opening of education in the world, which the universities left in the gangs of the "bugs" with the excruciating law on asylum. And now comes with this bill, to complete its work with decisions that do not require the rational restructuring of universities and TEI and the need to prepare young people for professional rehabilitation. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that in the past decades there has been an unprecedented explosion in the creation of schools and departments in many cases without any real need. The result is dozens of departments not to cause any interest in candidate students or to produce massive unemployed. But what is the Minister's answer to this problem? To abolish the exams to power the missing sections. This logic neither benefits children nor the same parts, which will be fatally reunited. But now, your pheasant idea of Nastrandin Hoxha's philosophy is to baptize TEIs in universities just by merges, without any rationalization and evaluation, and this is supposed to bring upgrades. The path you're following is wrong. Countries with an advanced education system. As Germany, Sweden and Austria invest in higher technology education both in resources and in people with the main aim of connecting it to the real economy, businesses and new technologies. But here, the Left suffers anaphylaxis in listening and only in the word market. I come specifically to TEI Larissa, one of the most dynamic technological institutions in the country. What were the criteria of his abolition? All the agencies tell you that you're wrong - the TEI Senate, the city council, the students - and yet you're deaf. At the TEI of Crete, however, you do not proceed to a merger but to an upgrade as an autonomous technological university. Were the pressures of the government MPs there stronger? Why two yards and two weights? Don't tell us, Minister, about academic criteria. Did you have a positive recommendation from the IPP to abolish the TEI of Thessaly and the merger? Was there an evaluation? Is your design done on academic criteria? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And what does the Minister do after this? He appoints in office an advisor to make sure his will is an order for the independent authority. That is, then, the spirit of the Left. A characteristic example of the two stations is the Department of Medical Labs, which, instead of upgrading as it happened at the University of Western Attica, which joined the Biomedical Sciences Department - and as it will be at the New International University, is the main cause of what international will be! - remove. And yet it is the second highest import base at the TEI of Thessaly. It has the most modern infrastructure, with facilities put into use this year, it has 13 academic staff, its graduates have guaranteed professional rights and considerable demand on the labour market. It is not possible to merge this section with the nursery, whose only common point is their build-up in the same building. For the ‘Averophilus Farming Technology Park’, we consider it to be functionally autonomous as a legal entity under private law. With regard to the recruitment of teachers, the complete omission of the AACC by abolishing the written examinations and reintroducing the year through mobilisation will not benefit education. In addition, there is no specific number of recruitments for both small and medium-sized enterprises, and we are talking about the huge demographic problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this government leaves a very negative tactic in all areas and, above all, in national matters. But he does the same in education. Its obsolete ideas while the whole world runs at a speed of light, impose everywhere the logic of the minor effort. Mr President, the solution to the political problem of the country with a government that is sinking into disrepute is one: Elections here and now for the sovereign Greek people to decide on the future of the Greek people and not on the basis of some willing Members for a long time, who, while elected as opposition, have been quick to offer a board of salvation to the deceiving government. It's time for the people to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u482	Thank you very much. SYRIZA MP Mr Kurublis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u483	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 'every grey science divided into virtue, panoramic and unwise' said Uncle Plato, seeking to demonstrate the relationship of science with man's virtue. So we are talking today about a new institutional framework, which is not about education in its general sense but about the education system in the country. What has been certified in this area for the last four years and is now confirmed is that this government at a time when the sovereignty of neoliberalism is expanding Euroscepticism, because social institutions in Europe are being demolished and social rights are being restricted, it is now a few months after the country's exit from the wonderful memorials, and it is trying to heal the country's national education system. Mr President, a few days ago this government made arrangements to simulate the staffing potential of a programme that I had the honour of with you and Manolis Skoulakis to plan and start. But it was a meteorological program, because no one took responsibility for these people who, in their work, justified this institution of the “Help at Home” programme. This government has just taken the opportunity after leaving the memorials to secure this institution, confirming on this side of the welfare that the state must assume responsibility for the creation of such social institutions and not let the heirs, the weak and the bereaved rise to their weak shoulders the problems they face from life. The same is being done today. So I am listening to the colleagues of the New Democracy, and I am glad to hear them, but the Greek people are listening to them too. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have not come from virginity. You have ruled home for many years, elected by the people - I am not saying - in the context of our democratic culture. What you're saying today, why didn't you do it? There's a question in the world. There's no low intelligence. What do you think? People don't think he's listening to us, what does each of us say? He doesn't have the abrasion in his mind to analyze what everyone says what he did not do. You come with a sense that this government has destroyed everything, and when the elections will come to get the power to save this place and the people, as you saved him all these years. Ladies and gentlemen, this government, and in the health sector, has shown that it believes in the public system. From the first moment when we had a million and a half people uninsured, you don't care about them. You've demolished the system. The same in the education, the same in the maritime education schools of the Ministry I was in. You wanted private education, but you didn't have the courage, you didn't dare do that either. And you come now and say, "Let it be done, too." This government has shown that it believes in the public health system, because as the late Andreas Papandreou said "in the face of life and death, all people must be the same". That's what we've been doing for four years and we're constantly donating it, and we're upgrading it. Because it is a firm choice to support the public health, education, welfare, what, unfortunately, you see confined to Europe. That's why we have yellow vest phenomena in France because they leave people to his luck. And here it is trying to demonstrate to the world that the look of this government is towards society. A few days ago pensions arrived. For the last eight years, the world has trembled every time the pension comes, has fallen. There were people who had a problem even with a 5 euro reduction. What happened in the last few days? Six hundred twenty thousand people saw an increase after eight years. Are you questioning that, too? Ask them. I have also asked colleagues in the New Democracy who tell me that they have come to their mothers to raise this time. So what we have to do is ensure this starting point, the same opportunities, that is to say, to all young people and young people at this starting point, so that their development is not the result of the family's economic and social position, but that it is the result of their own creativity, effort, patience and perseverance in achieving the goals of their lives, in order to put their lives on the path they want. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course I dare say that, in the issues of education, we must all - and the government and the opposition - open the doors and windows of our mental field, focus and focus on the concerns of everyone, because education is a particularly sensitive area of the life of this place. And we need to exhaust the healing deposits of our thoughts, without purpose, micropsies, micropolitical, deceptive locations. Only by such a spirit can we find the common place, and we need to find the common place in this matter, is an obligation for all of us. That is why the Greek people sent us here, not to deceive each other, but to cooperate at least on these issues in such a spirit that the country will go ahead and leave that logic of divisions and overpatriotism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u484	Mr. Curublis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u485	We all know the history of this place, the mistakes made from here and there and beyond. Let us learn from them. Minister, I would like to begin by congratulating you on the very fact that you have set up a programme for fifteen thousand public service recruitment in the public education system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u486	Mr. Curublis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u487	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u488	Finally, because my colleagues are protesting. We have a vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u489	I'll be done in a minute. So I would also like to stress what has been done in special treatment. This is the first time in the last fifteen years that has been committed in this way, showing that this government cares about those who cannot defend their rights because of their peculiarity, especially children with Down Syndrome and mental delay. And I would like to ask you - since, of course, you have listened to the requests concerning the teachers of HEIs and you have downloaded 50% as was right, because the percentage from there starts as the country's right and in other areas - to further exhaust the margins for children, scientists who returned to all of Greece, who went to atrocities, in difficult areas, which many times were unable to obtain for many reasons postgraduate...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u490	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u491	There is a need for law, please, even more exhaust the effort you have started to increase the molecules associated with the service and the molecules associated with the first degree. There may be another margin, and you will see that this will, indeed, touch the resolution of all these people's request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u492	Mr. Curublis, you have spoken for eleven minutes. If we keep this up, the vote will take place at 1.0 a.m. It's not possible. Please be in time. The next speaker is Mr Consolas, Member of the New Democracy. Please have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u493	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the future. That is what our parliamentary representative, Mr Javarras, said in his speech in his position from the Step of the House. Of course, once again I have the opportunity to say that if we wanted to talk about the future in terms of education in general and education in particular, we should have had discussions for a long time. We should have had a strategic plan for the upgrading of Greeks and Greeks for the coming years and the linkage of universities, the link between school and production which is not done today. The evolution of the SYRIZA-ANEL co-government in a government of 'currant', unfortunately, is also reflected in this bill, knowing the intentions of the Ministry of Education's leadership, which at practical level are not linked to any of those who wish, judging by their criticism, at the time that it was opposition, in relation to now that it is leadership. This practice, of course, has been adopted by the government for a long time now, and it has also been adopted in this bill. Because the image of the legislative work, unfortunately, is also reflected today as a ruthless practice, since a piece of legislation that is a lot of pages a little while ago was tabled. Allow me, Mr President, to focus on four points of the bill and to begin with issues relating to the foundations of the dissolution and merger of the TEIs. Mrs Kerameos, the Head of Education, said earlier that technological education is being disconnected from the country's production process. You are abolishing technological education when you are maintaining technological guidance structures, something incompatible and completely unreasonable in European and global data, i.e. abolishing TEIs, abolishing TEIs, without adequate preparation. Because it is characteristic that PPC members are literally airborne, since they are part of the general sections, and will even be integrated into sections of PDIs after they have been converted into parts of the PCIs, by an evaluation procedure by a committee, in order to determine which sections they will be integrated into. That's never happened in time. In fact, for a category of students who have expressed themselves publicly, I do not want to say that they are anxious about a category of students who are not well-intentioned like the students of Central Greece, the prospect of continuing their studies refers to presidential decrees, and it is highly doubtful whether they will be given the opportunity to study in some schools with relevant subjects. Minister, in order to proceed with such a major project, you should have done a serious preparation beforehand, consultation with the educational institutions, with the educational community. This is not the case, however, because, firstly, there was no evaluation of the departments and structures of the TEIs. Did you do it, Minister? No, you didn't. Secondly, academic criteria should have been dominated. Are they dominating? I guess there were improvisations and purposes. Thirdly, the upgrading and evolution of technological education is a deceptive dream. When the students of the department, for example, are forced to join the nursing school, you understand that in no case is this an upgrade of technological education. I would also like to refer to the question of the interconnection of the research sector with the market. Go ahead, Minister, on matters relating to regional research centres at the NRP and at the University of Thessaly. I think a few of us will probably find themselves building up a vision different from that we have used to so far when you say that we are going to link the labour market to these institutes. How, though, is their viability ensured when not all of these elements that you say are accompanied by a feasibility and economic study? Let me remind you at this point, Minister, because I know that at personal level you had the good intention - that the Research Institute of Rhodes-based Tourism, launched by the Samara Government, SYRIZA - ANEL, referred it to the bells, and finally canceled that perspective. Let me remind you that it was institutionalised by Mr.4310/2014. In fact, Article 13a(15) was what haunted this institution and then the presidential decree had been signed by the Minister of Education and the Minister of Administrative Reform, and for a few days the Minister of Finance was unable to sign, with the result being referred to the bells. I know your anxiety about tourism education and you know that at this time the country's tourism industry is very important to the country. So why don't you go ahead with these institutes, too? I put it in the Minutes to remember the FEK and also the draft Presidential Decree because they were all ready. I would remind you that there had been an extensive debate at that time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also remind you that, as you do not connect the country's production process to this institute, which would be an institute that would produce evidence of a sustainable policy on tourism, you do nothing to upgrade another production structure, i.e. ASE, of the highest schools of tourist professions, which, while you have expressed the intention to see it as a whole, are the only productive schools in the country that are not linked to upgrading criteria and are the only graduates, who, while entering full-scale, have no rated level. I would just like to remind you, Minister, that as chairman of the committee concerned, you had expressed the intention to discuss, on a proposal from all the Members of the parties in the committee responsible, the upgrading of schools. However, neither did Mr Philis then hear the establishment of the Department of HGI of Greek-language and foreign-language, which provided for a decree, nor did you then discuss these issues in committee, which could have been a fundamental debate on all the issues relating to tourism education, training and lifelong learning, and you also put such a perspective on the bells. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[???Στο σημείο αυτό ο Βουλευτής κ. Εμμανουήλ Κόνσολας καταθέτει για τα Πρακτικά τα προαναφερθέντα έγγραφα, τα οποία βρίσκονται στο \αρχείο του Τμήματος Γραμματείας της Διεύθυνσης Στενογραφίας και Πρακτικών της Βουλής???]] Ms. Kundura, as far as I can see, she's your closest government partner. She's gone from the ANELs. She's near you. I think the walls have fallen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can you, Minister, advise to upgrade ASE, make it at AEI level? Can you give the PM the value it needs, give it a graduation, give it the impetus it needs? You can. If you want, you can. Here are the signatures of all the MPs from all parties. I'm tabling this in the Minutes and that. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Finally, Mr President, allow me to speak just one minute on matters relating to appointments. I have very interestingly seen what you have tabled, Minister, on the new system of permanent appointments of teachers. I would like you here to turn to the great problem of demographics. If you think...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u494	Please, Mr. Consola, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u495	I shall conclude, Mr President. ... that you're going to give a push to the demographics, give more molecules to the polytexts and to the third families.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u496	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u497	For the reason that we need to give perspective and hope to teachers who have families of multiples and thirds, to continue this course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u498	Is that a better teacher?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u499	I shall proceed with this as well, Minister. Listen. We are talking about the incentives for staying, and I am linking this to island regions. There are colleagues here from the island regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u500	Mr. Consola, finish it up. Colleagues protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u501	Let me just remind you that in the context of the island regions, there are currently complaints and appeals from tens of thousands of teachers - I am tabling the signatures from all over the country - who are asking again to turn your interest into the categorisation I have told you before. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is the testimony from the Municipality of Leipson and the mayor, with the call to see the people who serve in island regions, to give them the impetus to return and not to stay vacant as it was this year. There is also the urgent resolution of substitutes for educational Karpathos who, for the same reason, beg you. And finally, there is a decision by the Kassos Municipal Council, the heroic island, which you also recently voted for and says the mayor and the Municipal Council: "Retire the bill." The New Democracy does not say so, 'because if it is finally voted on, there will be no teacher to serve in Kassos and in the island regions'. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With this I would like to ask you, Minister, to rethink this perspective and molecularisation, to invite you to the sustainable proposal of the New Democracy, to consolidate this perspective with the AACC, but, above all, to give the perspective to the three-tier, multi-tier and island regions, so that they do not follow the phenomena we have. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u502	Thank you. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You're absolutely right. Do you agree to interrupt the sound at seven minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u503	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u504	All right, we'll cut the sound in seven minutes. I can't do any different. Mr Emmanuelides, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes. I would ask you to be consistent so that we do not interrupt the sound. It is not nice to apply such measures to the House. I'm not saying this for you, Mr. Emmanuelides. I say this for everyone, because everyone protests, but when they come to Heave they talk more. What do we have to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u505	That's the method of the Profruit, that's the way it is. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today in plenary a draft law on education, since it has been drawn up in the committee responsible, and this is contrary to your best practice, I mean the New Democracy, to legislate by presiding decrees, which have, above all, been imposed on the frameworks for the operation of education. Let us remember the notorious 'Athena' project in this regard. With the debated bill entitled "Cooperations of National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Agricultural University of Athens, University of Thessaly with T.E.I. Thessaly and Central Greece, Pallemnikos Fund and other provisions” we continue the project of rationalisation and redeployment of the architecture of higher education in Greece, which started with the founding of the University of Western Attica and continued with the Ionian University and the University of Ioannina. In this case, the objective is to respond actively to international challenges, with the aim of overcoming pathogens and nuisances that hold higher education institutions well established, to reorganise institutions with the restructuring of departments and curricula, and finally, to become stronger, more dynamic and innovative, so as to meet both the needs of students and especially the needs of the country. These principles are referred to in this bill, which concerns three major universities, the University of Thessaly, the National Kapodistrian University of Athens and the Agricultural University of Athens and two of the largest Technical Educational Institutions, Thessaly and Central Greece. All five higher education institutions responded positively to the project and on their own initiatives and proposals, together with the state, in the remodeling of the map of higher education and its new architecture. I shall now refer to another expression of the Ministry's building, the establishment of an international university based in Thessaloniki, with which seven schools with thirty-two departments will operate in cities in central and eastern Macedonia, including my region, Kavala. This project of the Ministry was bravely characterized by the stakeholders, which was not previously abducted by any other government, which would give impetus to academic research and local communities together. Large university institutions to be formed will be able to claim research programmes and develop their infrastructures in order to meet modern challenges and requirements. In short, ladies and gentlemen, if the real role of the university is to shape the true concept of the term young people, to contribute to innovation and to make our democracy more rich, then the new structure of the Ministry of Education is in the right direction. I would not have intended to refer to the issue of the project of the imminent synergy between the international university and the TEI if it did not cause my logic of putting Mr Kyriazidis before me, who, among other things, has anticipated the commitment of Mr Mitsotakis to abolish it. I would like to focus on a friendly term of the Officerial Response, in which it comes back frequently when it comes to issues of education in the 'excellence' period. Three concepts compose reasoning. Aristocracy, aristocracy, family rule. Excellence, as defined by the New Democracy, is far from being a project in the design of education and society. For us, I would say, it is the saying of Thucydides that we honor the laws, and much more we honor those laws that are acting for the benefit of the wrongdoers. Our aim, therefore, is through our legislation and through our political practice to defend this element of promotion, support for the wrongdoers. In response to the term excellence, we have the project of strengthening special education, a concept which was forgotten by design by all previous parties, but above all by that of the New Democracy. I am also standing in the pretext of synergy, which is the front of all the work on the architectural redeployment of higher education. I must remind you that the first attempt at university and TEI synergy took place with the establishment of the University of Western Attica. You think it was random? No, of course not. As Western Attica is a region for years forgotten by god and rulers. So there we have been aiming at trying to exacerbate society and in this regard education, in an area that has been particularly downgraded all these years. Because time is squeezing, I would like to say a few things about the case of the circle blockage. I am obviously referring to the new system of permanent appointments of teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult from a narrow door, to pass armies of people who had been stacked over the decades either as substitutes or even - out of the chain of education. It is, in fact, very difficult and it must be understood that no matter how sensitive the arithmetics are shown, it is not easy to arithmetics. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President, if you're kind. We understand this heat and this anxiety of the people who have supported an educational system of doubts over the past few years, and we feel the impossibility of not being able in full to respond to their demands. However, our commitment to fifteen thousand alternates I think that this sensitivity is not virtual is real. And finally, we cannot resolve an unresolved or even dare to say unresolved problem, when we are always trying to strengthen one side and ignore the academic criteria, which are also a testament of effort, a statement of life. Nor can we close our eyes - and we are consistent with our intentions and declarations - in the social sensitivity that we need to show, in terms of supporting people with social problems. In conclusion, I would say that we all have to realise that in the new day that dawns for the place we have to be careful, with a reason not by screaming but with an agony for the country's tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u506	Mr. Philly, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u507	Ladies and gentlemen, I went out for a while when the vice-presidents protested. I must say that for the first time after many years it was not a demonstration against redundancies, but in favour of appointments, with a different view, in favour of appointments. This is a confirmation of the new phase of increased expectations and hopes, opportunities for gradual response to these expectations and hopes. We therefore have a dialogue with those who are struggling for their future and the future of education. The legislative initiatives and those which we have seen in the various amendments tabled today by the Minister are in the right direction. However, dialogue must take place without conditions of social civilisation, 'your death, my life', which we often see grows in crisis. Each year they apply for more than a hundred thousand candidates. Some twenty - five thousand were hired for SYRIZA days, much less. Thanks to these increased recruitments and especially to special treatments that have been multiplied in relation to the period of New Democracy - PASOK, we restored normality in schools, and we have succeeded since 2016 and then opened from the first day with teachers and books in their place. Of these hundred thousand have occasionally been hired thirty - five thousand. Not everyone can hire. Is there any political power in the Chamber that has written the arrest schedule of tens of thousands? And if we are satisfied with the appointment of thirty-five thousand, what about the children who come out every year from the universities? Also, what system will be used to classify those recruited if there is no appointing system? Where is everyone going? Which place? We therefore need a criterion and a system of appointments. For the problem of permanent appointments now. There are other possibilities with GDP of 240 billion before the crisis and others with EUR 175 billion after the crisis. The need for planning on the basis of new criteria. First, what school do we want and then what and how many teachers. Not a return to the past, when school was often dealt with by customer criteria and as a place of professional rehabilitation exclusively. Vocational rehabilitation must undoubtedly be taken into account, but within a framework of quality and evaluation, with the first priority of school, the interest of pupils. The proposed system goes hand in hand with the realities that have emerged in the time of the memoranda. Some forty thousand permanent teachers left in New Democracy and PASOK and were recruited up to twenty-four thousand alternates a year on SYRIZA. It is right to emphasise the pre-service of alternates. They are owed by the state and society. I stress that both the state and society. Because even during the memorandum period and recently, we see that society does not really evaluate, devaluates teachers. It's not just the hardships that teachers go and pull their devil, we know that, with small wages and social coexistence difficulties and family coexistence. Even in the rich tourist resorts with Airbnb you see what teachers are up to. Even homes don't find any houses, because our society asking for teachers' children is not, unfortunately, ready to sacrifice rooms from tourism, so that teachers can sit there. Not all societies, but unfortunately enough. Transitional and in the medium term the proposed system. We need to discuss the education of teachers seriously. Education of teachers as a prerequisite for their permanent appointment and continuing training. It does not mean no appointment without the person who ends the university, what an educational act means, so we want education for the teacher and it does not mean a training function without a system of permanent education for teachers. Unfortunately, on the second issue many millions, hundreds of millions of millions of people have been eaten to cover the gaps in undeterminedness from the money for training. In the national and social dialogue, we had discussed a plan for the education of teachers, which had to be put into public consultation and made, if possible consensually, a decision. I present to the Minutes of the House the minutes of the Management Board of the IPE, the Institute for Education Policy, which held the relevant debate. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In this context, it is necessary to draw up an adequate programme of theoretical studies for teaching and practice of any graduate who wishes to work in education either within the undergraduate programme or as an additional time. In any case, however, this programme presupposes a qualified scientific staff and a course with teaching units both for the single teaching area and for each cognitive region. We also know that this is in the Minutes of the 8th OEM Conference in 1997. I am referring to the relevant consideration of OLEME. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Educational programmes limit the number of those wishing to do so and respond to specific preparation. The choice is therefore a worthwhile one within the public education system. The written AACC competitions have not responded to the need for a substantial and evaluative selection based on the needs and specificities of education. Another thing is a written competition for customs and another thing is for candidate teachers to be chosen. Moreover, this diversity also requires the continuing training to which I have referred. The first appointments - four and a half thousand of the fifteen thousand - will take place this year in special education, proof of the essential interest and priority that the government has in the field of special education. They are the permanent appointments for the public school of equality and quality. And I stress are the first assignments to special treatment. The permanent appointments are therefore a prerequisite for the public school of equality and quality. On the other hand, the New Democracy programme for multi-speed schools pretexted excellence, questioning the universal right to education, with school managers, with students - customers, with incomplete funding, with charity from the private sector and with free-right teachers, for schools without democracy. It is a copy of thatsouric methods, which are even abandoned in Britain. In this disguised and devastated school, apparently, there is no need for mass appointments. That is why the New Democracy only consents with half the heart to the assignments to special education and essentially disagrees with other appointments to education. After all, these appointments do not fit into the New Democracy programme, when it says that for every five departures from the public sector we will have an intake, and not as SYRIZA says a withdrawal is possible. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that if the government were to be voted down yesterday, we were not going to discuss education appointments. And those who came out today for their rights on the streets and protested, does it make sense to think that if an accident occurred yesterday and did not confirm a choice of government stability, now that we are getting out of the rabbit of a crisis slowly and difficult is the truth, would it be better? Let everyone think about it before they answer it in a way, I'm afraid of being ruthless and cognitive. Obviously, through education as well as health, a programmatic confrontation is formed between a block of progressive forces with SYRIZA and a block of conservative forces with extreme right inclination and torso of the New Democracy. It is if you want a programme to create a new social majority, reflected at the political level too. Minister, I must congratulate you because today after so many years you have the luck of bringing a plan of permanent appointments to education. Good luck and good luck all the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u508	Mr Papadopoulos, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u509	Thank you, Mr President. We have a serious plenary today, and I see that only one Member of Parliament from Qualified Opposition is there. Why, ladies and gentlemen? You were saying things and miracles here. Yesterday you said it was a day - 'horn', and the Prime Minister asked your President to have a word. From what I read, polls show you 10% -15%. Why don't you make a debate with the Prime Minister scan it, get 25% and get out and clean up where you say the laundry? What scares you? I'm afraid this debate is not going to happen any time. Today is particularly important not only for university institutions but also for the government itself and specifically for the Ministry of Education, which, after numerous consultations and hard work, managed to implement his vision and win the bet he wanted, the new universities that emerged in the territory from university synergies and TEI, to be a pole of development for society away from introverted structures of the past, reinforced and openly for everyone. Public education is a living organisation that must change, adapt, be continuously strengthened according to the demands of modern societies. In addition, with a look at promoting research and innovation, the consultations have managed to achieve the bottom-up approach to the issue with democratic participation of all those involved who are best aware of the problems and who are able to propose practices for the completion of university physics and not from the top, from the centre, as has been done so far. This flagship bill includes a holistic approach to the transformation of the AEI - universities and TEI - through the coexistence of technological education, universities and research centres and institutes, thus harmonising public higher education with that of abroad. I will specifically refer to the University of Thessaly and the benefits for the city of Larissa and for Thessaly in general. At Thessaly University, three new schools are founded, one renamed in Trikala and two new ones in Larissa and are put into operation in the academic year 2019-2020 quite new departments. So Thessaly does not just lose from this bill but wins, because the new university will have a very strong presence in the city. It wins because the new divisions are very attractive and have all the possibilities to become an extrovert. It wins because the conditions for cooperation are created with the town's and wider region's productive players. The new university is set up a training centre, which will provide innovative two-year curricula as a follow-up to studies for PES graduates, opening up new prospects for higher education and contributing to the development of local societies and economies in the national economy. The cognitive objects of the two-year curriculum will be drawn up taking into account the proposals of local development agencies and will relate to the development and specificities of the areas where they are to be implemented. In addition, research centres will firstly contribute to the development of basic and applied research, secondly, the use of research results for the benefit of Greek society, thirdly, the specialisation of new scientists, fourthly, the provision of services to public and private bodies, fifthly, the combination of education with practice, and, thirdly, the mediation between the public and private sectors to develop research units in enterprises and seventhly, the promotion of Greek and Greek culture abroad. On the basis of all the above, it can therefore be seen that the Centre for Vocational Education and the University Research Centre create innovative, new prospects and open new horizons for young people in the region and not just while fully exploiting the infrastructures of Thessaly, which are integrated into the new university, to improve the production and dissemination of knowledge and skills. It's worth mentioning some of these institutes. Institute of Intelligent Production and Intelligent Cities based in the Volos, Rural Development based in Larissa, Genetic Improvement of Animals based in Carditsa, Diagnosis and Treatment of Cancer based in Larissa, Entrepreneurship and Innovation, based in Larissa. In addition, the new University of Thessaly is founded the "Averofio Agricultural Medicine Park of Thessaly". It is the first agricultural school to be held in our country. The park will run the agricultural production and processing-related vocational schools and the thermostat of young rural enterprises, with the aim of providing support and introduction to the business ecosystem of newcomers and technicians active in innovative products and services in rural areas. Structures are created, such as the Centre for Integrated Agricultural Education and Production of Standards for Local Agricultural Products, standard bioliquid farming units for the production of local agricultural products with characteristics and innovative properties in the context of a model production of minimised environmental footprint, standard greenhouse and unit of aromatic and pharmaceutical plants. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate, like many others in this Chamber, leads us to the same conclusion. We are constantly faced with a Civic Opposition, which has "caramella" in its political speech, the word private. It is, of course, logical to consider that most have not preferred public education or used public health and welfare structures. It's completely acidic that we're swinging the finger for public education by the proponents of excellence and the separation of degrees. This bill does not conflict, based on the composition, with two different views but with two different ideologies. That of socialism with a social suffrage and that of neoliberalism with a mark of profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u510	Thank you, too. The Minister for Finance, Mrs Papanatsiou, has the floor to support her amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u511	Thank you, Mr President. This is the amendment with a general number of 1925 and a specific number of 222. It is an amendment with two articles tabled by the Ministry of Finance, aimed at supporting and facilitating our affected fellow citizens from the fires on 23 and 24 July. The first article of the amendment extends the deadlines for payment of the certified and regulated debts and the payment of the dues suspended until 31 December 2019. Who is involved in this arrangement? It concerns persons who have suffered physical harm by themselves or their spouses or relatives to the second degree either lost a spouse or a relative to a second degree or have suffered material damage to their property. Also until the same date, no accounts seizures are imposed on credit institutions and any payments are withdrawn. The second Article extends the date on which the exemption from the payment of the EMI for 2018 was granted, by extending the deadline for the issue of the re-check sheets of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport to include property for which no re-checking document has been issued up to 27 September 2018. We give them a new date to be issued later, until 28 February 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u512	Thank you, too. We continue with the MP of the Communist Party of Greece and Vice-President of the House, Mr Lambroulis. Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u513	Thank you, Mr President. Undoubtedly, the proposed mergers that are being promoted through the bill are neither random nor independent of the general developments. Taking into account what is stated in the explanatory statement on the specific changes made to TEIs with universities, we consider that the issues that need to be answered are. What is the aim of these changes? Who's benefiting? Are they, for example, the prospect of training integrated scientists to help satisfy people's needs? What should be claimed, so that students, workers, etc. do not pay the marble again. Is it not true that these restructurings constitute the implementation of a specific policy, the adaptation of higher education to the declared objective of harmonising European Union universities in the strategic direction of meeting the profitability of monopolistic groups - a declaration by Bologna - through, of course, the single European area of higher education? This contract was undertaken both by the previous governments - a "ATHENA" project - and then by the current government by adapting higher education to the objectives of capitalist development, fair growth in government, that is to say, support for the profits of large companies which, in the context of regional development, require a direct and flexible link to the content of the two-year training programmes so that graduates have the necessary training to exploit themselves as a flexible and cheaper workforce. This very objective of companies and businessmen, who are active in the agri-food or in the private health sector in Thessaly - who are pushing in this direction - comes to serve the government by creating, for example, the Vineyard at today's 'Averofio' School in Larissa at the University of Thessaly. In other words, the labour force through practical training and apprenticeship as well as free research! At the same time, the establishment of the two-year university study programmes closes the government's eye to those seeking to expand their business and to universities. So behind propaganda to upgrade the quality of study and so-called university, classifying graduates with the forming of classes, diplomas, certificates of various categories within the university itself is promoted. This is the demand of entrepreneurs, to be able to order and choose skills from a wide range rather than from graduates with integrated studies and the same rights. Obviously this multiclassification along with all the other obstacles that come in to study and work, such as pre-services, exams, seminars, certificates, adequacy and others, is not going to help the graduate find a more easily or better job. On the contrary, it favours it, and reigns, where employers will show the unemployed' army to blackmail to reduce rights and subjection. This means a competitive worker from competitive departments and schools and within the work jungle graduates to be swept apart for a poorly paid job. And the promotion of these restructures in higher education is being carried out at the same time, which is continuing at a time when the underfunding of higher education continues, the tuition in postgraduate courses are becoming general, the content of studies is weakening, feeding and housing is becoming increasingly difficult for the children of workers and people's families, the teaching staff are not enough to cover the elementary of the curriculum, the coverage of the teaching gaps is limited to the generalization of the positions of university scholars - who are forced to work in a job-creating way - while the business function of the higher institutions is deeper. That is why there are no illusions about the upgrading of study, which is supposed to arise. Is this really a change in the direction of a single higher education exclusively public and free of charge? Is it a truly uniform higher education with the formation of a single degree per scientific object, which is higher than a university level? Will the degree be the only condition for access to the profession? Will postgraduate studies constitute a single cycle and lead to the acquisition of a doctoral degree, for those who are intended for university teachers or for professional activity in the field of research? Will the application of science to production by students be organised and systematically carried out through the same educational process and not as is the practice today aimed at providing poorly paid and "black" work for large enterprises? The institutions will have modern infrastructure and equipment, stoves, clubs? Will students enjoy high-level benefits with the responsibility of the State without charge for their studies? Will education and administrative staff be permanent, full-time and full-time? The above are, of course, some of the JRC's proposals for uniform higher education, which responds to the concerns and questions of students, students, teachers and workers. And it is realistic, because it falls within the needs and capabilities of today, as determined by the development of the means of production itself, of scientific and technological knowledge itself. At the same time, it is the only one that can give greater strength and perspective to the daily struggles of students, students, teachers, to improve the conditions of study and work. So let those who listen to us and see us today decide. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u514	Thank you, too, Mr. Lambroulis. He has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u515	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is a pragmatic demonstration of the importance and importance of the process of giving the government a vote of confidence. It is the first time after nine years - and it is with the SYRIZA Government - that the Greek Parliament is discussing how the permanent appointment of fifteen thousand permanent teachers to education will proceed. And that in itself has its own meaning. Ladies and gentlemen, our government has taken initiatives to support public education at all levels since the very beginning of the government. At a time of difficulty for Greek public education as a whole, the government has firmly and clearly chosen to protect and upgrade public schools and public universities. The previous governments methodically reaped the university through the underfunding, the treatment of education as a good that had to obey market rules, the constant effort to revise the article 16 of the Greek Constitution for the establishment of private universities in Greece, the dissolution of the Greek University through internal regulations that called into question the autonomy of the Greek University. Governments from 2010 to 2015 saw the memorials as an opportunity to attack basic conquests of the youth movement over time in our country, one of which is the public and free school and university for all. In addition, with a vengeful trend, they turned against the entire public administration with mass redundancies from the public and "frozen" of all recruitments, which the public administration so needed. From 2009 to 2015, the public administration of the country has been shrinking, while important areas such as health, education, as well as remote, mountain and insular areas are facing and confronting a significant subsistence problem. In the field of education as a whole, there has been a dismantling of the country's capacity, a "fresh" of permanent recruitment. A series of people in education, however, chose to support efforts for a good school for the children of this country, occupying substitute posts, supporting the operation of the hundreds of schools in the country. Now the Greek Government, having exceeded the mortar of monuments, has the space to develop policies that are discriminatory in favour of the world of work and youth. One of these is the recruitment of teachers. And it is important to consider how the permanent appointment will take place. Improveability of the procedure is given priority, and that is why the procedures through APA guarantee it. It's important, too, that we don't have tests through the AAP, but only molecules. It was a constant request from the educational community. I read the explanatory statement of the draft law: "The power to strengthen, upgrade and reconstruct public administration is its people. Through the development and operation of an integrated framework for human resources management of public administration, the most powerful foundations for organisational and operational changes and the renewal of the concept of public administration by the influx and utilization of new knowledge in the direction of strengthening the efficiency and efficiency, innovation and the high added value of its action are laid down. However, we should stick a little to the criteria of mobilisation of qualifications set by the bill under discussion. One is the duplicate that actually exists: Pre-service or formal academic qualifications? The neoliberal concept of higher education - as expressed by the Bologna Treaty - was intended to reduce the degree by reducing its duration to three years and converting the student - future worker to a hunter of formal and non-standard qualifications and credits to strengthen his position on the labour market. That is why all diplomas are three years old, known and bachelors, and then almost certain and compulsory for all young people to follow the process of claiming postgraduate diplomas. Faced with this effort in Greece, the movement of students, teachers, universities and students and obviously SYRIZA who chose to play a leading role in this process, claimed and demanded the support of four years and five years of study, the four-year and five-year degree with all professional rights in it. We also supported and argued that postgraduate and doctorate are not molecules titles but a very serious choice for anyone who would like to serve the research. The conversion of postgraduate and doctoral degrees into molecules that will ultimately be enough to become a teacher or teacher, reduces the public degree and its value, as well as the notion of the master's and doctor's own, as it sends the message that the degree is not enough to work in the country but on the contrary you have to constantly hunt academic content molecules. So you're being a teacher, a hunter. And who can continue his studies even after the first degree? Surely someone who has financial comfort and time. There is, however, a very large portion of the graduates of the Greek people who do not have the financial comfort or the time to be able to claim postgraduate qualifications but require and try to join the labour market. Finally, people who supported the public school, through the place of the deputy, do not recognize the effort. Finally, the government's effort to support the public university is acknowledged. We must bear in mind that Greece is provided with high levels of knowledge at all levels and that in Greece a high level of scientific staff has been produced, which we must and demand is left to the country. On the other hand, however, the effort of thousands of deputies who chose to enter working life should be recognised, taking over their place of assistant teacher and teacher, supported the public school all these years and did not continue their studies either because they did not want or because they could not. It is very important that we continue to protect the validity of the diploma, not to bring either inadvertently or from the back door, neoliberal logic that breaks the single degree, which challenge the professional rights of this student, who ultimately turn the graduate into a hunter of formal and non-formal qualifications. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I find it very difficult to defend this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u516	Thank you. Mr Hatzishavvas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u517	Mr President, it's like a bad dream that you're trying to get somewhere and it's going off the hook!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u518	Mrs Vageias, Mr Hadjisavvas intends to give you his position, but as you know, the parliamentary representatives when they are asking for the floor are before you under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u519	I have changed seven times, Mr President. It's like a bad dream.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u520	Be patient, but Mr. Hadjisavvas says to give you his place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u521	To speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u522	Here you go, Mr. Hajisavva.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u523	Thank you, Mr President. I understand my colleague, because I also waited until all the amendments were here late. I am speaking at 21.00 p.m. and they are still tabling amendments. You got a fragile majority yesterday, with a hundred and fifty-one volunteers, but these hundred fifty-one will be tested in every roll-call vote. And it is almost certain that opposition to any bill that comes will also bring a roll-call vote. Normally you should not bring any draft law and no legislative function, and you should go directly to elections to get a new mandate, as the Prime Minister said before 2015. Of course, if we take what the Prime Minister and SYRIZA Members said before 2015, we want too much time. But we can easily respond after that he did not do anything and it is a common answer for everything. You continue, of course, to enlist a party army to the PASOK standards by means of assignments. You are stealing by appointments of former neo-democratic voters who have waited for years but the New Democracy has appointed left-wings and the neo-democratics have seen them. And you are completely plundering and nullifying PASOK, you are taking all the voters to him, not helping them because no one has left, who is not appointed, just giving him any promotion, take him to no better position. About today's bill I heard you talking about consents. The e-mails, however, of the members of the competent Morphics Commission filled with messages of protest. There are complaints about the abolition of medical laboratories in one section, about pre-service molecules which do not go to tritecs and polytecs. People are in despair if you read their messages. And what are they? Is it not the people you want there to be a consensus that you are discussing? Are they enemies of the state? Is it the fault of either education or the economy? Aren't they 'our children'? Isn't that what you say 'the people'? They are few, however, numerically and as an election clientele you do not care about and sacrifice them on the altar of a more massive and larger one. I shall refer more to the complaints made by the threeteen and tents, since the position of the Golden Dawn on demographics is in favour of the laundry, in favour of the birth of new Greeks in the fight against fertility. However, everything is of direct relevance to demographics. Unfortunately, demographics are now a problem. We should have a minister and a public service dealing only with the birth of new Greeks to combat this problem. Unfortunately, however, there is no such provision and we see it from the bill. We also have the letters from the luxuries who say: 'We want you to consider the consequences of abolishing an additional measure to support luxurious teachers. The epitome of the problem is that every decision taken by the government against luxuries has consequences in the short or long term at all levels and levels of our economy. In particular, in Article 5 of the draft law, the criteria for evaluation tables of general education education shall refer to specific modulations and to the total of two hundred sixty modalities provided for...’. For example, a multitude of four children can get only eight molecules out of the two hundred sixty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u524	No, they're up. It's 12.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u525	Twelve out of two hundred sixty. In addition, however, these molecules are not only taken by the multitudes, so it is not actually subsidised to make many children, to do three, four, five, six, but also one, to take these molecules, so the distance from the tents is reduced, which could take these positions. There is no provision, therefore, and no particular provision of the state that is clearly mentioned in Article 21 of the Constitution, in paragraph 2, that multiple families, disabled families, war and peaceful periods, victims of war, widows and orphans of those who have fallen into war, as well as those suffering from incurable physical or mental illness, have the right to special care by the state. We see that overlooked. "You should understand, however, that when we serve the interests of the luxury, it is not in the narrow sense of serving the personal interest and is in the service of the general public interest," the tenants say. There should therefore be maintenance of the laundry project in the new lists of alternates of this draft law and the three-tiers and a separate intake of at least 20% of laundry and an additional percentage for the third-twelves. It has a series of proposals that should be adopted in relation to the molecules that will be given. And all this comes to confirm them by IOBE, that Greece is ageing and the student population is falling. The population of Greece is ageing rapidly, and we have a great decline in the school population, due to many factors, such as the sharp decline in births, mainly from 2010 to the present, which is shown by the entire Greek study of the Foundation. Why did the births fall? Suddenly Greeks don't want to have children? They cannot survive, many of the children find it difficult and young people emigrate abroad. Even WASHINGTON POTTON has an e-mail article asking where all children went and how the economic crisis brings Greece a demographic problem. In all this comes your response as a nationalist government, and today the information comes for the public consultation of a draft law which speaks of a national strategy for the integration of refugees into society. This, of course, was also a key axis of the New Democracy, when it supported the UN Pact in Morocco recently signed. Is that how you're gonna solve the demographic? With a change in Europe? That is what we know is a project of Europe's industrialists, those who originally set Europe up. Europeans can no longer work because they are old, they have great demands, so you must bring young people from Asia and Africa, who will not have any great demands, and they will also be at a similar age to work and make this mobilisation of the South of Europe. It says this consultation "more active participation in local government", so you probably want to solve the problem of your political survival. You also bring an amendment to the Islamic mosque, with various means of problems you face - arrangements for economic data, etc., how you are involved in combating anti-Semitism and intolerance and fanaticism, when the vast majority of attacks with a religious character, over 90% in Europe and Greece, are at the expense of Christians in priests and temples, I cannot understand it. Of course, how do you involve this issue of hatred, namely anti-Semitism, but are you also in favour of Islamics? Do a social experiment. Let all of them live in a society, Islamics and signifiers, see the effects of peaceful coexistence and let us miss the "bad Christians" that create all the problems. So we as your Golden Dawn have the solution for the mosque and the problems that arise. Cancel the building and operation of the mosque and prevent the Islamization of both Greece and Europe. But with all the things that are happening in a way well organized against the Greeks, you are trying to make fun of them in the face of the virtual divorce of SYRIZA - ANEL, but it does not seem to be the case in committees and plenary sessions. There's full support for it, and I'm on it. All the ANELs vote and today they will vote. Here, even the Athens Exchange, which is affected by the slightest suspicion of a government crisis, even by the change of weather, in this particular case of supposed divorce, was not affected at all, as if it never happened. Because, quite simply, it never happened. Four MPs in favour of SYRIZA passes the bills with a hundred and fifty-one but also two MPs in favour of the ANEL Parliamentary Group to have the ANEL Parliamentary Group. An impeccable dynamic parliamentarian base management, whose algorithm would envy him and programmers. In conclusion, I should like to stress the selective sensitivity of the democrats. When posters are printed and they call "death" and "Crack Gold Dawn MPs" with photos deleted, threats, phones, messages all good. When a song goes out and says publicly "to die, golden MPs and voters" - I have tabled it for the Minutes in my previous speech - all good, nothing, no one minds, no democracies are bothered. So now you're after some Greek citizens, who react in a way of their own, print posters and get stuck from here and there - I'm not talking about messages threateningly - and these posters only have one question: 'You're you gonna betray Macedonia?' If they asked me this question, I could clearly say no. Why do you mind? Why do you react like this? It's a question. There's no threat. They keep putting us on the Internet, in newspapers, in posters, everywhere, our offices come out and they call for death to the Chief and the MPs. Can we also get the messages and cry in public? This is, of course, about intimidation, because you fear the massity of the people who will again flood the squares, which of course will stumble and shout once again that it opposes the suppressed Prespecies Agreement. Now if you think that you're targeting me, persecution and threats the Greeks will be afraid when they have a story of reaction and resistance, you're really wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u526	Thank you very much. Finally, SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Baguea, has the floor, so he won't complain. Come on, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u527	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important bill, in which there is a very important amendment to this way of recruiting teachers. Both are very important because they concern education. Education, education and real education are, in my opinion, the most powerful weapon of every people. As regards the merger of the TEI of Thessaly with the University of Thessaly, this is an undertaking that caused many discussions, disagreements, objections and consents. Here, once again, I would like to say to my fellow Members, Mr Kelles and Mr Keramos, that they remain only in the decision of the October 2018 Senate, which was negative in terms of the association, and are not at all mentioned in the decision of the second convention, which was made on 9 November 2018, which was in line with the merger, of course with many proposals to improve the draft law. In order to be fair, however, we must also say this second decision. Larissa-based TEI Thessaly is a very dynamic and powerful educational institution, which has been fully connected to the life of our city, Larissa, and the wider area for almost forty years. Surely his upgrading to university is very honorable for our city and also for educational staff and students, as long as it is proved in practice, because often political planning fails and life comes in practice to degrade them. I hope and truly hope that the enlarged University of Thessaly will become a model of educational establishment, worthy of our expectations and worthy of all those who have worked to create it. I now come to individual issues and first to a positive measure in my view. This draft law provides for the establishment of research institutes. We should not underestimate the role of these institutions at all, because research is just as important as education. I am pleased that the Minister has accepted my proposal to transfer the seat of the Institute for Rural Development to the Municipality of Killere. The creation of this institute will effectively complement the process of activation of the establishment - and I hope that it will be set up - National Museum of Agricultural Movement Killer. It will create a triangle of local, regional development with references to history - this will be the museum - in research - this will be the institute - and agriculture. The municipality of Killer is the largest rural municipality under the ‘KALIKRATI’. I believe that with the creation of this institute based in the Municipality of Killere, and in particular the Municipal Shop of the Local Community of Killere, new jobs will be created, visited and a significant boost to the development of the region. Another positive provision in the bill is the two-year vocational education centres, a provision which, in my opinion, enables children with limited financial resources to study at a higher level in a short period of two years, which will enable them to find work. I am now continuing with an issue that has caused strong reactions and rightly justified, in my view. I am referring to the Department of Medicine Labs of Thessaly, an excellent department, according to general confession, even according to the Dean of the University of Thessaly, which has a high degree of import and, above all, a direct professional absorption of something very important in these days. With this bill, unfortunately, this section is abolished. Of course the already existing students will have the opportunity to complete their four-year studies. I have been from the first moment that I was informed by students and professors of the department, contrary to this perspective. I tried as much as I could in the committee where the bill was discussed and with my personal interventions even by letters to the Prime Minister to prevent it. Looks like I didn't make it right now. The argument on the part of the Minister of Education and the Rector of the University of Thessaly, Mr. Mamouris, is that they do not have the agreement of the university. However, I managed to extract - and, of course, with the Minister's intervention in the letter to the dean - the express commitment of the dean that, soon before the end of this academic year, he will accept the request of the students of the Department of Medical Labs, giving them the opportunity to graduate from the Department of Biochemistry - Biotechnology, since they have completed two additional years of study in this field and the continuity of the Department of Medical Labs as a direction to another school at the new university. I expect this commitment to be made and I will monitor its development. For the time being, I declare my reservation on Article 22 on the establishment and rename of departments. If I could, selectively, vote against the non-existence of Departments of Medical Sciences. In conclusion, I would like to address the department students and thank them for the honor they have given me and the confidence they have shown, asking for my help in their efforts. I would like to say to them and to all the students, that they are always dynamic and active, such as now, to claim what they consider right but also to respect their studies and economic sacrifices made by their parents to study them, but, above all, to exploit these wonderful years of youth and their studies, by gaining real knowledge, but also by living them as active citizens, and thus staying throughout their lives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Very little time, Mr President. I would also like to say something that I mentioned in my committee position. Universities and higher education institutions must be carried out and operated with their main concern and not the teachers, because sometimes this objective is lost in syndicated interests. Good power, guys! Good luck in your life! You will allow me, Mr President, to conclude with a reference to something personal. In a few days it closes two years when my life’s companion, Lucian Kiladon, left. Do you know what kind of comforts me about his absence in what happens these days? I say: Fortunately, Luciane, you're not here to see the downside of some of your companions you loved very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u528	Thank you, too. We proceed, after Mrs Vaguea, to the MP of SYRIZA, Mr Cameroon. I would ask you, too, to keep the seven minutes, Mr. Kamatere.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u529	Mr President, I will try not to embarrass you because we are compatriots, as you have been in a difficult position with our compatriot Mr Consola. That is why I am not going to say the general ones that have been said about the bill. Of course it's in the right direction, of course it's cut. I'm going straight to the point, making use of my time. Minister, he has a deficit in islands. Article 101 of the Constitution requires each bill and any administrative instrument to take account of islands so that it does not have a negative impact on the development of the islands. This is where we have a problem. I have told you in committee, but because it is characteristic, I repeat the example of highlighting the problem. I was traveling for Kastelorizo with an undetermined teacher. We went one night and even though we helped him find a home, where he'll eat, where he'll go, etc., the next day he left. Why? He was gonna take 800 euros as an appointed deputy. Only to travel from Kastelorizo to Athens, to go and come, he wanted 500 euros. If he took the ship, he needed thirty hours. Not only did the payroll get him, but he had to put it in his pocket. I leave social life, which is nonexistent, because there is nothing there in winter. What did I want to say with that? I wanted to say - and I proposed in particular - that we should get some molecules the identification of graduates on these small islands. Let's not be in Rhodes, let's not be in Kos, let's not be in other places, even though there are problems there and at some point we should have discussed them. Let it be in the small islands below three and a half thousand inhabitants, as we have voted on 'KLISTHE', and it is predicted that small islands are under three and a half thousand inhabitants. We don't ask much. Moria, we're asking. I will show you, however, below that not only molecules should be given to them but these inhabitants of the smaller islands we had to pay them to stay. A second issue concerning moleculosis, Minister, before I say in general how we should care for these small islands: what do we say to the teacher who has a student in the Arkians? She has two or three years if I'm not wrong there, and she went there by calculating her molecule, or she wouldn't. What are we gonna tell her now? That these years don't count the molecules, but does the real agency count? We are not calling again for these teachers to be mobilised in all the islands, because there are islands that have developed their populations. But we have declining islands and that's what I want to talk about. Minister - and I am addressing everyone - on the occasion of education, because I know that, in discussing the measures we need to take on the islands for education, it is not all we need to discuss. It is no accident, however, that in my first speech in the House, I had spoken of education for the Arquis, for Maria, for the child who ended primary school, could not go to high school, even though he wanted to do so yet. And I'm sorry that today I'm talking about Maria, who, of course, didn't study, left the island, got married, had two brothers, left one ending primary school, and she's one left and she's gone, and that closes school. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the responsibility of the Minister, of course, that is all of us. We have a hundred seven islands inhabited. It was a few years ago, a hundred and sixteen. A few more years ago it was a hundred twenty-eight. Eighty-one of them, 80% of the islands, have less than three and a half thousand inhabitants. Do you know how many people are? It's fifty-four thousand. In our eighty-one islands, the inhabitants are fifty-four thousand. Without a school, it's twenty islands. Under 100 inhabitants the islands are twenty-eight and have six hundred ten inhabitants. Less than three hundred inhabitants are thirty - eight islands and have two and a half thousand inhabitants. Under one thousand inhabitants are fifty - six islands and have about fourteen thousand inhabitants. That's what we're talking about, and we can't care about, and I've been trying to convince the Treasury that they don't pay IBI on these islands, and I can't make it. Okay, we had the memos. Now we're out of the memoirs. There is a grandmother in China and she pays ENVY and she has 24% VAT, and we kept the VAT only on the islands of immigration with a fight. We're out of the memoirs. Let's fight these. It's unacceptable. He's got five people in Marathi. There are five residents who have a tavern. Not only do they pay HISPIA, not only do they have 24% VAT, but they have been sued by the public, claiming their property, because the papers they have are not strong because they took them from the Monastery with a Byzantine gold bulb, etc.. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as we have made progress in islandity, we have taken serious steps, as we have reached the Prime Minister and gave orders and created a framework of island policy, as we have achieved the transport equivalent, where others said that we cannot implement it, as we have managed to do, when others could not keep it, even on these five islands, because we were in the memorandum, as we are now considering the categorisation of the islands, which will help in the exercise of all this island policy, as we are studying on the coastline how to do sectors and not do simple management, so we need to study what we do with keeping the inhabitants on the smaller islands. These are the small islands. Fifty-four thousand. We won't have anything in a while. Schools are closing. People are leaving. Consider the consequences of all this. As we have achieved all the other things, therefore, the islands will be pushed to the end, to the end, to become a Ministerial Council, which will take steps to ensure that not all these islands are devastated. In this respect, Minister, I expect you to make a contribution, and this is why today's proposal is nothing but a vote in all this mosaic that has to be done and that so far forces us to run from a bill to a bill to hunt the consequences of islandism, for which there is no central planning. This is our concern today in this bill and I look forward to your sensitivity to take an initiative and do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u530	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u531	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u532	The subject raised by the honourable Member is obviously very serious. It is also obvious - and you know it - that in too many islands there are schools with few children. We have schools with two children. A month and a half ago, we managed and opened a school in Antikythera with four children, who appeared after September. On the other hand, the problem you mentioned - and obviously it is not just about the Ministry of Education, as you said - is a real problem. On the question of teachers, the right solution is, in essence, to take a fine above. Anything else is in this extremely complicated way of appointment, because it is unconstitutional. If someone else wants to go and has more molecules, and they're more molecules than the molecules in extra particles due to locality, you can't prevent him. It is a matter of citizens' equality. So there must be incentives and economics and, obviously, what must be done is to see the future of demographic development and to be able to plan the lives of schools. That's what we do and that's what we do. It's just that this doesn't have the consequences it can keep the world there. This is our big problem and, of course, after primary school is high school, then high school is high school and there there are huge "holes" and you are absolutely right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u533	Minister, we had discussed this issue on several occasions and had, in a way, the idea of telepathy, namely that these islands should be connected via the Internet to a standard high school or high school, so that existing teachers there can pass a knowledge which cannot be broadcast otherwise because of the number of teachers' children and specialty. I think this is an issue that, if it goes along with the Ministry for Digital Television, could solve these problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u534	Mr President, there are indeed too many teachers, almost everyone, who use this. The big question is whether teachers adopt this life there as part of a lifetime that has to do with the community as a whole. It's not a technical matter. The question is how you practice your profession there, and it is important what Mr. Kamaeros says, that is to say whether a local wants to stay on his island and because of a system that works horizontally can't stay. This is affected and this means separate tables, something that the educational community as a whole reacts to. He wants a consensual. Nevertheless, I am telling you that if anyone else wants to go and has more molecules, despite the extra molecularisation of locality, there is an issue of equal access to the profession.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u535	Good. The speaker of SYRIZA Mr Dimitrios Sevastakis has the floor. Mr Sevastakis, I would like to give you more time, but you know that time is limited to seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u536	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the timely commemoration you have given me. Minister, to see demographic evolution you don't have to think much. With the bitterness and stress that one is going through, demographic development is specified. We need to find tools we can answer. Also, this issue of locality is not only about paying special premiums for someone who comes from there, but about investing in staying, going to be "blue-blowing". This grounding is an important quality element of education. I think technically a credible solution can be explored by the lawyers. I'll start my location upside down. I am not very fond of making reference to previous meetings, but yesterday there was a huge debate on institutional aberrations. Today, we are in front of hints, which have to do - first of all - with preconceived, predetermined disagreements in the committees, so it will be difficult for the committees to make decisions and support the bills, and secondly, with the procedural exhaustion and fatigue that this will create in this House, because of the roll-call votes. Both of them seem to me to adopt, to make a choice to slow down institutional, legislative and productive, which, in my view, is incomprehensible. The MP is voting. It is not intended to be placed on the basis of who is "downloading" a bill, but on the basis of what it contains, what it builds, what is recommended by the bill. Therefore, this regime of institutional freedom, legislative freedom and thinking of freedom is neither prejudiced and prejudicial to dispute, nor is there this dogmatism of the roll-call vote, which I think is simply paralyzing and tiring up procedures. I'll go back to the bill. The rhetorical question at the beginning of the debate was which university we want for the 21st century. Let's put two notes. At the moment in our country we have no production quality, that is to say, we have nothing to draw the cognitive fact, to push the tertiary, to push it forward and - secondly - we have a terriblely malfunctioning administration. I think that these two parameters highlight what many speakers have said the self-esteem of knowledge. Here I will come to an interesting, as always, position of the rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Delis. In fact, she says: When you disassemble, you disconnect the diploma from the profession, her knowledge and direction, her cognitive discipline are essentially deprofessionalized." In its distorted version, the New Democracy also uses this argument, a connection between knowledge and market. We cannot in today's reality have cross-border, interdisciplinary, and we cannot have a new university in organisational terms. As far as the university is concerned, which has de facto invested in the 1980s and before the dispersion, this must be transformed into an advantage. So this local freedom, that is, dispersal, even though it seems like a problem, actually fits what is happening in knowledge, crossings, interdisciplinaryity, mixed objects. And I will disagree with those who think they're closed cognitive systems or closed skills, locked up and irrevocable, uncontrolled cognitive figures and entities, which should never be evolved. There's not that today. Knowledge is multipurpose, multifocal. There is a democracy of knowledge, there is a great democracy of knowledge. Transactions. There are sources of cognitive knowledge that you can access, and above all, there are aspects that so far have not been legitimized, such as, for example, Minister, research imagination, intuition, elements that create a completely different substrate so that the thinker, the researcher, the student, can move forward. These are some of the thoughts which Mr Delis' interesting suggestion gives me, but also other rapporteurs and colleagues who have been put forward. The President is a tough negotiator over time. I'll conform. This experiment is very interesting. The answer is after, it's not right now. Now you're making preconditions. Whether it works is in the hands of universities and local communities. And that bet doesn't answer the lawmaking. Legislation has its economy, it has its organization, it has the target of the legislator, but reality is answered by reality itself. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. Minister, apart from Greece's solids, there is also "literature" Greece. There are the islands, there are the Aegean University, i.e. there are loose ends, which can be dealt with, we can conceive this concept of interconnecting, the concept of tissue, which links cognitive objects and cognitive shells, the cultural shells, the university facilities and above all, to see this new excellent community that is formed. The community of students, intellectuals, who with terrible economic pressure are able to achieve and distinguish themselves and exist and recommend the new unity of our nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, Mr. Sevastaki. We shall proceed with Mr Stylion, Member of the New Democracy. Please, you have seven minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u538	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing another bill on education, education, a bill which has many different provisions and different chapters. I will be placed and insisted on three things in my speech. I shall begin with the first, which is the most controversial, amendment in relation to the recruitment of permanent teachers and assistant teachers, secondly, with the different criteria that you use to make synergies, conversion, mergers, abolitions, absorptions of institutions or otherwise, and thirdly, with regard to the professional rights of graduates of the institutions. Many Members have spoken, and our rapporteur from New Democracy spoke of the amendment you have tabled. Most of us agree that eighteen or twenty thousand teachers each year do not know where they are to be found. They turn around Greece, others from the Peloponnese, Epirus, the Aegean Islands, the Ionian Islands, to achieve what they have chosen, to work as teachers in primary and secondary education. So you are coming today in your own amendment and you are changing the way in which the alternates will be recruited and the way in which permanent teachers will be recruited. Why is this change going on? Because since 2010, we have constantly had ministerial decisions and extensions, in relation to the way in which the substitute teachers would be hired. And it should either be based on the law of the AACC competition or find another way, another solution. Indeed, with a decision of the Council of State, this year was the last years, namely the 2018-2019 school year, which could remain the existing system. So you come and change the way in which the assistant teachers will be recruited. So let's go down. I do not actually go into the criteria, if they should be 5%, but they should be 15%, but they should be 20%, etc. I think that much more methodical, much more serious work should be done and understood as a whole. But, once again, what do we have? We are dealing with the issue of substitutes for contractors. Why am I saying that? Because, Minister, we do not believe that you will make permanent appointments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u539	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u540	I say this for the following reason. Because the Minister, this provision, has been put to the committee by an amendment. It was not passed by the General Accounting Office in order to have a report, whether there are appropriations or whether these appropriations can be committed by the fifteen thousand recruits and according to them, which are said and said by you and by many Members of the majority and four and a half thousand teachers in special education, so a total of nineteen thousand teachers. I say, then, that we do not believe you will be appointed. I ask you to make an explicit responsible statement and tell us: firstly, how many permanent appointments will be made this year in general education and how many appointments will be made for the school year 2019-2020 in special education. We are therefore waiting for the closure of your post to explain to us how many appointments you are going to make, where the appropriations are, if there are appropriations, because we consider that the 15 000 recruitments are given, and we are entering the criteria, but - in my opinion - the 15 000 recruitments are not given for the next three years. And I don't think you're even going to make the five thousand hires this year. This is my placement. I'm waiting for your answer. Let's go below, in relation to the mergers and absorptions of the institutions. Different criteria, different approaches, where appropriate. And I ask why the Western Greece TEI, which is asking to remain autonomous in itself and cannot be upgraded, while the Crete TEI for example, from what has been said during the debate, has been transparent, Minister, and has not been disproved by you, will it have its own way, an autonomous function of its own? Let's go down and see what else is going on. We have a merger, abolition of Central Greece TEI and TEI Thessaly and a merger of others with the Kapodistrian others with the University of Thessaly and others with the Agricultural University. On what criteria was this absorption, the merger? Have institutions been asked if they can support sections that will be very long? I, Minister, have been an instructor at a higher education institution on an island, far away from where he is the center of the university and his administration. So I say to you that the procedural problems you face are too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u541	What's going on at the University of the Aegean? How's he doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u542	The University of Aegean, Minister, you know very well that it is basically on two islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u543	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u544	Therefore, parts of garlic cannot be supported and accomplished by this academicity, which should exist among themselves. And they cannot be supported, Mr Minister, and for another reason, and I would point it out to you. Because I have a very high reservation if there is money and credit in order to run this whole project. So when the academic community says "I take it" it does not say that "I have money". He will come to the Ministry the next day and he will say "give me the money" and we will now have a dialogue with the Ministry to say "I don't have the money". I understand why that's none of your business. Because another government will then come, another Prime Minister will come to deal with this issue, so the problem of how to find the money for all these institutions is another one. I have said so to the committee, and I say this again today, because there has been a lot of discussion. Do we want our universities to accomplish their purpose? Do we want modern-day curriculum projects that meet the needs of science, research and the labour market, which give our children a professional perspective? So you had to draw up courses and courses, which were directed towards them, and not to have ideas, which we do not know how they will work in the framework of a Brainstorming, because that is where the children of the poor Greek will go. You know very well that the children of weaker financial families will go to study in regional institutions and regional departments. The children of the wealthy families, Minister, can and can be properly supported by their families to achieve a good university in the centre, but they also have the opportunity to choose the way abroad or any other institution. Finally, Minister, there is a huge gap in all this reform: the professional rights of the old graduates, the old graduates of the TEIs and the graduates of the departments from 2013 to 2019. I told you. They're tens of thousands of graduates who don't know the degree they get who they're responding to and where they can use it. For all these reasons, we are voting against this bill in principle, because for us education is a matter of priority and it is too high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u545	Thank you, too. We shall proceed with the next speaker, the New Democracy MP, Mr Andriano.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u546	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u547	Wait a minute, Mr. Adriane. Minister, you do not have to answer each Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u548	Look. I'll tell you. Because it's called and Mr. Andriane can say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u549	It's okay. You'll answer later, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u550	No, I'll tell you why. You have said so many Members and it is one thing that may not have been understood. Look. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. The appropriations for the four and a half thousand appointments have therefore been entered in the 2019 budget. Yes or no? The answer is 'yes', we voted on it a little while ago, we know it. So it's four and a half thousand for the special treatment. Ten and a half thousand left. They will be five thousand two hundred fifty in 2020 and five thousand two hundred fifty in 2021. What we are going to do is in April we will be proclaiming the positions so that people can be appointed in time for 2020. Once the 2020 budget comes out, it will also have them. So they're registered four and a half thousand. Don't cause problems. And secondly, the University of the Aegean is on six islands and not on two.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u551	Do I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u552	Of course, Mr Adriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u553	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I think it was right to clarify and the MPs, of course, and the Greek people, that in 2019, in fact, it was four and a half thousand in the provision of the special education budget, five and a half thousand in 2020, which is not predictable in the 2010 and 2021 budgets the rest. Understood. Today's sitting, ladies and gentlemen, comes immediately after the vote of confidence and prior to the introduction of the Prespecies Agreement. And I would make no reference either to yesterday's sitting or to the forthcoming introduction of the Presidencies' Agreement here in Parliament, if colleagues just now did not speak with enough arrogance, I can say about yesterday's sitting, but also about the debates. So the new marginal parliamentary majority, created by the method of cholera, ladies and gentlemen, is even more heterosexual and unreserved than the previous one. But the bell is already ringing. The Greeks' strong demand for political change will soon be heard. So we call on the government to consider its responsibilities to the Greek citizens of tomorrow's generation and to appeal to the people's verdict for the Greek people to decide on such serious national issues as the Ambassadors' Agreement. Only with a fresh people's mandate, therefore, are we dealing with the very serious national issues and not with marginalised majority voting by parliamentarians, who have had the exact opposite of them, for which the Greek people have voted against them. In fact, this is a distortion of the wishes of the voters. That is why these serious events are not covered by communication tricks, as Mr debates said, because the most democratic and clearest of all, ladies and gentlemen, on so serious issues are the elections. You have nothing to fear. The Greek people are mature, they can decide. The stake is specific and I think that we trust the Greek people and that you on the left will not agree to that. So we are talking today about a draft law on education, which creates more problems than it is supposed to solve, a draft law which has been drafted, without taking into account the report by the PPP, which many Members have pointed out, without prior evaluation and serious planning, without taking into account the needs of society and the economy, without even taking account of the decisions of the management bodies of the institutions which are affected. In fact, while the Ministry has set up a committee to combine it, its findings are still undisclosed, as is of course the viability study. We are discussing a bill which once again reveals in many respects the curiosity with which it has been drawn up, such as previous bills, which had rules on musical schools, Minister, after protests by students, teachers and parents, for example. It is therefore clear that the provisions of the bill we are discussing do not aim to upgrade higher education. The word "sympathies", which exists in the title of the bill, is simply an euphemism, because through the scaffolding you are trying, without any substantial preparation, the result will be the creation of many and intense problems both at the level of administration and organization and between the educational community. The type only superiorisation with clipboard combinations that do not follow any standard of quality assurance, safeguarding the elementary administrative and economic viability or the effective resolution of the issues, which will arise immediately for teachers and students, does not upgrade universities. Our position is clear and clearly expressed by the President of the New Democracy. The main priorities in education are upgrading, reforming the education technology sector. We need universities of applied technologies with institutional structure, which will allow the real achievement of the educational purpose, universities of applied technologies, which will effectively give graduates a focus on quality and result by recognising and responding to the needs of society and the economy, by applying evaluation at every step, encouraging innovation and alternatives, which they prove to be delivering. Finally, with regard to the amendment on recruitment with the criteria you set out, you also see the intense reactions caused by teachers of general education, special education, sensitive social groups, such as polytexts, third parties, disabled people who feel they are wronged by the predictions you enter. We have tabled, through our rapporteur, a concrete and comprehensive proposal, which we invite you to adopt at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u554	Thank you, too. Mr Georgantas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u555	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, Minister, we must conclude that there is a great deal of ingenuity in relation to the titles of the bills. "Cooperatives", really a very successful term, but from what all colleagues have heard, especially colleagues in Thessaly, who also have a more direct approach to the issue, it has been shown that all these synergies are interpreted by both the Republican authorities and the local self-government authorities and the academic community. I have no knowledge of exactly the parameters that led to you in this decision, but I have the experience and image of what happened in connection with the merger at the International University of Thessaloniki of Central Macedonia TEI, Alexandria TEI and the TEI of Kavala. That is where I had the honour of participating in the so-called consultation - information, which would be done. In fact, there was only one member from the International University, basically to announce to us the merging decision. At Kilkis, there's only one department in the TEI. You understand that academic rules do not allow for the existence and functioning of a single department. There must be relevance to a second section, a school creation, so that there is an academic level upgraded and there must be a complete presence of an educational institution in a city, once we have the luck of having a wonderful building, new, which was in an older NSRF and which has been delayed, but it has been delivered now. You had the luck of visiting it and seeing it. In this wonderful building, with the many spaces, we stayed with only one department. There was a consultation in which I, as a Member of Parliament Kilkis, stayed with questions, which were not answered and I saw that there was simply a decision on the part of this committee, obviously, which was created to end this case as quickly as possible. When this bill comes to Parliament, we will have the opportunity to say more. What I think should be a rule, in general all the draft laws of the Ministry of Education, is that they really need to be pursued in practice and not just as letteres of content, consensus and convergence. No reform in education, no overthrow of previous circumstances and situations can proceed without the consent of all and society, but also of all those who have a particular role in it. I shall refer, Minister, to two provisions which I think are of particular interest. One is about the molecules. They have been heard from many here about the way you manage this particular issue, but I must add my own position. Minister, we are all legislating here, in order for there to be a growth in our country, for there to be good education in our country, for there to be conditions for good work in our country, for the Greeks. But we also need to make sure that the population exists, that there are the Greeks who will enjoy all that we have in our legislation today. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Demographics are a very big issue. I won't make you wiser if I say something about it. That is why our Constitution has special rules and it is the state's duty to take care of very large families, to ensure that they are strengthened so that there is no such demographic problem. I am not one of them - because, of course, it was heard by many here, I think - who say that these candidates should be promoted against others. I believe, however, that their molecules should be strengthened, so that the fulfilment of the obligation arising from the Constitution, and at the same time, we can give some people who cannot support their curriculum with many postgraduate and doctoral degrees, because they have three and four and five children in their home, to find a permanent job. So when a one-year graduate is counted with 20 molecules and each child is counted with three molecules, you understand that even if we don't want it, the ratio of seven children for a postgraduate comes into our minds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u556	But now you're comparing that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u557	No, we don't compare them. But in the modulation you have given, Mr Minister, that comes out of it. Shouldn't there be even one escalation, a reasoned reinforcement of these people? Anyone who devotes this time to the family cannot, as you understand, have the other academic criteria, which you set up and which strengthen the molecule. Should these people, without any populism in any way, not give the hope that the state and state see them? Why, finally, did I tell you that we are legislating, but to see what country we are legislating with, what population? Because we need to see in the next few years. So I think that here you really should see it differently. There should be a reasoned enhancement of this molecule. In closing the matter of the bill, I have to say something about an amendment. It is an amendment that has previously been of concern to us by the Ministry of Health in relation to some extensions of work contracts in the CEDEFOP. All right, now with the derogations of any general and specific provisions. It is enough with the extensions, which have no power in the prefecture, extensions that come with ministerial amendments and do not go through the Scientific Service of the Parliament. Because if they go through Parliament's Scientific Service, they will be cut off or rather there, to say the right expression, the very illegal nature of them. You are giving a third extension to the 'PHILOS' programme. The House cannot legislate in this way. There are specific forecasts of how these contracts should be made, when these programmes end, and in particular when we talk about a programme that will now be financed with EUR 1.1 million from the Greek state budget and not from a grant. I do not think that we are honouring this continuing legislation, by way of derogation from any general and administrative provisions. I think, Minister, that the shocks you had to achieve in this bill did not succeed and, unfortunately, that is not a good omen for education from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u558	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. I have just heard back from the Bureau. At 11: 00, we'll be done. So, everyone you're ahead of, you'll talk by then. Please respect, at least, the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u559	Mr President, could speeches be given five minutes to make it possible for Members to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u560	And five minutes to talk, someone won't talk again. If you agree that the five-minute speeches should be held so that they can speak two or three of my colleagues, I have no objections at all, provided that the five-minute period is respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u561	We agree, Mr President. Mr Pratsol, from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, has the floor for five minutes, as we agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u562	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are debating today, it is actually unfolding, the process of reconstructing our country's higher education is evolving, which began with the establishment of the University of West Attica and continued with the Ionian University and the University of Ioannina. In an international landscape, which is changing rapidly, we must consider the role of the TEIs in Greece now. Since 1970, the higher technical education centres (TEIs) were set up in the post of the Higher School of Submechanical Engineering, which until then operated with graduates, who have played a significant role in the development of the country, with funding, however, the World Bank, to meet the needs of medium-sized managers until now, it has flowed very much water into the yard. In 1977 they were renamed to centres of younger technical vocational education in 1983, became Technological Educational Institutions and in 2001, under the well-known Bologna Treaty, they were upgraded and integrated into higher education institutions. However, the unplanned establishment of sections has led, on the one hand, to the overlapping of cognitive objects and to their geographical dispersion. Thus, many departments of TEIs still do not have professional rights today, which is certainly a deterrent to attracting students. Let us stress here, for some who show a certain interest in TEIs, that their basic departments, engineers, electricians, political engineers TEs operate with professional rights established by royal decrees of 1971. How, then, do you really show your interest in all these graduates from 1970 to today in the New Democracy and PASOK? It is insulting that there are professional rights when they have already been exceeded by life. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to focus, in relation to this legislative intervention, on the changes taking place in higher education in Evia. With the infamous project "ATHENA", as implemented by FEK A134, published on June 5, 2013, the University of Central Greece was abolished. The computer and computer modules with applications in biomedical, on a global original, have remained orphans and eventually joined the University of Thessaly. It was also decided to merge the TEI of Lamia and Chalkida to TEI of Central Greece and many departments were transferred from Psachna to other areas outside Evia. The Kapodistrian University has tabled a documented proposal called "Evrupou's group", which concerns part of the TEI Central Greece, and in particular the former TEI Psachnons. The proposal was consulted at the EKP, was discussed widely with the administration of the Greek TEI of Central Greece, the academic community of the Foundation and presented publicly at the premises of the TEI in Psachna, in the presence of members of the community, students, local and regional authorities. Through a fruitful dialogue and controversy at the outset, the final proposal, as expressed in this bill, and not by a decision at night, as was done with the "Athens" project and without any consultation. Some must remember that well. I would, of course, like to stress one more point. We have heard that this bill does not have the acceptance of society. I would like here to table the minutes of the decision of the City Council of the Municipality of Halkidone, the Municipality of Dirfyon - Messapion, as well as the decision of the KINAL Legal Committee. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios Pratsolis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is the case with the 'Other we say outside' and other things we say in it. In the altar of a party interest and a line, which says that "in what SYRIZA says we have to say no" we are still sacrificing such a matter, which is abstract of a social agreement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because now I have a shorter time, I will say that the specialties created in the fishing grounds are a school and eight departments, which actually upgrade the area. The Foundation's contribution to the development of the region, both economic and cultural, through social osmosis, which will arise, is a given one. The development of research with postgraduate programmes, as well as innovative actions and the linking to the needs of modernization and development of enterprises, through the operation of Europe Technopolis, is also important. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr. President. At the same time, the provision for two-year courses of study of PES graduates provides a substantial professional way out, but also essential in technical education in the country in the form it should have, in accordance with current requirements. It also opens the way for further studies in higher education. All existing structures, as well as all staff, education, administrative, with full rights, will be exploited.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u563	Let us finish, Mr Colleague, so that the other Members can get to grips with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u564	The glamorous and quality of the National Kapodistrian University will be strengthened, with a history of a hundred and eighty years and international discrimination. With the renewal wind that this government has brought to education, the Evrupu complex is part of it. It abandons the decadent past, changes radically and prospects and responds to the challenges of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u565	Thank you, Mr. Pratsol. Mr Ballis, from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u566	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the long time of today's sitting - you see, Saint Antonio, we have entered and of Saint Athanasios, we will be leaving the House - and the great interest of fellow Members in speaking, putting themselves in place, showing - I appreciate - the importance and importance of this bill. And it is true that it has too many important predictions and regulations. Perhaps, at the moment of this bill, the predictions of permanent appointments and recruitment of teachers are very important. The word was vanished from the teachers' daily vocabulary for a decade, I would say that the prospect of their lives has disappeared for a decade. Of course, we also live the paradox of planning fifteen thousand recruitments of permanent teachers with a three-year horizon and no one is happy. But that is another matter. To return, despite the importance of many of the regulations of this bill, I will be allowed to stand out and refer solely to what is included in the University of Thessaly, the new University of Thessaly, as will go further in the future even fresher, even stronger, more integrated after the synergies that arise. I don't honestly do it just because I'm from Volos, because I believe the University of Thessaly, since its establishment, can be a model for how to organise and develop higher education in our country. But to get to know it, we need to see his yesterday and today. Because, knowing the Foundation's yesterday and today, we can understand its brilliant tomorrow. As the most innovative university in Greece, our rapporteur, Sia Anagnostopoulou, described it as the most innovative in her speech at the meeting of the Committee of the Parliament. It was innovative in the way it was created and disseminated to the local urban and social fabric. With a different logic from the usual university campus, it spread throughout the city, rescued and displayed historical buildings, tied to local history, politics, social, industrial history of the city, housing schools and departments. Using innovative university knowledge, he opened up to new areas, enriched in his own way the science and directions of spatial planning, engineering networks, intelligent systems, innovation, the environment and medicine, agriculture and humanitarian studies. Today, mature now, it is ready to return a page, after thirty-four years, to go to his next time, to grow, to benefit from his experience and his own, but also from TEI, to open up to new fields, to face the challenges of the future, to prepare the University of Thessaly - more than any other university in the country, I believe - the young people, his new students for the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution, with the establishment of new departments, i.e. new scientific areas, with synergies, attracting new research bodies, to become the university of the region, which will compete with universities in the centre and in prestige and in the contents of studies, to be more linked to the local society. Speaking of the synergies of the University of Thessaly and its great connection to the local society, with my city, Volos and its developmental intervention, let me mention just two examples and I will stay only in the recent activities of the University of Thessaly. So our university, in cooperation with Volos port, is preparing a study, not only to make the most of the port area, but also to connect it to a combined transport system. Even a few weeks ago, the university signed a programme contract with the Ministry of Labour. In the very near future, I dare say in the very near future, we will present a comprehensive study on the development of a large abandoned land in the heart of Nea Ionia at Volos, where the cotton factory was in the past, a study of urbanization, with the development of uses for education, for recreation, for culture. A desert so far is transformed with the help of the university into a development resource for the refugee town of New Ionia. Let us keep this great picture of this new university. Let us not arouse the position that this innovative university deserves in the country's new university charter by proposing the demands for the spatial and only distribution of schools and departments. In recent times I have seen many local players begging about which schools and what parts of the city they will be setting up. That's not what's important. I say, let's give the university time to show what it can do. Let us, after all, trust the judgement of the senatorial and oriental authorities on how this new architecture of the university should be. It can't be, these people more will know about architecture, how it's organized, how it's structured and how a new university works. Local pressures are still understandable, but I repeat, let us give the necessary time. Is this architecture infallible? Probably not. We may see that there are some omissions. But we will have time to make improvements. To conclude, Mr President, I say that the value of the university, each university for the city that is hosting it, is not in temporary consumption, but in goodwill, which creates for the city, on the university's footprint in culture, knowledge, extroversion, international recognition acquired by the city that is hosting it, through the work of the university. And the University of Thessaly rightly claims - and I think it is now taking a dynamic place in the country's new university map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u567	Thank you, Mr. Ballis. Mr Balommenakis of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u568	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have shaped our reasons all in seven minutes. We'll have to cut off. I'll be right in. The draft law, which we are debating today, without saying that it solves all the problems, and even, unlike old legislation in the field of education, mammoth legislation or too ambitious legislation, which they have chartered, has a practical dimension. It endeavours, with caution and prior consultation with stakeholders, to create better and more modern conditions in specific institutions. It is based on the strategy of the single area of higher education and research, which has already taken the first steps and is now expanding geographically. It is not a design that is being made to be imposed from above, but it is the result of an expression of interest and initiatives, as well as of taking responsibility for implementation from below. Many of the invertebrate and delay samples marked should also be attributed to fragmentation. This draft law is of a visionary nature, regardless of whether it regulates practical issues of synergy. They are matters grounded in reality, in coordination with the perspective of the University of the first century, which should combine science and research. It is a horizontal network of communication and synergy among higher education institutions that can be of many use, shatters the locality and perception of my own space, which is often the same or similar to someone else and offers many benefits. I would like to make a small reference here and say that from the criticisms of the Vice-Presidents, which were in many parts, with one exception only, Mrs Kerameo - I may not agree with her, but was a general character - the overall criticism of this aim is missing, namely, for synergies as a visionary element. I note that as a weakness of the discourse of the opposition. Above all, I would like to focus on the following: As Mr Fotakis announced a moment ago, it is founded in Chania, in the field of the Polytechnic University of Crete, which is based there, the Institute for Oil Research, which aims to exploit knowledge, experience and infrastructures in the science of oil that has developed especially in Chania and, more specifically, in the field of the facilities of the Polytechnic of Crete. The use will be made in the environment of HETH, the Foundation for Technology and Research, which is one of the best international institutions in the area. This should be assessed from the outset as a positive qualification for the new institute. At the Institute of Technology and Research there is accumulated knowledge, as we have been informed long ago, it has developed cooperation with the Institute of Chemical Engineering of the University of Patras and other institutes, such as applied mathematics, computers and others. It is a fact that, with the establishment of the Petroleum Institute, decisive impetus will be given to strengthening oil research in our country at a time when the exploration process begins. As far as we are concerned, yes, research and production issues have been dealt with in many cases with the technological infrastructure and the experience of contractors, but in always close cooperation with research centres. This rule our country is following him for the first time. An important piece of information, which I am able to contribute, is that it is a firm intention for the University of Crete to receive a special research focus from the beginning on the development of good practices in the field of predicting and dealing with the impact of the oil industry on the environment. This is a field of high-demand scientific research. Indeed, this sector is a challenge to our country's scientific potential. I still have to underline the positive precedent. Today, at the University of Crete, there is already an English-speaking postgraduate program, "Oil Mechanics", positively evaluated in the global classification of the industry, which has developed in collaboration with several foreign universities and oil companies worldwide. I would like to make a little mention of the implementation time, and I'm done. It is indeed commendable that, between the time the proposal was submitted, as we say, there were very few months of acceptance. The praise really belongs to the Minister, Mr Fotakis, who was directly embraced and promptly promoted the idea, the Ministry of Energy, the Minister of State, Mr Stathakis, and especially to all those who acted with unusual - let me - speed for the Greek State, for the coordination and implementation of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u569	Thank you to Mr Balomenakis and, in particular, to the consistency of time. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u570	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has not been until twenty-four hours since the vote of confidence, taken by the government and the first bill to vote symbolically, at least, gives the mark of governance for the next period, which includes two very important issues of the government agenda, education and work. Until first, the unscheduled establishment of departments in universities and TEI has resulted in the overlapping of cognitive objects and the creation of confusion to a number of graduates in relation to professional rights. In these contexts, most of the sections at the TEIs of Thessaly and Central Greece are being moved, parts with bases below 10, with low student participation, large leakage rates and, of course, high unemployment rates. So in the face of this ugly academic situation, for Central Greece at least I can best know, the answer of the Ministry and of the academic community is the partnership of universities with TEI. This strategy cannot, of course, ignore the existing situation, infrastructure and structures that were made with the Greek people's money. It would be a mistake not to exploit exceptional structures, unfortunately scattered throughout the country. In any case, this strategy must be bold and innovative. In particular, I will talk about Boeotia and the existing Department of Supply Chain at TEI of Thebes, which is part of the Agricultural University of Athens. A historical university of high quality studies and extroverted academic perception integrates this section into its potential and a Department of Agricultural Enterprises and Supply Systems is established, which is part of the School of Applied Economics and Social Sciences of the General University of Athens. This section is based in Thebes and is five-year-olds. On the occasion of the consultation of several months for this bill, a dialogue with the Republican authorities of the Agricultural University has been opened to further use of public land and real estate of the former Kopaidas Organization. The scientific and academic adequacy of the Agricultural University gives us the right as Voiotias Prefecture to plan together the academic development of the Law in Aliartos and Livadia. The productive reconstruction of Kopaidas, as well as of Boeotia, must have the Agricultural University a natural ally and a scientific partner. In all the debate that is taking place today, in particular for the Central TEI, there have been quite a lot of strange hearings. We have heard from Mr Stavoura and Mrs Kerameo, without a trace of self-criticism and with abundant political courage - I would say - that we are abolishing the Central TEI. Who's saying that? The ones who, in one night, in 2013, cursed the University of Central Greece? Yes, ladies and gentlemen. There was since 2005 a University of Central Greece and within an eight-year period they closed it. These are the sustainability studies for which Mrs Kerameos has previously invoked us. These are New Democracy's famous sustainability studies on educational institutions. The synergies that are taking place today in the former departments of Central Greece TEI with the EKP, the Agricultural University of Athens and the University of Thessaly strengthen the existing departments and create new upgraded departments. I do not hide you, ladies and gentlemen, that today I feel very happy and proud that as a trainer I will vote for the permanent appointment of fifteen thousand teachers, after ten years of appointment. It is easy to understand how difficult the project was. But I think that a fair solution is given. Pre-service is the first and dominant molecules criterion. The first degree is reinforced. All academic titles are modulated and a balanced modulation is given to the HEIs or their direct family environment. The Minister called for proposals on how to appoint permanent teachers. We didn't get an answer from almost anyone. The New Democracy has proposed a mixed system with 30% of the written tender. I do not know if the New Democracy really believes so, not only that the written competitions of the AACC failed to upgrade the nominated teacher, but also because - it is important - Mr Mitsotakis does not believe, he does not even know if these appointments are needed. The new Republic proposes 1 to 5, i.e. no appointment. A lot of people doubt it if it's gonna happen. We heard that before. Cassandras will be denied, not only because this government believes in mass appointings in public schools, but also because a new progressive government majority will also force them for the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u571	Thank you, Mr. Thebeau. Mr. Gregoraco, Mr. Ahmet is not here. I'll have Mr. Zabeck come to his place to speak. And if he can come back later, so he won't be erased, He's not coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u572	Mr. Constantopoulos will speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u573	Mr. Constantopoulos? Why haven't you let us know? No one has informed us. Wait a minute - Mr Zabeck will be here - to reach out to the parliamentary group at least. Nothing's come to us. Be patient, Mr. Constantopoulos, you will speak. We will reach agreement and there will be no problem. Mr. Zabeck has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u574	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate comes after a strong process of confirming Parliament's confidence in the government. Before that, the removal of our country from the memoranda and the possibility of formulating our own policy has taken place. But also throughout our country's financial com mittee, it is worth remembering that the government, even when it brought difficult bills - which were imposed by the institutions - was fighting and fighting for compensation or in order to achieve the best possible. Afterwards, then, the appointments of the dismissals of school guards, cleaners, municipal policemen, after recruitment to health, came the long time for education, while the disciples were reduced by twenty - five to twenty - two students. And I say that this is a great moment, because education along with health is the sectors that have been hardest hit. They were affected not only in matters of staffing but also in the quality of education, as in economic extinction education - the most important good offered by the state to the citizens - was downgraded and reduced by cutting down, merging departments and schools, lack of school manuals, and even redundancies in the field of tertiary. I would therefore prefer not to refer to the whole bill, with which I agree and believe that it is moving in the right direction. I should like to mention, in particular, the amendment by the Ministry of Education, which deals with the establishment of a new system of appointments and recruitment of teachers from primary and secondary schools. The proposed system provides for the procedure for the classification of candidates in rating tables rather than by means of a written procedure via ASP, as last time in 2008. Between 2008 and today, ten and more years have elapsed. It is ten years of aptitude, where the deputy teachers almost entirely sent public schools to every corner of the country. The deputy teachers are the missing heroes who turn the whole country to learn letters to our children, leaving their family and life behind. They are the teachers, who are again unemployed every June and are the official workers of the state precariously. To these teachers, who have been doing their job for so many years, we owe a great deal of thanks and a huge apologies, which, in particular, the working conditions and the status of alternates have become normal. For this reason alone, we should not ignore the fact that, after ten years, there are no appointments of teachers. If they don't now, they'll never be. Because if today's opposition is ever made government - which I do not think is possible - we should know that appointments are not part of their policy. No one should be deceived. Only redundancies know how to reduce public education and strengthen private life. On the contrary, today we are very pleased to meet a consistent request from teachers, with a view to upgrading the educational process and introducing young teachers with appetite and qualifications in the educational system. This amendment has received great criticism. We should, however, remember that by 2008 the appointments of teachers were made through a written SAP competition. The change in this process is of great importance, both symbolic to the Left and to the practice of teachers. The left and the majority of the educational community have always considered that such a process of short duration and with questions of multiple choice cannot judge the adequacy of teachers. The political choice of appointments based on the objective criteria of past service and academic qualifications is therefore a great victory for the educational movement. We are therefore talking about fifteen thousand appointments at three-year depths, at all levels and specialties in education, beginning with special treatment, where no permanent recruitment has ever been made. But also to show the particular importance of special education for us - with a limit of 20 molecules - with priority being given to the service of assistant teachers, because we believe that their experience of our educational system is needed. I therefore welcome the Ministry of Education's initiative by requesting recruitment to include a number of teachers in the minority programme. Besides, the Deputy Teachers are only about fifty, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a minute. And I ask for this because we cannot deny the right of those teachers of minority education to work in decent conditions, nor to openly violate the right of minority to better minority education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u575	Thank you, Mr. Zabeck. Mr Constantopoulos has the floor for five minutes, and immediately thereafter she is Mrs Triantafyllou. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u576	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this bill follows on from a policy pursued by the current government on all levels of education, a policy of a fast track aimed only at figures. We see a numerical reduction in university institutions with micropolitical and syndicial logic. Promote, ladies and gentlemen, a radical restructuring which is not part of the overall medium-term educational and development planning, while at the same time there is no need for the necessary feasibility studies for the sustainability of schools and departments. A common finding is the bypass of the institutions, which the government itself has adopted. And today it is downgrading them, such as the PPP, the ELIDEC, and today it is downgrading them. A joint finding is that there is no need to apply academic criteria for the functions of the departments. There is no effective connection to the needs of productive reconstruction in the country. The first conclusion, therefore, is that there is no cost, no cost, but no compelling opinion of the Committee of Experts on Education's finances. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, reminds me of the "ATHENA" project, which, in its vote, brought enormous problems to the HEIs and TEIs. The only thing that succeeded in the then project "ATHENA" was the abolition of the University of Western Greece, based in Agrini and the degradation of the TEI Mesology, a TEI building - I would say - with modern logistics and building facilities, which could accommodate twice as many parts. And instead, the "ATHENA" project resulted in the transfer of the sections of the TEI Mesologi to leaps in Achaia and Elias. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it needs self-criticism. I would point out these, Mr Ministers, because at the time I had submitted my concerns, which were then verified by the Senate of the University of Patras for the transfer of the departments of Agrinio to Patras, which was then avoided by our questions and interventions in the House in 2015. Today, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, it is necessary and imperative that the establishment of a University School of Agrinio and the integration into it of these departments, Mr Minister, for its proper operation, as well as the creation of a Messologist School, where the departments with attractive objects of operation will be integrated into its fine facilities. Minister, we are discussing a bill of hand. It creates uncertainty for students and graduates and endangers their professional rights. For example, in the case of Amphissa, where the Department of Agricultural Tourism, which was to be set up on the basis of consultation, is ultimately not included in the draft law. At the same time, abolish the Department of Administration, Economy and Communication of Cultural and Tourism Units, without, of course, guaranteeing the smoothness and integration of students' studies and the strength of their degree. Ladies and gentlemen, we support - and it is our permanent position - the reduction in the number of pupils per school. We are all aware that registrations per year are steadily decreasing due to infertility. The demographic problem, ladies and gentlemen, in our country is enormous. Therefore, the reduction of schooling capacity is inevitable, and it hits us the alarm for the population of the country, who is ageing. It is therefore necessary to support the family, support the multitude family, support the third family, not tomorrow, but today. The reduction in the number of pupils per department should be combined, Mr Minister, and with the care of a school house. You spoke of fifteen thousand assignments. No one says 'no'. The operational needs of all schools are, however, several more. In fact, if this is linked to the stay in the service of teachers up to sixty - seven years or forty years of service, one can see the functional gaps that will increase each year. Minister, is it time we talked in this hall about teachers' pensions? Should we renew our educational staff with an output incentive, such as the thirty-five full years of service in education? Should the transfer process be reassessed, allowing teachers, if they wish, to be transferred? They are questions that need an answer. I come to the amendment on nutritional education at the full-day school. I welcome her and see her positively. I agree with the colleagues who have tabled it. After all, this amendment will help to combat obesity in children. Ladies and gentlemen, the recruitment amendment raises issues and does not provide solutions. To condemn, of course, the violent way in which demonstrators have been treated. It is not appropriate for their work, for their contribution to our children and their struggles for democracy in our country. We say 'yes' to recruitment, but it is unfair to the system that you propose. For us there is, my dear Minister, an unnegotiable principle: The counting of all the assistants' pre-services and success in the ASEP competition. The state cannot retrospectively blame teachers who have suffered the consequences of the anointing, who have been in the carpets of our country to collect molecules and pre-services, teachers who do not have the financial capacity for postgraduate studies, teachers, who are now fifty years old and who work throughout Greece as substitutes for fifteen years, and today we condemn them to unspecified because of the wall we put into pre-service and the lack of postgraduate and doctorals. That is why, Minister, you must see it as a transitional stage. We have all agreed in committee on the need to increase the moleculosis of the basic degree. Minister, with the arrangements you bring, there is no real care for the sensitive social groups,...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u577	Mr. Constantopoulos, please, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u578	...for tents and tritecnes, and at the same time, the increased moleculosis in the difficult-accessed schools is abolished, which was given to Minister Andreas Loverdos and ensures the operation of schools in the small islands and in the remote villages.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u579	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u580	I'm hanging up. In addition, I mention the violation of Law 4440/2016 as regards mobilisation of educational ammunition and the unification of the pre-service of general and special treatment. In conclusion, I would like to make a reference to the two-year ESDP training programmes at the EITs so that they can obtain professional rights. We voted for it in the summer of 2018 and we agree. It is time, however, to see the professional rights of the graduates of the TEI, who are hostage. Mr President, because of the curiosity, the incomplete dialogue and the minimum consultation, we are voting against this draft law in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u581	Mrs. Triantafyl has the floor for five minutes. To conclude in the next fifteen or twenty minutes, Mrs Triantafyllos will be speaking by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Karras from the Democratic Independence Group, Mr Baxvanakis from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and Mr Kegeroglu from the Democratic Independence Group and we are closing for tonight. You'll have five minutes strictly, please, all of you. Mrs Triantafel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u582	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is therefore of great interest to this House, ladies and gentlemen. My dear colleague, Mr Constantopoulos, said arguments against the "ATHENA" project. It is voting against our own bill today, but it has certainly listed a number of arguments against the ATHENA project. In fact, it specialised for our region, for the schools in Mesolonghi and Agrini, because we are, of course, aware that so many years ago, we have been mainly in the 20 years since 1990, for many years until 2000, there has been a spatial dispersion of schools, without academic criteria, with deficits and ambiguities in the establishment of their scientific object, with undersubsistence, with poor student care, with poor property infrastructure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u583	I'm sorry, Mrs. Triantafel. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Please respect your colleague in Stepma. Continue, Mrs. Triantafel.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u584	This spatial dispersion was then consecrated by the rhetoric of regional development. All I am saying is that the previous speaker has said so in a way, although it does not belong to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and, I say again, specialises in these weaknesses and the problems that the ATHENA project has brought. Let us say that in the 'Athena' project - and not just the example of Aetolokarnania, Agrinio and Messology - schools were rescued. Have school rescued who? Those who had "bambas in Koroni" or rather in Elias, in the case of Messology. But we'll talk about this, because I think we have the joy, right after the University of Thessaly, Minister, to come the University of Western Greece, so then we'll all have the opportunity to talk about it very thoroughly. Today, basically, I am taking the floor to speak a little about the amendment on the appointment of teachers, which is really important. There have been many problems that have been accumulated for years. They are accumulated problems of ten years of adoration, which sit on each other. After ten years, then, for the first time there are permanent appointments and everyone has said so. I would say that the issue of the budget has also been clarified. The Minister said so a moment ago. It is one of the terrible arguments of the New Democracy, which appointments seem to be. In each year they appear in the budget of this year and here in this year, 2019, we are talking for the first time about permanent appointments to special education. I think it's important. Watch out now, we're not celebrating these assignments. It's the beginning, but we don't celebrate, because it's too far from needs. But it suggests intentions, shows strategies, shows the government's stigma in the first memorial bills. In three years' depth, therefore, there will be fifteen thousand teachers in general education and special education. Here too, the institutions are'starting' in relation to the arguments. There are arguments based on one reality - I will mention them later - and there are arguments from the New Democracy, which are 'extremely devastated'. As is, let's say, the precedent I told you about the budget and whether the funds for appointments are entered, or like what we heard a number of speakers ago, the demographic problem, the multitude, academic criteria, etc. Look, there are substitutes with less or more pre-service, there are teachers who have really run across Greece, in fact supporting public education in very difficult circumstances, there are teachers with postgraduate degrees, there are LEIs and many other categories. I think that this amendment is a transitional stage, it is a start and it is an attempt to balance. It is an attempt to represent everyone in the opportunity, to represent everyone in hope, and it is a serious effort, in my view.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u585	Ladies and gentlemen, you have suddenly entered the Chamber and are making an incredible fuss and you are not respecting my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u586	So let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u587	Come on, Mr. Yakumato, please too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u588	To finish it, as Mr Giakoumatos says and not to tire it up, I think it is necessary to build and build it, because it is the government's strategic choice to strengthen public education in practice. I have to say this, I think it was heard by Nikos Friend, and I'll agree, and I'll say it here. It is also necessary to establish and support continuing training, but take care not of itself as a technician.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u589	And finish this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u590	I can take this further and say about qualifications, the script, which is expensive and several things have been heard. I don't have the time. Not, of course, as a technicality, but inextricably linked to the scientific knowledge of each other, in an effort to broaden the educational structure, to enrich the integrity of a student teacher. Teachers have a very difficult task: to make children think. That's what we all have to build.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u591	Thank you. Mr. Karras has the floor for five minutes, please, so we can slowly finish. The Minister will, of course, be closed with a few minutes' placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u592	Mr President, many times I have been given the Chamber the opportunity to comment and draw up ministerial amendments that are flooding bills from different and irrelevant ministries. However, today I have to comment and confuse another category of amendments. I am speaking of the Members' amendments which seem to have been accepted, but they have been made with a discreet attitude from the Ministry of Education. At noon the Minister's hearing and following the list of rejection of the amendments, I found that only the Governments were accepted, and on the contrary they were not accepted. That's the Minister's prerogative. I'm not going to say it's illegal, but I'm going to say something. We had a requirement to hear the reasoning without explanation. We had a demand to hear why they were not accepted, not a monolithic answer that 'They are not accepted'. I do not think it is a parliamentary custom, a parliamentary method to be rejected. They have a demand for the Members to listen to the answer of the 'no' reasoned and not in the form of glorious refusal. That is why I am also obliged to repeat this today and say this: I am not currently making a substantial assessment between the government and the non-governmental amendments, because it is not foreseeable - not to be concealed - that when the ministers, the ministers concerned - I am referring only to the ministers of this government - they want to regulate certain things, but that the normal legislative procedure should not be followed, there is always a colleague, who will table the proposed amendment in order to be accepted. And why today am I perhaps more than usual intense? I have to explain. We had tabled an amendment, which concerned the minimum. What was the minimum? We asked for an exceptional transfer of children who had been introduced into higher schools, but had been raised and trained in institutions, i.e. children of deprivation, children of their own race at school, had succeeded in achieving a higher school and had been introduced into a school outside the institution where they had been trained. What were these kids asking for? They were asking to be able to continue living within the institutions where they had grown up - reversible and not to be burdened by institutions with extra costs. Of course, I am waiting for the answer: 'You know, the state gives a food allowance, a housing allowance for these students'. But is that enough? The disfellowshipping from an environment that has grown up, does it lead to dangers? In addition, only the housing, a small allowance granted by the Ministry and a small feeding allowance, or the feeding done within the school canteens and restaurants is sufficient to develop these children? I therefore expected to hear the reason for rejecting our amendment, which was socially and humanitarianly content. I do not want to use another word, but I was just waiting for the state to reward these children, to give them the opportunity to go to the place where they lived in the foundations and were reared and not to leave, where they could still be the object of bad advice and not be able to continue their lives and be trained normally. So we asked for the reward. Unfortunately, it was not accepted. I do not want to go on and talk about something heavier. I mean it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u593	Thank you, Mr. Carras, actually. I have already announced the speakers. It's then Mr. Kegeroglu and we're done with the Minister. Mr. Bexvanakis, you have the floor for five minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u594	Ladies and gentlemen, we have the great honour today, we in this Chamber have to legislate on the nomination system of fifteen thousand permanent teachers in public education, after ten years of complete setback, drought and appointment in public education. Already four and a half thousand credits for the first assignments to special education have been entered in this year's budget and those who are ironic about the possibility of permanent appointments being made by our Government have remained with the frozen smile of irony on their faces. We therefore legislate on the appointing system. I am not going to go into detail on the criteria that are being quantified, and I think that none of us should do that, that is to say, not throw oil into the fire of a peculiar confrontation between young scientists. It is inevitable that when we expect about a hundred and fifty thousand applications from graduates for appointment and the posts are fifteen thousand, even twenty-five thousand to be, the number of people not to be appointed will still be very large. So let us not strengthen social automation and let us stick to it, that fifteen thousand permanent teachers will be assigned to the public school. What are the main features of the system? First and foremost, the huge recognition of the offer of the thousands of alternates, who have been supporting the public school for many years. And if we want to be honest - and my fellow deputies understand that - a hundred and twenty months' pre-service is not recognized anywhere else, in any other sector in the public sector. It is the pragmatic recognition of past service by action rather than by words. The second criterion is that no one is prepared. They therefore stop the distortions of the past, where various categories of graduates were assigned to the relevant tables. No one is ahead of us and everyone is devastated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u595	Ladies and gentlemen, a little quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u596	Thirdly, there is an absolute balance between pre-service and academic criteria, so that they have hopes, that many thousands, over 100 000 graduates, who have no pre-service. For the many thousands of graduates, not all of us can pretend to be indifferent. The fourth feature of the system is that it exhausts its social sensitivity, by mobilising the family, not as it has been until now only by mobilising families who have three or more children, who are also supported and strengthened normally, but by mobilising these families with one or two children, who have so far been no one looking at them. In addition, in a fair way, disabled people are being mobilised, as their capacity is mobilised according to the degree of disability. Finally, the main prerogative of this system is that the shameful L.3848, the famous Diamantopoulou Act. Take this into account by those who request the withdrawal of today's bill. Because they mean that the Diamantopoulou Act will come into force, which mobilises the pre-service with less than 20%. Let this be taken into account by the substitutes who are complaining about the present system. And finally, the government is enacting with full respect in the Constitution of the country and in the decisions of the Council of State and the Government must respect these decisions, because we want appointments to be made and the only way to make appointments is for the table to be drawn up by any appeals, which is certain to be made in many respects. The government, therefore, ensures the legality, constitutionality of the way of appointment, legalises the validity of the table to be drawn up and ensures, against the backdrop of many, that these appointments are made. And finally, with regard to this system, we have the views of Mitsotakis. The day before yesterday, Mr. Mitsotakis was very clear. It does not commit that permanent appointments will be made. What clearer than that? Can people, can substitute teachers, can all the educational community make its crises. On the one hand, fifteen thousand appointments, on the other, redundancies and available resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u597	Thank you, Mr. Baxvanakis. I would like to inform the House that many colleagues, who do not have the card with them, have come. Those who do not have the card with you come to the services to give your name, the intention to vote, to count to the end of the general vote. Mr Kegeroglu from the Democratic Partnership has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u598	Thank you, Mr President. For the Change Movement, but also for all of us education, education system, schools, universities, research and research centres should have the compass for the future. Only in this way will Greece redirect to orbit progress. Only then will the new generation be able to take the lead in the new era of the fourth industrial revolution. The important work that has been done in education, infrastructure, educational potential, technology equipment is simply the basis for starting. All of this will have to be seen through a vision for tomorrow, so that we can really get away from the epic conveniences of the present and the various governmental purposes. We must open the way to the future. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government, as it has done on all issues, has moved in the field of education through regularizations and purposes, without national planning and social dialogue. It called the "procedure from the bottom-up" the agreements between the ombudsmen and the intermediaries and the "free expression of will" of the opinions financed. The process of mergers, mergers, renames, without plan and vision for the future, cannot open the way we need. There may be positive elements, and these concern synergies, but the government, after the first pilot mergers, should end up in the national strategy, define the national framework, determine what is technical education, and if the country needs it, set important parameters so that there is a national line. Now what happened? Specific agreements - in the neighbourhood, I would say - which in some cases lead to good results and in many cases to abortions. The abortion, for example, of the merger of the International University of Thessaloniki with a hundred and two hundred kilometres away, can be nothing but teratogenicity, as well as what went to Crete: The Crete TEI, one of the most important technological educational institutions, not only at national level, but also at European level, become part of Lesvos. This crime was rescued by the creation of another university in Crete. Why? Because, he says, the university and the polytechnic do not sit in dialogue. Why? Is it up to them? Either there is national policy and we have to see in uniform rules how we adapt all of what we want as a country or whether every dean and every ombudsman is in charge, then, if you'll excuse me, there is no national policy on education, but there are teams at every place. It's not that kind of thing, it's not excuses. So I think that, even now, we should put in a line, identify the national framework and then move on to the overall development of national policy and the implementation of the upgrade of technological education with the rest of the TEs, with the departments that have already joined the universities. Let's see the main issue with the oldest graduates and see their professional rights. However, technological education cannot return to the Junta CEECs, the two-year term of office within the universities. Two years of training now in technology. Since four years old. It's a feat, and that's progress, he says! So let's see with a different eye what we have to do. I want to say two words about the nomination system. They should not be levelled fairly or unfairly different categories of teachers. Both scientific criteria and public work and work in the private sector and social criteria, all have to be found. Clear the percentages separately for each category so that we can really not have a levelling in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u599	Mr. Kegeroglu, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u600	I conclude by saying that we, as we are in favour of national consensus on national issues, are also in favour of education. Unfortunately, however, the government is not aware of this and is not responding to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u601	Finish, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u602	Mr Karras referred to an amendment that is characteristic. It has not even been examined, and so far it has not been answered. We expect at least the Minister's last position to have the answers to these amendments on the issue of children who through their struggle are able to enter a higher school, and there really needs to be an exceptional process of their transfer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u603	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Gabroglou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u604	We have reached the end of a difficult debate of an extremely important bill, not only because it defines a new architecture of a set of our Higher Education Institutions, but because it abolishes an extremely problematic recruitment law, which is nr.3848/2010 and establishes a balanced system. What I would like to talk about very soon is this continuing characterisation of the Opposition and, in particular, of the New Democracy, that we are doing all this for reasons of customers, for election reasons and party reasons. I will reply to you what we should do if we wanted to do it for customer reasons, because we have a very good example. It's what you guys did. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, I can't concentrate if you're talking. Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u605	Ladies and gentlemen, I have already made three comments. Please, please, we're done with the Minister. Three more minutes of patience, to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u606	So listen. The simplest, it would be, the TEIs to do them universities of applied science. No noise, everyone inside would be, what you're saying. Just what you did, the CEE TEIs, the three-year TEIs, then higher education institutions and then all stayed in their fate. We have chosen another route, the path of academic criteria and not the path of customers. That's what's bothering you. So we chose the hard way. We chose the path of academic institutions. That's never happened before. You know, you need to read more carefully about what is written, because the TEI Thessaly is in favour of the project with 15 to 8, the Central Greek TEI unanimously, the University of Thessaly with 25 to 6, the EKT almost unanimously, the Geogonikos almost unanimously and of course with observations. Alas, if there were no comments, but there is no rejection from any academic institute. The same was, of course, seen in the press release that came out after a long-term meeting of all the mayors, all the republics and all the regional authorities, which said that we unanimously agreed on this project, dated 17 October. Another thing that stays behind us is the role of local government. So far local players have decided on the future of higher education. It cannot be in a democratic country that everyone does not have their own complementary role. There were mayors, many times church actors, who because of their contacts with the Ministry, proceeded to the creation of departments that were left without any teaching staff. Today, the role of local government, after very difficult consultation, has become an essential role. Despite our contradictions with various mayors, at the end the mayors were forced - I say in the good sense of the term - to mention their own needs, to see how they can be integrated into our own prospects and new architecture. The University of Thessaly makes a radical enlargement. It is a highly dynamic institution. The University of Athens takes a pioneering initiative. The Agricultural University becomes our largest agricultural establishment in Greece. We welcome these new compositions and for these compositions we know that we have many difficulties ahead of us, because these are unprecedented, these are very positive things and we are able to deal with these difficulties again through discussions. You should know that all this is based on academia, and that's exactly what's bothering you. Today we are committed and again committed to giving sixty-five new posts at the University of Thessaly, fifty-two at the University of Athens, twenty-five at the Geoponikos and all of 600,000 euros for the project itself. Of course, we won't stop here. The International University is coming, the compositions that will be made in western Greece, Crete, western Macedonia and elsewhere will come. Today, as many other Members have said, we have the great joy of being able to commit ourselves for the first time after ten years to permanent appointments - no one dares to question this - with a system that is extremely balanced. We call on the federations of teachers to discuss with them the major problems of education, the question of teacher training, the issues of teaching competence, the issues of curricula. Unfortunately, so far the federations have not given us any indication of the system they prefer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u607	Minister, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u608	I left for the end a communication on everyone and everyone. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Insert the page. 598a]] [[Enter page 599a]] We have succeeded in shaping something important with the Ministry of Administrative Reform, with the Minister and with a lot of help from the Citizens' Counselor. We are tabling an amendment this week, which will be voted on by the Minister's bill, with which all the deputys will take three and a half months of maternity leave, just as is done with the permanent teachers immediately after the precinct. It was a weakness of us, it was a very difficult thing. It was fair, and it was done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u609	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u610	Mr President, I accept the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u611	The Minister accepts the amendment by a general number of 1925 and a specialist of 222 of the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Papanatziou. Mr Minister, the amendment has been shared. For a few seconds, develop what is concerned, so that the House can be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u612	It's Mrs. Papanatsiou, who came and developed her here. If I remember correctly, it's for the people in Matty who don't have to pay anything they were paying up to a date. The time limit shall be extended.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u613	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u614	Mr President, would you like me to analyse it again?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u615	I think we don't have to delay any longer, Minister. We shall proceed with the vote. The amendment has been distributed to everyone and it is clear. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Cooperations between the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, the Agricultural University of Athens, the University of Thessaly with T.E.I. Thessaly and Central Greece, Pallemnikos Fund and other provisions". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. An application for a roll-call vote of New Democracy Members has been submitted on the principle of the draft law, the text of which you have the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u616	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mrs. Kerameo Nike. Here. Mr. Javaras Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Tsiaras Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Kefaliannis Ioannis. Here you go. Mrs. Vultish Sophia. Here. Mr. Kyriazidis Dimitrios. Abstentions. Mr. Karasmanis George. Here you go. Mrs. Antoniou Maria. Here. Mr. Davakis Athanasios. Here you go. Mrs. Karamanlis Anna. Here. Mr. Kelles Christos. Here you go. Mr. Katsiantonis Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Andrian John. Here you go. Mr. Consolas Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Koutsubas Andreas. Here you go. Mrs Martinou Georgia. Here. Mr. Georgios George. Here you go. Mr. Stavros Christos. Here you go. Mr. Bukouros Christos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. In addition, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR at the beginning of the draft law, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u617	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mrs. Genuine Lights. I've been away. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Abstentions. Mr. Venizelos Evangelos. Abstentions. Mr. Ilhan Ahmet. Here you go. Mr. Gregorakos Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Karras Georgios - Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mrs. Kefalidou Hara. Here. Mr. Koutsoukos Yiannis. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Maniotis John. Here you go. Mr. Barriots Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Jelephus Michael. Here you go. Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Here. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. Asked by this House: Do you accept to add the two votes to one?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u618	The House has agreed. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u619	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be an electronic roll-call vote at the outset of the bill and after the announcement of the result we will proceed to the vote on the remaining articles of the bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u620	I would like to inform you that a letter has been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, which gives us its vote. This vote will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letter, sent to the Bureau by the Independent MEP, Mr Kountoura, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u621	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters by colleagues, Mr Antonios Samaras, Mr George Vagionas, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, Mr Konstantinos Koukodemou, Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides, Mr Theodorou Karaoglou, Mr Georgios Kasapidis, Mr Evangelos Meimarakis, Mr Georgios Arvanitides, Michael Jelle, Evangelos Venizelos, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present, they would vote 'ORS'. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u622	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u623	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the vote. They voted 273 MPs. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 149 Members voted. Against the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'OH', they voted 121 MPs. 'PARON' were adopted by 3 MPs. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Cooperations between the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, the Agricultural University of Athens, the University of Thessaly with T.E.I. Thessaly and Central Greece, the Pallemnian Fund and other provisions", was accepted in principle by a majority. The result of the roll-call vote will appear on the screens of the Chamber and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u624	After the roll-call vote was completed, we proceed to vote on the remaining articles and amendments. The vote will again be taken electronically by the rapporteurs and special speakers of the bill. We note that the vote includes sixty-eight articles, fifteen amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles remaining to be voted is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any question, please address the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u625	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u626	After completing the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs was accepted by a majority...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u627	Mr President, may I have the floor for a clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u628	I too, Mr President, would like to speak immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u629	Here you go, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u630	I would like to make an observation to make it in the Minutes. In Amendment No 1920 and in Amendment No 217, tabled on 17-1-2019, on provisions relating to the competence of the Secretariat-General for Religious Affairs, we had made a number of comments which had been accepted by the Minister. But they were not included in the amendment. That is why we voted 'Notice'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u631	Here you go, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u632	I would also like to make a brief statement. In addition, I would like to point out that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u633	Thank you very much. The statements of both of you have been recorded in the Minutes. The positions of the parties, as reflected in the electronic system vote, are therefore recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u634	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Cooperations between the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, the Agricultural University of Athens, the University of Thessaly with T.E.I. Thessaly and Central Greece, the Palemnian Fund and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u635	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u636	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 31 October 2018, Thursday 1 November 2018, Friday 2 November 2018, Monday 5 November 2018, Thursday 8 November 2018, Friday 9 November 2018, Monday 12 November 2018, Wednesday 14 November 2018, Wednesday 14 November 2018, Thursday 15 November 2018, Friday 16 November 2018, and ask the House if it ratifys them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u637	The minutes of Wednesday 31 October 2018, Thursday 1 November 2018, Friday 2 November 2018, Monday 5 November 2018, Thursday 8 November 2018, Friday 9 November 2018, Monday 12 November 2018, Wednesday 14 November 2018, Thursday 15 November 2018 and Friday 16 November 2018 were validated. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003: "Priminal Responsibility of the Ministers", as applicable, 16-01-2019: Criminal proceedings concerning the former Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Nikolao Kotzias, Criminal proceedings concerning the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Happy Achtsioglou and the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Anastasios Petropoulos, and Criminal case law concerning the former Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Theodoros Dritsa. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-17-S1-commons.u638	With the consent of the House at 11.54' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 18 January 2019, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
