ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I apologise for a moment's delay because of some impediment. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 8-8-2019 authorisation, the minutes of its 8-8-19 sessions were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Consolidations of the Ministry of Interior, provisions on digital governance, pension regulations and other urgent matters’.]] Before entering the legislative agenda, I have the honour to announce to the House that Ministers for Justice and Finance have submitted a draft law on 22-8-2019: ‘Personal Data Protection Authority, implementing measures of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and incorporation into national legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016’. This draft law has been classified by the government as urgent. As you know, it has been referred to the relevant Standing Committee. The Standing Committee on Civil Service, Public Order and Justice shall also present its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Personal Data Protection Authority, Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and incorporation into national legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016’. Ladies and gentlemen, I have another announcement to make to this House. The Members of Parliament, and so on. Alexandros Triantafylides, Panagiotis Skouriakos, Baran Bourhan, Andreas Patsis, Dimitris Kairides and Theodora (Dora) Bakoyannis seek permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of Ministers", as is the case, on 23-8-2019: Criminal Literature concerning the former Deputy Minister of Health Paul Pavlakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Personal Data Protection Authority, measures to implement Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and incorporation into national legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016’. The above bills following the decision of the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice, on a proposal from the relevant Minister, are discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, the debate and the vote on urgent drafts is closed at a meeting of a maximum of ten hours. During the urgent debate, the rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the parliamentary groups and one of their representatives are involved. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose, in the ordinary parliamentary practice, that the debate on the principle and the articles be uniform. I also propose that the list of speakers be extended and that a speaker be appointed by each parliamentary group. With regard to speaking times, my proposal is that the rapporteurs and special speakers should have eight minutes of speaking time, the competent ministers ten minutes, any other ministers and Secretarys of State five minutes, the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, ten minutes, the Presidents of the other Parliamentary Groups eight minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives, ten minutes, set up by the parties five minutes. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u4	Tolerant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u5	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u6	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u7	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u8	Just give me a minute to finish. You don't agree, that's what I understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u9	You addressed us and I said no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u10	You disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u11	I want to explain the reason for our disagreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u12	Explain him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, thank you, even though I did not understand our dialogue. When you address this House, the House answers you. We say no and I want the National Representation to hear the reasons for our refusal. We are neither pretextful nor abusive in implementing the Rules of Procedure we have been, we are or want to be. The majority, therefore, accepted the Minister's suggestion that the House should function under the urgency procedure. We did not agree with this in the Conference of Presidents, and we obviously do not agree today. We say this: we understand that you are rushing because the previous ones were delayed and Mr Katrugalos accepted it. He gave the explanation, but the substance was accepted by him. But when one looks at the draft law, one realizes that the incorporation of the directive from the point of view of the Greek legal order is also done because there is a fine that is everyday and heavy and we do not want it...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u14	Fine isn't there yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u15	There will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u16	There's a reference.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u17	Reference, yes. And there will be, if there is not already a problem of cooperation with those - that is, with all of us and Spain - who have speeded up and incorporated the directive. If that is the case, then we urgently had to incorporate the directive, a chapter in this law. The rest why urgently, when, in fact, the proceedings in the Standing Commission and in public consultation highlighted many problematic aspects of the draft law and to your honor some of them you have accepted? Perhaps you will accept more today, something you must do before the rapporteurs start, because they need to know what they are going to say. If all this is correct - which, Mr President, is quite right - then I do not understand why we had to move on to the rest of the issues, when you did not even ask the Personal Data Protection Authority. You didn't ask her. You should have been addressed and not addressed. Why are you speeding up? Okay, but when you have so many problematic sections, chapters of this draft law, why did these have to be lured from the urgency that only concerns one? Look, you have been a secretary of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group for over four years. You were here opposition. You are well aware that opposition does not like these urgent and urgent ones. They want the procedures to be normal and exceptional for governments and majorities to resort to these procedures, which are, of course, provided for in both the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament. We're not saying they're illegal, but their abusive exercise is problematic. You already have a "fowl" that you made with the draft law that included asylum and those discussions, where it suddenly came five minutes before the House closed down, an amendment from the Ministry of Labour. You now have an emergency, and you have had an emergency - rightly - for HUNPIA. What will happen, Minister? Is that how we're going? We cannot go that way, Mr President. I have a request to close because you mentioned the Heads of State's speaking times. You referred to short speaking time, right. What you have said is a decision of the Conference of Presidents. So I've said here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u18	And the Rules of Procedure of the House, and I just mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u19	Yeah, obviously. I have said here, wrongly misunderstood by the former Prime Minister, that when given as the Conference of Presidents time to the heads of the parties, it is not given to fivefold it, especially the two older people and the rest of them looking at it. It's to streamline the procedure. The President of the government will be coming today. You've given him ten minutes. You'll be strict for us. How will you be for him? Will you keep the time? It is preferable - and I close with it - that you tell us ten minutes and speak forty, give a reasonable time and keep him, Mr President. You will not be strict on Parliamentary Representatives, rapporteurs and speakers, and relaxed on the Prime Minister and Chief of Staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. I haven't even put time. If I counted this position for you, you should have finished long ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u21	I was drowned in my right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u22	Wait. Don't be a master and a prophet of some data. He has asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative - that is, for the procedure - Mr Janakopoulos. I won't even put time on you to keep my promise. Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am not going to be indulging in a procedural formalism here. What we have to say from our side is that already in the Conference of Presidents and in the process of discussing the transposition of the directive and the adoption of the specific legal requirements of the Rules of Procedure, we have said that, firstly, the directive, which relates to the procedure for imposing a fine, can be discussed - and it could be discussed - not as an emergency, but it could be a normal procedure. Because you know very well, Mr President, that once the legislative procedure in a Member State has started, then on the part of the European Commission, given that special interventions are being made on the part of the government concerned, there is the possibility of showing a relative tolerance. And there is the possibility of freezing, if you like, the procedures for imposing the fine. I therefore think that it is a pretext to refer to this procedure in order to justify parliamentary practice, which is beginning to become a rule. Of the three bills which have so far been discussed in this House, the two are urgent, and as far as we have been informed at the Conference of Presidents last week, a new urgent draft law is also under way. So of the four bills that the government will have submitted, the three will be urgent. Here we are not dealing with a process which actually relates to some excellent reasons. On the contrary, I think it is about one, if you like, allergies which the government has so far shown in the normal procedures and in the wide debate which can take place within Parliament. We are, therefore, already in a situation which also deprives Members of the process. For that very reason in the Conference of Presidents and also in the process of discussing the draft law in the committee, we were against the urgency, considering, if you like, the objections on the part of the government. As far as the fine is concerned, let me repeat - to make it clear - that a fine has not been imposed. These are extremely complex issues, which many Member States have had great difficulties in incorporating into their national law, because there were internal disagreements in the legislative committees. This was also the case in Greece, where the legislature had to deal with a number of complex legal issues, where there were disagreements even with the members of the legislature. And I think the Justice Minister is well aware of that. That is why it has also been mentioned in the committee procedure how difficult the drafting process was. In any case, however, this does not justify the fact that we are going under the urgency procedure. I would like to say that if you look at all the conditions under which the government has chosen to legislate so far, you must be extremely concerned about the role it holds in the Greek Parliament and Members of Parliament. After the parliamentary fiasco before the closure of the House for ten days, on 9 August, with the amendment which came five minutes before the roll-call time, which was in fact not just problematic but completely dangerous and demolished acquired rights for workers, we see today that the government has nothing to learn from what happened. Because I must inform you that for the first time - at least as far as I can remember - there has been a withdrawal from the relevant process of opposition parties. I do not think that has happened before in the Greek Parliament. And as far as I understand, the government hasn't learned. And he continues to want to legislate in an abusive way, deporting the Greek Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Janakopoulos. I believe that tolerance has been achieved so that Mr Loverd's fears are not confirmed. Does another parliamentary representative want to speak? As far as I can see, nobody wants to. Does the Minister want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u25	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u26	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think in a very specific way I have explained why this bill came with the logic of urgency. And I did it not to show you that there is a series or sequence of events that may be linked to any previous bill but why there are real reasons. I intend to submit a piece of the correspondence with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the minutes. And that's where I imagine, Mr. Loverdo and Mr. Janakopoulos, you'll understand the real reason. It is not just the fact that Greece is accountable. It is, in fact, the last country, among the many countries of the European Union, which unfortunately has not been able to integrate into the Rules of Procedure and the directive. It is the fact that this proposal - and you should know it, obviously Mr Katrugalos knows it - is always accepted by the College of Commissioners. The country has been referred to the European Court of Justice. There is a debate which assures us that, after completing the legislative initiative, we will be given the most favourable treatment, with what this may mean. I would, however, expect you, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, to acknowledge the fact that, since we have not been able to complete an effort in the past three and a half years, with a great deal of difficulty, with the openness to incorporate any possible remarks both from the consultation and from the debate in the relevant parliamentary committee, the government is coming to legislate on a legal area. Right now we're with an obsolete law of 1997. Is there protection of personal data? Do you think that if this story were left to the logic of the previous period's consultation with the convergences that existed, would we end up somewhere from today? I said - and I was quite frank to you - that if there was a genuine intention of the parties, here we are in a landscape of responsibility. It is not the concrete legislative initiative of a government or a party. It is a piece of legislation, which presupposes the maximum possible consensus of the House, but of course also of the political parties. And that is exactly what gives rise to urgency. I would therefore expect your overall position to be slightly different. I'm telling you, honestly, in advance. I'll tell you it's a point of order. There are ninety legislative improvements. We have incorporated all the comments of the parties, most of the comments made by the parties in the committee, precisely showing the Government's intention to come up with a piece of legislation, which is not a political controversy. That is a real reason why we need to move on. We owe it to the real security of personal data. We owe it to the image of our country in all the European forums and, of course, we owe it to issues which have to do with penalties, which I think the older Members or those who have dealt with European issues know that if we leave the bells with this legislation, they will surely be imposed on our country. I would therefore ask you, in the plenary debate - you will soon have the legislative improvements, it is here, it is a matter of procedure within - that there should be the maximum possible consensus. It is not a question - I repeat - how a government sees this legislative initiative. It is essentially a matter of responsibility and agreement between both the political parties and the Greek Parliament. That is why we have asked for the urgency procedure to take place from the first moment. I am making a proposal, Mr President. I do not know if the parties or the representatives of the parties agree. If there is a desire to enter another speaker circle, there is no question on our side. The urgency procedure is that which determines the time and the cycles. From that point of view, I repeat, from my point of view, from the government, there is no question of discussion. Although there is a tendency to have more speakers, we are here even until the last minute, to incorporate comments and make the best possible legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u30	Please, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u31	It's helpful what I'm going to say. Because the rapporteurs of counter-population will then follow and, if necessary, - I do not know - the rapporteur of the New Democracy is aware of the legislative improvements, it is good that everyone who is then placed in a position to be aware of the legislative improvements before they start putting them into place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u32	You'll have them before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Janakopoulos, the Minister said so. Besides, it's always done. The Minister said so quickly, i.e. before the rapporteurs began, and he committed himself and shortens this process. I give the floor to the rapporteur for eight minutes, Mr George Kotsira, from where I come from. You'll have tolerance, like everyone will have.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President, and the good words you have said. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating an extremely important piece of legislation. It is important for national credibility, but above all for the protection of citizens' rights. We all know the particular legal value that the European Union attaches to the protection of personal data. Especially in recent years, due to the particular complexity, technical and legal, the individual analysis of the protection of personal data is particularly strict and legal methods have been further intensified. With this draft law, two objectives are being achieved: firstly, compliance with our national legislation with EU law, the non-existence of which, unfortunately, is due to the delays, of the previous government, has led to a threat of a fine being imposed by the Court of Justice of the European Union on a proposal from the Commission, which reaches close to EUR 2.5 million and, secondly, the creation of a modern and codified legal framework for the protection of citizens' personal data. In other words, the proposed draft creates legal certainty, which is desirable for e-government, state modernisation, the investment climate, but above all, citizens' rights are protected in a very crucial way. Unfortunately, our country has not taken the necessary legal steps to implement European legislation in time, and a recent referral procedure has been carried out to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Since it has already been heard, the stage of this infringement procedure is very advanced under Articles 258 next of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and it was not a sudden situation. There has been a letter of warning from the European Commission and then there has been a very long reasoned opinion from the European Commission in the articles I have just mentioned, in order to reach the current situation of the threatened fines. The proposed draft law aims to redefined the legislative framework governing the establishment and functioning of the Personal Character Protection Authority, to adopt implementing measures of Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council and to incorporate into national legislation of Directive 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016. It is, in my opinion, legally and politically well balanced to have a single legislation that implements and incorporates Union legislation in the national context of our legal situation, and in this way legal certainty for the lawmaker and interpreter is available. There are a number of key pillars of this particular bill that I want to mention. Because of the intense technical complexity I will try to be brief. First of all, there is the establishment of the data protection officer. Article 6(1) incorporates an obligation for public bodies to appoint a data protection officer, and there is a specific provision that a data protection officer may be appointed for more public bodies. This is a person who supervises, monitors and advises the specific body and persons handling personal data on the proper compliance of the legislation. This is how the citizen is protected at the beginning of the process from the first phase of his transaction with the Greek State. Provision is also made for the provisions concerning the supervisory authority and its functioning, which have a central and essential role in the proper application of the legislation and in general protection of the application of the provisions of this legislation and of all the legislation relating to personal data. In Articles 9 to 20, provision is made for the establishment and functioning of the independent authority supervising the monitoring of the implementation of the general regulation, the Directive and this draft law, and a common supervisory authority is set up to monitor the implementation of all the provisions. The national legislation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in the general Regulation is adapted by Articles 21 to 42. For example, the obligation to consent to a minor or to a legal representative if the minor is less than 15 years old when personal data are processed. And this is when it happens when it comes to offering services to the Information Society to him. In other words, this is how minors and more than fifteen are protected with consent and less than fifteen, with the consent of the parent or legal representative, if they are in another legal status. Provision is made for the processing of specific categories of personal data, the prohibition on the processing of genetic data for the purposes of insurance, health and life, the processing for other purposes by public or private bodies, the transmission of data by public bodies, the processing of data in employment relationships and the strengthening of the protection of the worker, the processing of data in a harmonious relationship with freedom of expression and information and a number of other provisions implementing the Regulation. All of this helps to protect citizens even greater from the processing of their data in all their social life, while weighing all the other existing rights that may have to be protected. The issue of accreditation of certification bodies and the possibility of withdrawal from the national accreditation system shall be regulated. Finally, it is the self-evident provision of criminal and administrative sanctions, which ensures and protects the smooth application of the provisions in accordance with Union law as a whole. Finally, but with extremely important legal self-defence, in Chapter IV there is in detail the incorporation into national legislation of Directive 2016/680, a regulation necessary for the homogeneity of our national legislation with the relevant Union legislation. In this way, there is a framework of consistent and high protection of personal data for individuals and, therefore, there is the facilitation of the exchange of personal data between the competent authorities of the Member States, as far as they are essential for effective judicial cooperation in criminal matters, as well as for police cooperation by strengthening Union security. To that end, the level of protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purpose of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, including protection against threats to public security and their deterrence, should be equivalent in all Member States. An important innovation is the consolidation of the principle of accountability, on the basis of which a form of objective responsibility is established for controllers, who must demonstrate their fulfilment of their obligations, i.e. that they have not been wrong and that they have taken all the security measures for the non-existence of personal data. There are also detailed provisions of the Directive on legal bases for processing, the rights of the subject and the way in which they are exercised, but also more specific aspects of the wider procedure for protecting the rights of the subject. Issues related to the consent of the subject of processing, data confidentiality and automated decision-making are regulated. Important issues are the arrangements for the transfer of personal data to third countries and international organisations, as well as for cooperation between supervisory authorities. In conclusion - I am trying to be within time, because the draft law and many of the regulations provided for - I would like to say that I believe that the vote on this legislative initiative, beyond what is necessary in time - is pending the infringement procedure at a very advanced stage - as I said before, is an essential legal obligation for codification, modernisation and the existence of an integrated personal data protection policy and, in the end, for the protection of the citizen himself. It will contribute to the necessary modernisation of the state, to integrated and safer e-government and will undoubtedly contribute to legal certainty that Greek society so needs. In this bill, the government shows readiness, organisationality, respect for the state after that, because, as mentioned above, a log of this bill had been prepared by previous legislators, protection of national interests and credibility and the image of the country in international and European matters and, above all, enhanced protection of the rights of citizens. For these reasons, this draft law must be passed by the greatest possible majority of Greek Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kotsira. The rapporteur has the floor on the side of SYRIZA, Mr Katrugalos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, we are discussing a law which refers to a new source of risk for fundamental rights and freedoms. Since the 1970s, when we had the first innovatory legislation at German Lander level, the legislator realised that privacy is at risk from a new source of risk, which at that time refers mainly to public activity. The fear of a panopolic public space monitoring system, under certain conditions too, made it compulsory for public policy to organise the protection of the subject. Europe is a pioneer in this area. While in America the only constitutional basis is that of the fourth review and is based solely on the protection of privacy - privacy - in Europe we have much more localised, more specific and hence more protective provisions both with regard to the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 8, Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and the national constitutions, we have the special provision of Article 9 A and another grid of regulations. It must be made clear, however, that while the first source of risk seemed to be the state, over the last few decades, both because of the very aggressive war ideology of the market, neoliberalism, as well as developments at technology level - the fourth phase of the technological revolution, the Internet law of things - seems to shift the main source of public risk to private authorities. An example of the regulation of the private insurance market is the possibility that private insurance companies can manage genetic data in order to identify relevant pricing policies or even exclude insurance risks. One of the positive aspects of the Minister's report is that he has omitted from the explanatory statement a reference, which, as an important interest in the common good, affordable private health insurance, which would in fact help such risks in favour of the market Moloch, to find ground in the national legal order as well. Even greater is the risks at the workplace, where unequal relations between the employer and the worker occurs. I would then refer to these. The Directive therefore complements the general data protection regulation and the previous directive of the 1990s and includes several important problems of weighing between freedom and security. I would remind you of the old saying of the father of the U.S. constitution, which said that those who are willing to sacrifice their freedom of security would end up having neither freedom nor security. It is precisely because of the complexity of these problems and of the dilemmas, nine countries - not only Greece - at the beginning of the year, on 24-12019 - I mention these countries for the Minutes - Cyprus, Spain, the Czech Republic, Portugal, the Netherlands, Latvia, Slovenia, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic had not fully adapted their internal legislation. Greece was among them. However, it was in agreement with the previous government with the European Commission so that there would be understanding after the adoption of the codes that the relevant bill would be introduced, which would incorporate the directive, which is why the relevant procedures for imposing a fine had not been initiated today. For the rest, I am referring to what our parliamentary representative has said. In spite of what he said about the general samples of writing on the legislature, which the government has given, I would personally like to differentiate the attitude of the Minister of Justice in relation to this bill, at least according to his statements, because I have not yet seen any legislative improvements. So I am in the strange position of placing myself on the assumption that these legislative improvements have been accepted, as he stated, although I have not seen them. The reason why I deplore this is because, with its generally mild position in the committee, which is still in place today, and above all at its disposal to accept the proposals for counter-population, it shows that, in fact, we are dealing here with a common objective, which concerns rights and freedoms, which goes beyond the parties' controversy. I say 'without always surpassing' because there is an ideological core, which relates to the limits of the freedom of economics, the market and the protection of personal data, which makes sense to have different opinions. My general remarks are as follows, apart from what we have said in the committee on the fact that this law appears to be a copy, to a large extent, of the German concerned. The Minister was, in fact, committed to this from the conclusion of the Legislative Committee, which is why I cannot make good criticism. However, there are gaps in the incorporation into this text, which go beyond the national directive, of matters relating to national security purposes. Such arrangements were provided for in Law 2470/1997. That is precisely because these regulations are being abolished by this law, there is an empty one that will have to be regulated in the future. Furthermore, as regards whether the courts are subject to the public bodies as defined by law, there is a gap and in any case there are no specific rules on the processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences. The regulation of Rule 10 cannot be a special legal basis, because it is incomplete in this respect. As our Parliamentary spokesman has said, all this shows that matters outside the direct scope of the directive and, above all, the issues of confrontation, that is, matters relating to Articles 21 to 42, etc., could be included in a bill, which should be discussed in the ordinary course and not in the urgency procedure. I say beforehand that, in view of the incorporation by the Minister of Legislative Improvements we are proposing, we will vote in favour of the draft law in principle. However, we are reluctant to express our reservations about the following articles. Even if our legislative improvements are accepted, we consider that there is ground for further improvement and that is why we intend to vote'residents' in this way stressing the need for further processing in the future. As regards the Data Protection Authority in Article 12, which deals with obstacles, we have a reservation that the obstacles should generally apply to all independent authorities and not just to that authority. We have an individual reservation as to whether the status of a Member can be a permanent emblem for the non-definition of the principle of protection. Rule 17 applies to the reservations which we expressed in the committee on the President's only representative, whether it can be a binding decision-making body. In Article 22, we have a reservation as to the possibility of exempting from the prohibition on processing sensitive data, which appears not to be the result of the Regulation. In Rule 24 we have also proposed improvements and the Scientific Service of the House underlines that the alleged consent does not result from the Rules of Procedure, which it always wants to be express. In Article 25 we would vote against, precisely because the original plan provides for the possibility for private operators to process data for national security and public order purposes, which is obviously inappropriate. But that is where I have assured the Minister that the relevant regulation has been amended. It's one of the most critical issues. I am simply saying to you that in Abu Grib sub-contracting individuals have been interrogated by the prisoners, which in the European legal order is considered incomprehensible, i.e. the core of public policy competences to be assigned to individuals. In Article 27 we have submitted relevant legislative remarks on the protection of workers in their most unequal relationship with the employer. We shall, however, vote 'at present' as in the previous provisions, precisely because there are no arrangements for a number of means of surveillance, such as geodemography or biometrics, surveillance of media. There was no time, because of the urgency procedure, to have a more detailed debate on these. We also believe that Articles 31 to 34 include definitions and regulations that go beyond the Rules of Procedure. I shall now conclude and thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. It won't take more than a minute. We consider the provisions relating to consent, consent, Articles 46 of the draft law and 49 to be particularly problematic. We believe that this should not be a legal basis alone, in line with the relevant proposals made by the working party specialising in the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. It should be supplemented with the following essential conditions for the legality of the processing. First, a reference to national law or Union law. Secondly, in the need to protect vital interests of the data subject and thirdly, the processing concerns data which have manifestly been disclosed by the data subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u37	Come short, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u38	You're right, Mr. President. I had to refer to a number of provisions, which is why I got away from time. I'll be done. I would also like a clarification from the Minister for the Transitional Arrangement under Article 83(4), which states that applications pending, in addition to admissible actions, shall be filed by an act of the President of the Authority. We fear that a number of pending cases, which have been the subject of, can be filed and we would therefore like some explanations. We also expect legislative improvements to finalise our position on the articles. If there are no shocking surprises, as I have said before, we will vote positively at the outset of the bill, reserve the articles that I have told you. If there are no significant changes to Articles 46 and 49, we shall vote against them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Catrugale. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the southern theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twelve Hungarian post offices, guests of the Panhellenic Posts Federation. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I'm going to give the floor to the Minister of Justice, Mr. Chiara, to testify to the legislative improvements. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, the legislative improvements are ready, which in the number ninety. In this way, we show that we have incorporated the vast majority of the comments made by the representatives of the parties during the debate in the committee responsible. No surprises, I want to believe. However, very soon you will be at your disposal. I'm filing them in order to see them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Minister. I would like to say that the rapporteurs who have spoken, but also the special speakers who are going to follow, will have the opportunity on the part of the Bureau, if necessary and want, to fill out their speech on the Minister's proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President,
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u43	In order not to be accused, Mr. Katrugale, Mrs. Giannakopoulou has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is widely accepted that the General Privacy Regulation, the GDPR, is a very serious and important reform initiative of the European Union, with the aim of effectively protecting European citizens' personal data. However, under the responsibility of the SYRIZA Government, despite the immediate implementation of the regulation in Greece since May 2018, the necessary compliance of Greek legislation has not been achieved until now, nor has the relevant directive been implemented, so that the country is subject to unjustified fines. Unfortunately, however, the New Democracy does not follow the right path. Invoking urgent reasons, it brings about a very important piece of legislation in Parliament, thereby effectively excluding the necessary dialogue between the political parties. Minister, over two decades have already been completed in which there is protection of personal data in our country, when in 1997 the PASOK government was passed by Law 2472, which incorporated Directive 95/46 of the European Union into our legislative system. Both this section and the introduction, in 2001, of a special provision in the Constitution, and the establishment of the Independent Personal Data Protection Authority, have all the stamps of the PASOK governments. Since then, however, the truth has been that much has not been done. On the contrary, Greece does not seem to be adapting and receive fines uninterruptedly, as it is the only country, together with Spain, which did not transpose the rules on the protection of personal data into their national law. It is not disputed by anyone that the previous law - and on the basis of technological developments, if you like - was obsolete, not only in Greece, but also throughout the European Union. That is why, in 2016, the European Union decided to adopt the valuable General Data Protection Regulation and, in fact, to give two years of adjustment period, which started on 25 May 2018. The indiscriminate delay in the vote on this bill raised issues not only with regard to the fines that our country pays, but especially, ladies and gentlemen, regarding the level of protection of personal data in our country, but also with regard to the movement of data to other European countries, which have been consistent. With regard to fines - our Parliamentary spokesman, Andreas Lovertos - has to make it clear that Greece is being referred by the European Union to the Court of Justice of the European Communities for failure to comply with the obligation regarding the 2016 directive. Invoking the country's fine and the urgency is therefore only one section and a bill, what is referred to in the so-called 'Police Directive'. It does not, at least, concern the legislative measures under the general regulation and for which the greatest reservations have been expressed, both with regard to consultation, with regard to bodies and, of course, with regard to the parliamentary procedure. The Ministry of Justice issued a draft law on August 12th which had been available for 15 days. We recall that the European Union's communication on our country's referral to the European Union Court of Justice took place on 25 July. The consultation took place by 21 August, and the next day it came to Parliament, despite the fact that there were very critical comments in the consultation. The Ministry of Justice - and this must be acknowledged and credited to you, Minister - has taken into account many of the comments of the consultation - some of the comments you have made, in fact, corrected them - which were obviously a mistake, such as the consent of minors and the investigation powers of employers. Of course, we must point out this: although required by the existing legislation, by Law 2472/1997, as a necessary obligation, you did not send the draft law for an opinion by the Independent Personal Data Protection Authority. A first general remark is that a large part of this draft law is essentially an inaccurate application - a copy of the German model, of the German law. However, you know that very well, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of regulations, which are essentially of another legal system, in another legal order, is generally problematic and does not contribute to the implementation of the relevant provisions in Greece. There are serious problems, first of all with regard to the transposition of the directive. In particular, the proposed draft law is not clear if it regulates the processing of personal data when it is carried out for reasons of national security. This was regulated by Law 2472/1997. Here, as you can see, there is essentially a very sensitive area which remains out of regulation. And that's what you need to see, Minister. Another point is that the provisions relating to definitions, scope and legal basis for processing are based on errors and ambiguities. And that must be corrected. More specifically, as far as the articles are concerned: Article 22 raises major issues, including exceptions to the prohibition on processing sensitive data which are not covered by the Regulation, such as the objective of preventing a threat to public security, and the Regulation refers in any case to the possibility of processing personal data to safeguard a significant public interest. So all this can be covered in this sense. There are also serious problems with Articles 24 and 25 which regulate the use of personal data for different purposes than those for which they were collected. Article 24, which concerns public bodies, contains clear regulations that are contrary to the regulation, such as alleged consent, while consent cannot be a basis for processing by the public authorities. Minister, however, there are also broad exceptions, which - to say it very simply - actually allow public bodies to do what they want with the citizens' data. With regard to Article 25, therefore, which concerns the processing of data by individuals for other purposes, we must note that the introduction of the terms of prosecution of criminal offences and national security are particularly general and poses serious risks to citizens' rights. Ultimately, Minister, private bodies - you understand that, we all understand it, I think, within this Chamber - cannot pursue the objectives of the state, such as national and public security. Serious issues - and I want to stay in this article - there are, they are identified, in relation to Article 27 and the question of workers. The reference to consent - we recognise it - has improved, you have improved it. But again, there is an expanded scope for the employer's action. For example, it also allows the use of cameras in the workplace as a means - not exclusively - of pumping material for the evaluation of workers. The main topics are Article 28, which reserves a wide range of exceptions to the media, effectively announcing the rights of persons - it is at the core of the rights of persons - such as the right to be denied. You must definitely see and review this article, Minister. With regard to the articles on rights of access and deletion, that is, Articles 31 to 34, it is a common view - which was clearly expressed in the consultation - that they contain unacceptable restrictions, vague and unacceptable by the regulation. To give you just one example, which I think is the culmination of. The person who processes a person's personal data may reject their request to delete them not only for the reasons provided for in the regulation, but - listen, listen! - if it has reason to believe that deletion would be harmful to the legitimate interests of the data subject, thereby bypassing and replacing the will of the person. In other words, the person, saying, "written it" and the beginning said, "no." A great mistake is in this draft law and the relaxation of the penalties for breaches of personal data in Article 38, which combined with Law 4411/2016, actually lead to ambiguous violations that have been committed up to 31-3-2016. And one would expect exactly the opposite, Mr Minister, that is to say the stricter penalties for the future and not the ambiguity of the substance. And I conclude by saying: it is worth pointing out the problem of Article 39, which concerns the distinction between the public and the private sector in terms of fines. You understand that the way you bring it is unnecessarily unnecessarily. Ladies and gentlemen, we are ahead of the pillars of the immediate implementation of a regulation and of the incorporation of a directive into the Greek legal order of a very important European and world-wide legislation within the modern - if you like - technological developments and in the face of the fourth industrial revolution. The Change Movement is positive on the principle of compliance of Greek legislation in the new European framework for the protection of European data. We are a genuine European, clear force, and in particular the protection of personal data is a fundamental individual right, which is also protected under Article 9A of the Constitution and under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. However, today we are still asking for the immediate correction of the serious errors and problematic provisions contained in this draft law. That is why we have tabled in writing concrete and documented proposals and we ask the government to take them into account, Mr Minister. Otherwise, we will be forced to vote against the specific articles of this bill, with which we disagree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u46	This bill is a repressive and reactionary one, because, behind the so-called protection of personal data, a new entrepreneurial system is being built, since it allows for the collection, exchange of data relating to political ideas, participation in trade unions, religion, beliefs, genetic data, health, racial or ethnic origin, criminal convictions. The methodology is known. First of all, the various articles prohibit the collection and exchange of such data. It's positive. But through the exceptions provided for - the exceptions, in the end, become the rule - everything can be allowed. In other words, the exceptions are such an area and so general that in reality they are undoing any data protection. It is right that the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament makes such a reference. Read it. So the rule is, in fact, the complete fresco and the exception, their protection. It is characteristic of Article 70, which concerns, in essence, the preventive fresco. This is about each and every one of them, since any citizen of the European Union and of course also of our country is in the middle of the repression mechanisms. Thus, each person is allowed to collect and transfer personal data without even being suspicious of any act, simply for reasons of public order and security, as is called and written. In essence, the right to privacy and the protection of personal data is abolished. Thus, the rings in the heavy chain of repression attempting to bind the peoples of Europe and civil governments, so that there are no protests, complaints, forms of fighting against anti-grassian, reactionary policy that impoverish massively populous masses, which breaks individual and collective rights and freedoms, in order to have fully broken hands of business groups and monopolies and exploit hard work, make it obsessed, shrinking basic human needs. More specifically, on the most serious issues of the bill: Firstly, the so-called independent authorities are actually not independent. The composition and heads of government represent the majority of them. In addition to Article 17, the principle may even be a single representative body. They are, therefore, also the independent authorities, with which they have specific characteristics, the gears of the state apparatus. They are used as a wheelchair to manage the interests of business groups, but also as a syllable leaf to hide anti-grass policy and incorporate vibrations from popular reactions. This role is objectively performed by the establishment of the Personal Data Protection, which is confirmed by the current function, regardless, of course, of good intentions and friendly efforts that its members and scientific staff can make. But not only does this role change, but it is strengthened by the proposed provisions of the bill with greater integration of the principle into both the country's state mechanism and the reactionary Euro-Union structure. Secondly, the provisions relating to the measures implementing the General Data Protection Regulation constitute not a comprehensive specificity of its application, but a targeted use with the so-called 'flexicurity clauses' which it needs and which it provides for instituting even more reactive derogations than general rules. Thus, even any theoretical general proclamational protection of personal data contained in that regulation is effectively annulled and becomes void. I would say that the exception is Article 23, but also some seeming articles, such as Articles 54 to 59, to which we shall vote 'at present' and which concern safeguarding the rights of the subject. In fact, however, they are partly exempted by restrictions. In essence, therefore, the rule of law becomes a generalised, systematic and uncontrolled file by the state and business groups and is an exception to their protection. Describing examples are Article 22 which talks about the possibility of processing so-called specific data categories, i.e. sensitive personal data, or Articles 24 and 25 which speak of the possibility of data processing, even sensitive, by public and private bodies for a different purpose than the one for which they have been collected. Furthermore, Article 27 on the file of workers with their consent as a product, supposedly, of their free will, as well as their monitoring through closed visual recording circuits, i.e. with cameras, whose data can be used as criteria for assessing their behaviour and efficiency. In fact, to gold the pill, it's just not allowed to be on the exclusive criteria. However, Articles 29, 31, 32, 34 and 35 are characteristic - they disqualify any rights and remove rights to access, deletion, opposition to data processing. Thirdly, with regard to the provisions of the relevant directive, which is incorporated into Greek legislation with the bill, I would like to say that they are moving in the same reactive direction. They establish - and indeed deepen - the generalised and systematic fresco with exceptions that are so large that it is not an exaggeration to say that there is absolutely no protection. This also concerns all citizens of the Member States of the European Union. The same is true of the transmission and exchange of data between the security authorities and the various secret services and the repressive mechanisms not only of the Member States of the European Union, but also of third countries and imperialist organisations, such as NATO. Furthermore, Article 60 allows individuals to be entrusted with the processing of personal data. This also exists in other articles, such as Article 75, Article 76, Article 78, etc. We are therefore voting against the bill because the aim is not the safety of citizens and workers as a whole. The aim of all these repressive, anti-democratic mechanisms and measures systematically built up by the wolves of the European Union, together with the bourgeois governments, is the people - enemy and their rights. It is no coincidence that they are taking the lead in statements and votes in the European Union Councils both the current New Democracy Government and the former SYRIZA. And it doesn't seem to us that consensus is voting for this bill at all. The truth is that the monopolies, their governments and their imperialist associations, like the European Union, face popular rights and freedoms as a risk to their power. They use every way and pretext to strangle them and abolish them. This also serves the form of urgency so that it does not develop a dialogue and debate with institutions and social groups to inform the world of such a serious bill. After all, you did the same with the abolition of the university asylum and the hard anti-linguistic articles of the Ministry of Labour, following these of the SYRIZA Ahtsoglou Act, which were tabled half an hour before the vote and the closure of the House. That is why people's struggle must step up its fight for the defence and expansion of the people's rights and freedoms which are inseparable from it for radical changes in power and economy, which are linked inevitably to the overthrow of the power of capital and to the dismantling of the bonds of its associations. And in this race, the JRC is always ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr. Vassiliardos has the floor from Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a bill has again been tabled under the urgency procedure, because Greece is being fined due to the failure to transpose the European Union's personal data directive into national law. The bill was tabled a few hours before it was discussed in committee, where we complained that it is not possible for such a sensitive issue as this to be resolved without a good chance of studying it. And of course, we smiled ironically when the Minister of Justice accused all the rapporteurs directly that we had not studied it well. Fortunately, however, it has enabled us to propose written changes, since it was not possible to analyse the bill in the eight minutes available to the committee, as we did. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, a Member of Parliament, Mr Vassiliou Viliardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Before all, then, we consider the urgency procedure adopted by the government, which is no longer an exception, but a rule. We assume, of course, that it does so either for reasons of impression or to cover its hasty actions in respect of the sale of the public-benefited businesses in the country, while changing their leadership with their own persuasive children. An example is PPC where the sale of its most valuable subsidiaries is being prepared, such as the networks of the DEDDIE and the rest of IPTO, with the placement of a strain of the Italian State ENEL, which seems to have been targeted as it is the largest network operation. There is also an example of the profitable Greek oil, which was replaced by their successful administration with the failed previous one, while it seems to be of particular interest to the Latsis Group in conjunction with the also profitable and strategy for our country, the gas company, that is, because of the energy reserves and pipelines. Here we have to ask ourselves whether it will be possible for Greece to be regarded as a state without its own financial and energy sector with Chinese ports, with Italian railways, with German airports, with Italian PPC and so on. In addition, why does not public debt even fall, which will ultimately turn us into cheap foreign debt slaves? The unique investment, however, is in the area of tourism, where the country will end up in a form of "Puerto Rico of Europe" with casinos and entertainment spaces for foreigners and their Greek cheap servants, in a way like Guatemala, where it is developed, but its domestic population runs from evil to worse. Instead of the government being concerned about the active claim of German war redresss that could give great breath to our economy or better management of the NSRP, where we are entitled to about EUR 5 billion annually by 2023, with possibilities for upwards of up to EUR 15 billion annually, it simply chooses to continue the policy of submissiveness and undermining and extinguishing the previous ones. In the bill now, personal data are considered to be the oil of the 21st century, according to BSE and with Mr. Scarcho, when he was his General Manager. I'm filing it in the Minutes. It is estimated that the market for their exploitation can reach the vicious sum of EUR 325 billion in the European Union and EUR 3.2 billion in Greece. So one understands that interest is not the protection of human rights, but the gain. We therefore believe that one should be particularly careful about such bills, so that the provision of information is not used as a lever for pressure either through employers or through the collector companies that cooperate and have access to data, especially in Greece, where at present there are around a million thousand red borrowers, much more when the average annual income of debtors has fallen from EUR 28,418 in 2008 to EUR 7,956 in 2017, that is by EUR 20,462 in just 10 years. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, these elements should not be dissuasive, in particular with regard to the re-entry of people, as in the case of TIERISIA, which retains our most sensitive personal data. We note here that TIERISIA is a private body of banks that have been rescued by taxpayers with over 60 billion euros, including deferred taxes, and yet they have yet to be left behind. He has been trapped in his archives about half the Greeks, who have thus become servants of the foreigners in the sense of the "debtor of debts" in ancient Greece. As a result, it is not possible to act entrepreneurially, so it is foolish to claim that it is possible to have the desired domestic development in Greece with half the citizens cancelled in advance. Everyone should be able to start from the beginning, everyone needs a second chance, and we all have a right to life that no one should deprive us of. In this respect, our proposal is that all Greeks who have been permanently registered for some difficulty have no longer been able to borrow and start their lives, having been thrown away like garbage from the economy train. Only those who have been convicted of serious economic crimes should remain on the lists and not those who have been hit by the economic crisis, without being responsible for them, so that they are unable to pay any payments. It is outrageously unacceptable that the banks should be slapping citizens, let alone when they have been bankrupt and rescued with taxpayers' money. Furthermore, it is certain that personal data have a great deal of value, while the public disclosure of these data has a great negative effect. Their confidentiality, such as the example of Articles 39, 40 and 82, should therefore be safeguarded, where higher fines should be introduced in cases of disclosure of data. For example, in the case of data leakage in Great Britain, fines were set at 4% of the business turnover worldwide, resulting in BRITH AIRWAYS paying £183 million and Marriott £99 million. I'll give it to you in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In particular with regard to Article 39, a person who has been damaged by the leaking of information should be able to claim compensation where appropriate equal to the value of the damage. Now in relation to Article 27, it is totally unacceptable, since basic principles of the Code of Criminal Procedure and of the Constitution itself are violated, Article 9 and 9A, according to the lawyers, in this case, in the sense that individuals will now be entitled to conduct criminal investigations into personal data without the presence of police, prosecutors or judicial authorities. This article is considered to be a faithful copy of the German. It seems that the Germans have not been able to sue Europeans with the policy of poorer neighbours and with the wage dumping they have been making since 2000. Neither did the imposition of political austerity in the European Union and the catastrophic memorials in Greece reach them to facilitate their plundering, but they want to impose us further on their laws without having corresponding coverage of them from the rest of the legislative framework. In general, it is now a bill, which, instead of protecting personal data, actually legalises access to what the state should only have. The Greek Solution considers that the state is the only one responsible for its citizens and proposes that the relevant powers be delegated to the judiciary. We believe that if we want to say that the state has a continuity, then that is all it has to do with the management of personal data. Otherwise, we should set up independent authorities for the weapons systems, for the police, for the military, for education and for every other sector, so that the state is left unobjected and powerless. For the sake of principle, then, we will vote against the bill, as well as the way in which the European Union directive is implemented, but not the incorporation in itself. Of course, we will be voting in favour of the provisions concerning the transposition of the European Directive into national law so that our country is not charged daily with fines, which the Greek citizen actually pays. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate our request that twenty signatories be found and that the complaint lodged by the pamacedonian associations against Mr Kotzias be investigated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Villardo, too. The reason is the Special Rapporteur from Mera25 Mr. Fotini Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, no one can recognise the need for a legal framework for the protection of personal data and the incorporation of the European Union regulation and directives of 2016, especially since our country together with Slovenia is the last countries that have not updated the relevant legislation. It should be noted that this delay clearly entails a possible reference to the European Court of Justice and the imposition of a fine to an extremely depleted austerity of the already imposed austerity of our own. But we think that a more careful attempt should have been made to harmonise and not simply transfer, copy and paste the practice of the German data model, without taking into account the numerous differences which Greek and German legislation have had. A characteristic example is the main difference in how the state and private law bodies process personal data. In Germany, separation in the processing process has existed for fifty years, while in Greece since 1997, the first law on the subject has been passed, there has been no such provision. But let us now move on to the draft law introduced by the Ministry of Justice. This bill is at the heart of the European directive and of the general regulation, and clearly any directive and legislation contributing to the protection of personal data is both necessary and welcome. However, it is not welcome to copy each regulation without taking into account the specific nature of the country and without ensuring that the proper implementation is ensured. This draft law has also come with the characterization of urgency, continuing with the government's practice so far. Unfortunately, such an important bill was introduced in such a way that it did not allow for in-depth debate. We consider that especially the hearing of bodies such as the Athens Bar Association, Piraeus and other cities, HRIC, the Personal Data Protection Authority, GSEU, ADEDY and many others would contribute to a substantial dialogue and to alleviating a number of sharp points, which I will mention below. Another key omission that we have seen and given that private entities are being referred to is the non-reference to local and other associations and clubs, which clearly keep membership records and are very likely not to handle professionals than private volunteers. How will it be ensured that the legislation is implemented and complied with by them? How will it be ensured that their members' personal data do not become northward, that they do not find themselves somewhere else that they should not be? Unless, once again, we are faced with a phenomenon that we have often seen in the past - not only in our country but elsewhere - that of incorporating European directives into the law, just to end the obligation. We hope and, of course, we are not going to happen this time. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are called upon to judge today contains articles that we consider to be problematic and that is why an in-depth debate and remodelling would be necessary. First of all, Article 22, which introduces a number of exceptions to the provisions of the General Rules concerning specific categories of personal data, such as racial origin, religious beliefs, sexual preference, possible trade union activity, etc., where they are necessary. Unfortunately, however, there is still a huge window open which, since it is not provided for in the processing framework, can lead to a practical cancellation of the provisions of the General Regulation and, indeed, to sensitive categories that would have greater protection. A little further, under Articles 24 and 25, public and private bodies are to process data for a different purpose from that for which they were collected, with the consent of being vaguely formulated. It should be noted that there is even reference to a consent case in Article 24, while the European Regulation states only the express consent of the data subject. Let us now move on to Article 27, which concerns the workplace. First of all, it should be noted that improvements have been made from the original text of the consultation and that comments made in this context have been taken into account. However, despite improvements and a more detailed description of the circumstances and the way in which the worker is consented to collecting and processing his personal data, it should be noted that the worker and the employer in no way have the same negotiating power. Under no circumstances will a worker be able to refuse or provide a framework for his protection against a possible dismissal if he or she is finally forced to refuse to give or to accept his or her processing, especially when the collection and processing can be carried out either prior to the contract, during or after the termination of the contract. In addition, in paragraph 7, which describes the visual record for the protection of persons and goods, there was a problematic phrase that left the possibility of correlation, monitoring and efficiency open. In particular, it was stated that ‘the data collected through a closed visual description circuit may not be used as exclusively criteria for assessing the behaviour and efficiency of the employees’. We are pleased, because we see in the legislative improvements the Minister has just submitted that the word "exclusively" has been removed, although it is worth noting that, since the entire bill was a copy of the German model, we also have a differentiation here, since in Germany the law provides that the worker has the right to request exemption from registration, a margin that our law does not leave. In fact, a legal window is introduced into the country for video screening at the workplace and for the use of the material in the beam of the controller. Let us now move on to Article 34 which excludes the possibility of eradicating sensitive data stored, even if the worker so requests. The employer will therefore own the worker's data and will be able to process them even after the end of the employment relationship, without any final limitation. It is also worth noting that although reference is made to points of competence of other ministries, such as the Digital Governance on digital security and control issues for compliance, compliance and implementation, but also of the Ministry of Labour, since much of the draft law is indeed about the workplace and resurrects key issues affecting basic labour rights, we believe that they should have been signed by their ministers and not just imported by the Minister of Justice. Merra25 is in favour of decision-making at pan-European level. Moreover, Merra25 itself is a part of a pan-European movement, but only when these decisions are made in practice and in fact democratic rules are respected, always respecting the specific nature of each country. The draft law that the Government has brought does not actually incorporate with the necessary accuracy and specificity the European Privacy Regulation, leaving quite blurred points and many gray areas that could - and we fear - be able to do so - allow for the circumvention of the Rules of Procedure and the violation of any concept of protection of personal data. We are voting in favour of the draft legislation in principle, namely the intention of incorporating the European Rules of Procedure, but we are voting against all these problematic rules which substantially disprove the spirit of the regulation itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u51	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima, too. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Zoe Raptis, has been asked for the floor. Here, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill of great importance to the protection of the fundamental rights of Greek citizens and, in particular, to the protection of their personal data, as enshrined in Article 9A of the Constitution. As has been said, the legislative framework established by Directive 46/1995 in our country by Law 2472/1997 is now unable to respond to the current technological data and the requirements they create, but also to the risks posed by the data protection of natural persons. The European Union, as it has been heard in time, has adopted the new General Regulation 679/2016, the well known and the GDPR, but also Directive 680/2016. Thus, the General Regulation entered into force on 25-5-2018 with immediate application and the Directive had to be incorporated by the Member States until 6 May 2018. However, today, more than one year after the expiry of the above deadline, only Greece and Spain were unable to transpose the directive into their national law, even though it had been established in our country since 2016 and had consulted the relevant legislator. Unfortunately, the first attempt to integrate Union law has sabotaged and although another committee has been set up on a ministerial basis, Mr Kalogerou, the political leadership of the outgoing government has failed to put a timely draft law to Parliament. Thus, the European Commission called, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 July 2019, as we have heard, the European Court of Justice imposed a fine of EUR 5,287 for every day of the delay in incorporating the European directive retrospectively, that is, from 7-5-2018 onwards, until the final draft is passed. However, it is not only the heavy fines that will burden Greek taxpayers' pockets, but also the international conflict in the country that comes under the threat again of economic sanctions incorporating the European directive into its own law. Unfortunately, this is a typical delay which is obviously due to the previous government, as Mr Katrugalos also admitted, and this will cost Greek taxpayers about EUR 2 500 000 so far. Despite the oral consultation that has been made with members of the European Commission, it is certain that this agreement has not gone ahead and at the moment the threat is a serious and serious one for our country. It seems to me, therefore, that it is possible for Census to refuse to discuss the draft law in urgent procedure. It's really worth it. And it is not only the financial cost of this delay, but, above all, it is not enough to ensure that, ladies and gentlemen, the personal data of the Greek citizens from unfair and malicious processing are not adequately safeguarded. It is a pretext for the argument that issues outside the scope of the Community directive could be incorporated into another text, that this text could come in accordance with the ordinary procedure if we want to talk about a rule of law. If we are the rule of law, we have an obligation to ensure legal certainty for citizens, legal certainty for businesses, by including in a single text the personal data of this protection in order to ensure a strong and coherent framework for the protection of this data. Therefore, with the draft legislation we are discussing today - I stress it, necessarily in the urgency procedure - we are now in line with the European acquis on effective protection of personal data. We are creating that framework that will allow the country to take the next steps in the information society and in digital governance. In particular, this draft law provides for the provisions for the effective protection of this right to personal data, the rights of workers are shielded and the framework and possibilities for processing them by employers are clarified. The role of the authority as guardian of the protection of personal data shall be strengthened and its operational framework improved and its accountability strengthened. Rules are laid down for the processing of such personal data by both public and private bodies and for the promotion of transparency. Provision shall be made for the processing of specific categories of personal data in the field of health and social protection. Finally, attracting investment for the development of the digital economy is encouraged by clarifying the framework for data protection. The political leadership of the Ministry of Justice has moved on two axes: it has adopted without micro-political nuisances - I stress it - the prior work of the Legislative Committee set up by a decision of the previous government. It was up to Parliament to introduce the bill, a working day on it, even in the Fifteen of us, to wide-ranging improvements to the text being voted on. He fully appreciated the constructive remarks from the over two hundred and fifty, submitted by parties and bodies, both during the public consultation phase and during his debate at the Standing Committee of the Parliament last Friday. And, as the Minister said, more than 90 legislative improvements following the debate in the Standing Committee. All this was done with a single objective, achieving the broadest possible political consensus on an issue that concerns the core of protecting the rights of Greek citizens. That is why we call on all colleagues to work constructively, despite any individual objections that exist, to vote today best for the country, which will effectively address the major challenges facing our society in the field of personal data. Ladies and gentlemen, micro-political controversy does not fit into these issues, and much more so since there have been failed efforts by experts in the other legislative committees, which have been fruitless. And at some point we are called upon to do work in favour of the citizens. I would like to focus particularly on the following points which have been made in particular. Chapter I defines the measures of the General Regulation and in particular defines the tasks of data protection officer in public bodies, a question which has so far remained unregulated. Chapter II regulates the organisation and functioning of the Privacy Authority and specific measures are taken to strengthen its supervisory role. In Chapter C, as has been heard, substantial measures are adopted to protect minors, as expressly laid down in the 15th year to the minimum age below which parental or parental support is required for the access of our children to social media. Finally, genetic data for the purposes of insurance and health are prohibited and workers' rights are shielded, and video surveillance is only permitted at workplaces and exclusively for the purpose of protecting persons and goods. A clear framework for adapting the private sector's entrepreneurship to the new digital environment is being established and the terms of confidentiality are ensured and clarified, while at the same time increasing transparency in the processing of personal data in the private and public sectors. Chapter IV incorporates fully and effectively in our national law the famous European Union directive, for which, as has been said, our country has already been referred to the Court of Justice of the European Union. This is because, as the European Commission says, the non-inclusion that has not taken place so far has created a de facto level of data protection in Greece in relation to all the other countries of the European Union. Finally, it is also clear that the framework within which the prosecution authorities can unnecessarily exercise their powers to strengthen security and justice in a rule of law, but always with respect for the fundamental right to the protection of personal data. Ladies and gentlemen, as demonstrated by the debate so far, both in committee and in plenary, the Government is approaching the crucial issue of personal data consensually, in response to the need for a rapid and successful regulation of the multiple and complex issues created by modern technology and its applications. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] It is clear, however, that no legislative framework is in itself capable of bringing together all legal, political or economic views that are exposed to public debate or being given absolute protection to the data subjects, namely the citizens. That is why a direct priority for the state must be made both the direct vote on the primary basic framework of personal data today, here in this Chamber and the further strengthening of the principle of data protection in the effective implementation of its purpose. Of course - and I shall end, Mr President - the priority is the establishment of a culture of essential compliance by the competent public and private bodies with the requirements of the general regulation and the national institutional framework that we are discussing today. We have the political will and have proved it in practice by bringing this bill before you. We therefore call on you all to vote together for the first but decisive step towards a better protection of the citizens' personal data in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u53	The Prime Minister has the floor, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the floor today, first of all, to highlight the special importance of the bill we are discussing, not only because it incorporates into our national law a acquis that was delayed for fourteen months, nor because it saves the country from sanctions of millions, but also from retroactive fines of about EUR 5,400 per day since 7 May 2018, as our parliamentary representative has said. The new regulations on the protection of personal data are crucial. They are mainly necessary because they are important steps towards modernization, development and democracy. From this point of view they are components of our government's policy. So far, our legislative initiatives to reduce the EMCDDA, the new state, the operating local government have shown our government's readiness. The saving of significant funds from ERT's sports contracts and the rapid and free removal of fuel from Eye marks our respect for public money. Thirty-five million euros have so far been saved in relation to the previous government's commitments since the renegotiation of television rights for football. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Bearing in mind the various predicting imminent disasters, the Championships started normally. The battles with the summer fires we are still giving prove our daily presence next to the citizen. I would like to take this opportunity to say a great deal of thanks to our firefighters, civil protection officials, to the workers in the municipalities, to the regions, to the forest services for the very great effort they have made this weekend in extremely difficult weather conditions. So in the same direction today's bill coincides with the autumn opening of the House. The threefold "project, speed and effect" is the constant compass of this government. So we moved in the first forty days and at this rate we will continue for the next four years, with a programme, consistency and production of concrete and measurable work. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer secret from the major problems that we received on 7 July, from the long-term budgetary commitments to the urgent question of PPC and the hundreds of brakes on investment, from the major problems in insurance, education, safety to the traps in refugee - immigration, health and civil protection. Unfortunately, this has also been true in the case of personal data, a sector which is extremely critical, central - I would say - for the economy, but also crucial for democracy itself, as it concerns the individual rights of every citizen. Our bill is a bill that looks ahead and answers the big issues of the time, because free communication in an open world is indeed a need for the time, but also the protection of every citizen's digital footprint is an equal right. On these issues, Europe has indeed been a pioneer in the field of personal data protection. She was the one who laid first rules, punishing even technological colosses that violated them. It was her who explicitly forced companies not to "false" workers and citizens so that they could use their data at the dock. It is therefore worth wondering how a government supposedly proclaimed individual rights left Greek citizens unprotected for so long. It is not true that its indifference has made us in this area a sad exception to Europe. This piece of legislation, therefore, is an important step forward in modernising, reintroducing Greece into the European globe. It's a development step. It offers additional opportunities for business action, but is primarily a serious social responsibility step. It opens up communication, but shields citizens at all levels, especially minors. And practically this new framework puts order in blurred areas of the internet that today operate anarchistically. I would like to congratulate the Minister of Justice on the open spirit with which he approached the debate in this House. I would also like to say that many of the proposals from the parties, but also the bodies involved in the consultation, have been accepted by the Minister, and this is another step in the sense of good legislation that we want to adopt. It was well explained why the bill came under the urgency procedure. The costs we have to pay on a daily basis did not leave any room, but even in the suffocating context of an urgent debate, we followed rules of good law. In this bill, then, no one can use evidence of another without his consent and no employer may rely on workers’ data at their expense. For example, pictures of security cameras will not be used to dismiss or change one employee's post, while elements of his health - if they exist - must be anonymous and encrypted and stay away from potential interested users, such as insurance companies. Businesses are now gaining a common starting point on the question of personal data management, but citizens will be able, above all, to control their e-profile. All of their individual elements, communications data, consumer preferences, and even their daily habits will concern them alone. This will reduce the constant nuisances of all kinds of unwanted messages that are flooding with us today. Anyone who has so far moved data volumes for unknown use should henceforth think twice about it, whether he is a large digital company or a simple website, which, however, wants to exploit the personal data of its users. Instead, those who observe the rules will gain authority and confidence in the world of digital contacts. In short, the right to free information is now fully in line with the right to the protection of our personal data. And that is why I hope that, despite any individual objections, there may still be new arrangements to be voted on by all of us, which will also be an additional argument by the government in its attempt not to condemn the country to the European Court of Justice, to which it has been referred as a result of the inclusiveness we have shown in the incorporation. Ladies and gentlemen, I said at the outset that this bill belongs to a single package of government initiatives, many of which are implemented earlier than planned. And she's not the only one. Today, therefore, I am announcing another of our programme commitments that are being made before the timetable we set ourselves. In cooperation with the Bank of Greece, we fully restore normality in the movement of capital. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Capital control is a past! [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] The Minister for Finance will formally table the relevant amendment and then give some explanations. I'll testify to her, too. [[At this point the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above amendment, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Since January 2015, the governments of Mr. Tsipras have given rise to a crisis of confidence and an outflow of tens of billions of deposits from the Greek banks. In addition, the Commission notes that the Greek authorities have not provided any evidence of the existence of State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The prospect of political change by election, but in particular the outcome of the elections of 7 July, restored confidence in our Greek economy and banking system, as evidenced by the extremely low interest rates in the last interest rate auctions, and certainly by the fact that we were borrowed from the markets through a seven-year bond of 2.5 billion at a historically low interest rate of 1.9%, while both Piraeus Bank and the National Bank gained cheaper access to their markets for funding. Finally, it is finally closing a four-year insecurity cycle and after fifty months the capital controls are abolished. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the same time, in a difficult international context, a new cycle of optimism is opening for our country both for the economy and for the banking system, for Greece we want, for Greece we deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u55	The Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stagiras, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is consistent with the programming commitments, step by step - one more of them, as the Prime Minister said, is implementing earlier than the timetable it has set itself. It is recalled that the mid-term reduction of HISPIA has already been legislated by 22% since 2019. It should be recalled that the framework of late payment arrangements, in taxes and insurance funds, for households and businesses and today the government, through its financial staff, is progressing towards the complete lifting of capital restrictions directly, as from 1 September, in cooperation with the Bank of Greece, with the agreement of the Hellenic Association of Banks, with the agreement of the Association of Cooperative Banks of Greece, with the agreement of the European Supervisory Authorities and with the recommendation today of the Systemic Stability Board. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This government commitment has brought heavy, symbolic and substantial burdens. I note that the complete lifting of capital restrictions is one of the prerequisites left by the previous government. This amendment by the Ministry of Finance removes provisions of the Act of Legislative content of 18 July 2015, which imposed restrictions on the taking-up of cash and the transfer of funds. This act was then in the chaotic environment of that period, which was formed as a result of the unreserved policy of the then government and the irresponsible and extremist negotiation of the first half of 2015. Today, a destabilising factor, the insecurity of the banking system, the Greek economy, is being removed. Ladies and gentlemen, the economy, as it shows relevant indicators, is improving. The banking system is stabilised, with apparent recovery trends, reflecting the successful access of banks to markets, multi-annual issues and the continued increase in deposits. The indictments were issued at the lowest cost of the last 15 years. The seven-year bond was issued at the cost of borrowing half of the corresponding 2018 issue. The economic climate index has been reinforced, noting the highest performance since 2008, even surpassing, for the first time since 2014, the Eurozone average. And the implementation of the budget is satisfactory. Revenue is increased after July in relation to objectives. I assure you that there is a firm and firm commitment from the Greek authorities to ensuring fiscal, financial and overall economic stability. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the restoration of the free movement of capital is a decisive step in the normalisation of the Greek economy. It contributes significantly to consolidating confidence, attracting investment, promoting growth, increasing jobs, further upgrading the Greek economy's creditworthiness. The country must be done and it becomes a fully normal country in the European Union! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u57	Parliamentary representatives Mr Janakopoulos, Mr Loverdos, Mr Gregoriadis and Mr Heitas have been asked to speak in turn. Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are returning after 15 days in Parliament's plenary, after a huge parliamentary fiasco, for which Mr Mitsotakis is fully responsible, in collaboration with Mr Brutsis, who chose two amendments 15 days ago - a shame, which were then invested in communication with various foolish excuses and without a hindrance, two emblematic arrangements of the previous government were abolished. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] From that moment on, Mr Mitsotakis, who would not go on vacation, finally went on vacation and today he clearly came here concerned, because he is now facing real problems, he is now confronted with incapacity, he is now confronted with the oligopoly of his government and the oligopoly of the terminal state, which is trying to pave up an old political practice, the practice of the category of the former, that they supposedly left a burnt land. Today, Mr Mitsotakis changed his narrative and told us that for all the problems facing the current government, whose final state, in Samothrace, is responsible for SYRIZA, the former government. Mr. Mitsotakis said that we left them with very great problems in the refugee, the economy, in PPC, on a number of issues, returning to reality, precisely because he comes to meet the inability of his own government - the well-known practice of the burnt land. Because from what we have all seen and from what we have understood, the state of service during the staff member's vacation did not do so well! And today he came to announce here in the House a predetermined economic and political development that was the lifting of capital controls, in fact repeating that opposition note about the disastrous negotiation of the SYRIZA, which - I would like to remind Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Staikora - had led to the reduction of the primary surpluses from 4.5%, which you signed by 2031 to 3.5% by 2022. And it was precisely this change that allowed Greek debt to be regulated, which allowed the Greek economy to return to growth, and allowed us to come out of the Memorandum. And today you come and rejoice that you supposedly managed to do everything you could not do in four and a half years, without understanding that exactly the growth rates of the Greek economy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u59	We're not rejoicing. We did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u60	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u61	What do you want, sir? What exactly did you do? So I will tell you that the course of the Greek bonds - and this Mr Stavros knows it very well, but he hides it - has been downhill for over two years. We have reached a historically low 10-year bond before the elections. We had already succeeded in making market exits, which actually restored the interest rates of Greek bonds at the levels of 2006. And what is being done today is a predetermined course of the Greek economy. In any case, what I would like to ask you here after these announcements about the planned lifting of capital controls, is to explain to us exactly where all those promises have been made about reducing the primary surpluses, which you would bring by highlighting the government's new credibility with its rich reform work! In Paris during Mr. Mitsotakis' visit no talk was made to reduce the primary surpluses and the result of the journey was that the treasure proved carbon. So what about this case? Why did you speak to us, Mr Stakoura, for five minutes and you didn't tell us anything. And you did not tell us, given that the 2020 targets remain at 3.5% of the primary surplus, where the money for the tax reductions you intend to do to businesses will cost about 1.5 billion euros. What about the tax-free? A lot of people saw the light of publicity. Looks like you're starting to talk about taking it to 6,500 euros. I don't know if these publications are based on leaks from the government's side. It would be a good thing if you would clarify this because today you are here in the House. And it is obvious that in order to fill the gap, which will be created in 2020 after the measures you have announced, you should take measures. Do you not think it is necessary to inform the House of exactly what measures you are going to take and where will you find the money to proceed with the reductions in corporate taxes that you have already announced? Look, here it is very clear. To cover your institutional extremities, to cover your ineffectiveness, you try to rule with impressions, you try to rule exclusively with communication. The communication, however, apart from the canoe and the ouza of Mr Mitsotakis, often produces ideology, such as your current business - broom in Exarchia. You ended up after all these magnificences about the abolition of the unbaptised - which was not really unbaptised - bringing babys. This was your business today. I think you saw the photos released online. This multi-advertised operation ended up leading babysitters to attend the Police Directorate-General. But what's going on here? Why are you doing this? You were betrayed by Mr Balaska after his creepy statement, where he described every refugee and every migrant trash or dust to be wiped out. Because that means business - 'bug'. That's what you did today in Exarchia. No relationship has this practice with the will that the state should show to combat infraction, to combat crime, to combat drug trafficking that you have targeted them, but you actually end up bringing babys instead of doing what we in Exarches have done. What we have done was with targeted businesses to try and solve a real problem which is the problem of violation, crime and drug trafficking in Exarcheus and not to make stunning operations to fuel various blood reflexes. I think that this is part of a comprehensive New Democracy account that wants to harmonize Greek political life. He wants to rule with impression, wants to rule with communication, wants to rule on the basis of a reactionary ideology that he wants to make in essence an estate of the whole society. We are not going to allow that. But also for the bill, to return to the subject of the debate, Mr Mitsotakis has said too many inaccuracies and has chosen to move in the field of impressions and in the field of distortion of a reality. The first thing I want to say is that Greece's referral procedure to the European Court of Justice took place on 25 July. Who ruled on July 25th? If I remember correctly, New Democracy. What was that for? Because you have chosen to move quickly to incorporate the directive on the basis of the draft legislative committees which were faced with very major legal problems - and the Minister recognised this in the committee debate, that we had very complex legal issues to resolve and that, once again, we need specific treatment and specific sensitivity, because here we are dealing with a matter that is extremely critical, which is the protection of personal data and the conditions under which personal data may be processed by private or public bodies - instead of going forward with the directive on the basis of the normal procedure in order to be able to have a normal debate in this House, you have referred as a pretext to the fine, which has not yet been imposed, to continue to legislate on the basis of urgency, without giving the House the opportunity to discuss and the committees to work out. I would welcome the willingness of the Minister to take account of the various points made, but I would like to make a comment. Mr Mitsotakis previously in his speech invoked two or three points as extremely positive for the bill. The first point was that personal data are forbidden by insurance companies to form their pricing policy. Do you know how he got into this bill? Following the proposal of the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Katrugalou. The second point raised by Mr Mitsotakis was about the protection of workers and the fact that data on the employer's part cannot be used to assess the worker. Do you know who proposed to get this into this bill? Here's the Minister of Justice and he can deny us if we say anything inaccurate. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr. Katrugalos. Mr Mitsotakis therefore ended up advertising a bill that was shaped as it was after our own points of view. That is precisely the problem when you choose to use Parliament in terms of communication and an impression to announce defined political developments and do not have a picture of the real parliamentary procedure. Because that's exactly what happened with Mr. Mitsotakis just before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u63	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u64	For the sake of an economy in the debate, since I think that some of these things need to be dealt with immediately, I would like to put forward a legislative improvement. It concerns the latter article, Article 86, where, after the words 'in the Official Journal of the Government', the words 'unless otherwise specified' are added. After this legislative improvement, I would like to say that I accept the amendment tabled by the Minister of Finance, so it is incorporated into this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many times before the elections - and much before the elections - and a few minutes after the elections, especially in my speech on the government's programme statements, I have supported - and I support - that if one excludes the major foreign policy issues that Greece has, in other words, serious and major, three of the major ones: the issue of economic development, the issue of security and immigration. These are the three major issues relating to the country's internal policy. All of them are intertwined with foreign policy. But making a position with strict formal logic, the classification is correct. The assessment of whether these issues belong to the major groups is a matter of each political party and every politician. We've done this evaluation. The question of security is linked to the issue of the draft law which we are now called upon to vote on. I'm going to go to this with the developments for as long as I'm left, based on what Mrs. Giannakopoulou said and what Mr. Kamine will say. I am therefore making a legitimate decline to speak about the first, the number one issue that our country has today, which is growth and the economy. My opportunity is given by the intervention of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, and by the presence of many members of the Ministerial Council here. Ladies and gentlemen, with the primary surpluses, but without them, in order to understand the progress of the Greek economy to the citizens, growth is not enough to be shocking, as I prefer to say, but shocking for the year 2020 and the years to come. There are so many accumulated problems that are not enough of today's anaemic growth rates. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] As to what would happen if the Samara - Venizelou Government had not been overthrown, we have said it a thousand times. But we're talking about it now and tomorrow. For last night, we've had a long time. So I say that victory in the field of the economy presupposes victory against bureaucracy. We already have the draft law on the final state that operates, as I was given the opportunity to develop in my speech at the time, in the opposite direction. It multiplys bureaucracy. And we have some signs, years now, where necessary tools for development, such as public-private partnership, are not going well. I have one final example to use - I did not intend - because of the Prime Minister's reference to sport and especially football. See, through an easy and theoretical area, that of professional sport, how difficult it is for the Greek state, the state, to cooperate in a field that does not put money. The money's on private people. See how problematic the introduction of this racing monitoring system was after a year of preparation, offering assistance to referees from VAR. And connect it, please, very much - because we were here when Mr Vassiliou, the previous Minister, told us in detail about the issues relating to the education of those involved in this field - and see in the first trial, but not in fact, as a simulation, what problems were created. Make a reference to what the Prime Minister, ERT and television rights have said. They would give EUR 65 million and when they saw that elections were taking place, they began to think that the next day could be difficult for them and the various procedural steps to avoid responsibility began the next day. However, a former Minister, Mr Pappas, hastened to tell us - and made a statement which made me a very big impression, to see how some of us think in this Chamber - that the government here has deprived the fans of free football. The EUR 65 million would seem to have been provided by Mr Papapas or his party, not by Greek and Greek taxpayers. You're very welcome to Mr. Pappas. Why does he and his party not give it a rest today? We must be serious and all this is evidence that we are not serious at all. We're working on the void. We function as if we don't have much, but very important problems. Is one of our problems removed by the abolition of capital controls? Yeah, it's done. The amendment, Mr Staikoura, has now been tabled by the Prime Minister. We want to believe he has sufficient. We cannot assess it, however. It is not possible for Greek and Greek politicians to say no to this, but we think and put this before us, because we do not want to take responsibilities and responsibilities of not doing well, that you have seen all of them and all the details, techniques and not, you have properly examined them. I'm talking after you and Mr. Janakopoulos. I cannot adequacy with an amendment I have seen even at the same time. Do we remember in the first half of 2015? Do we remember that well? I am one of those who lived so strongly in this Chamber and as a former Minister at the time, which I remember in detail. For refreshing the memory of each and every one, the book of Varvitsiotis and Trentou is not spooky but creepy. If anyone says that may be discriminatory, it is also discriminatory at the expense of my own party. There is not a single word about our position in the third memorandum. Half a word doesn't say! I do not know if it is, but I know that it reminds me of things that are shocking and I also know that it reveals details that have taken place, which have happened behind the curtains. Mrs Giannakopoulou, this 'country' we call loan is not in our own language, but in any case it does. For anyone who belongs to another political party who might have seen it positively in those days, I read the book the day before yesterday published by ESM executives about what happened in the famous semester of Tsipras - Varoufakis. Let us remember these things and remember them that day, Sunday it was that the banks opened on Monday after the panic of the withdrawal of funds that the government told us that the banks would not open up with a decision that was supposed to be, in the then government, the fault of Draghi and so on. Was there any more shocking proof that nothing was going well then? There wasn't. I was at an election meeting and lecture organized by journalists, with Mr Stathakis and officials of all parties on the eve of the September 2015 elections. We were all asking Mr Stathakis when the capital controls would be abolished - because then, I think, Mrs Katseli said that they would be abolished in six months - and whether they would be abolished in six months, that is, after 2015's celebrations, early 2016. He said, Mr Stathakis: 'I cannot take the responsibility of saying it'. We arrived at the salvage year 2019, in its last piece, to do that. Does anyone have to celebrate, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? Do you have to celebrate? With what I said before - and I will keep saying - what the economy needs in relation to bureaucracy and what you are doing, I have to think about dealing with them, even with your positive steps, because the next day is difficult. Minister of Finance, your government officials - perhaps you too in your first speech - give a impression that the country is on the ground for normality because we had a government change. If you continue to do so in a moment, in a month, everyone will believe that the problems that the country has are yours. Your political tactics, joy, smiles, 'all goes so well' means that you deny the problems that the country has. Anyone who refuses the problems that the country has, shortly after the elections, in the second, in the third month, inherits them as they are. So you have to look at this very carefully. Mr President, I had my ten minutes to ask for personal data and the need to protect them. But I want your leniency for at least two minutes, to talk about the draft law, as long as I'm ahead of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u67	You have it, but remember what you said this morning, your intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u68	Yes, but without the amendment on capital control. I'd be done now. Isn't that right? I've been covered by Mrs. Giannakopoulou. Mr Kamines and what he said to the Standing Committee and what he will say complements our own positions. However, because I have linked the issues of personal data protection to security, I would like to say two words about it. Have we forgotten the case 'CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA'? Have we forgotten how personal data were used for Brexit fans in the United Kingdom and that research is being carried out there to show exactly how the citizens' views were treated by the various people who were fighting for the Brexiters? There's a movie about the research that's going on. This is the political dimension of the issue that links it to security, to a very sensitive area, which concerns the person as a member of society, as a person and as a political person and to all of these three aspects and, of course, to the fourth as an economic subject. Mr President, to be consistent with my request to you, I have nothing more to say. I have, but I can't make it. I just want to say, ladies and gentlemen, that our proposals for another wording of Articles 22, 24, 25, 27, 28, 31 to 34, 38 and 39 are tabled in the Minutes. From what Mrs Giannakopoulou said, and I too have had time to see, your legislative interventions are verbal, they are verbal. We have proposed a guarantee of the protection of the individual's face against breaches of his or her personal data. We are neither naive nor extreme evangelizers of the Politisly correct. We understand that we are living in a society where the other person's personal data is traded, that they are channelled everywhere: where he is going on holiday, what he wears, what he is doing, what he is doing with whom he or who he is with. He drags himself into this theatre of social relations, as it has been designed. We understand that. We are neither scouts in the sense of a young age nor naive. But when you get into the question of protecting personal data, you must be dominated, and above all - literally, - you must be careful whether, in your exceptions, the discretion you give the public is more than what you need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the day is giving birth today, it has news since the morning, so as a parliamentary representative I cannot comment on what we see, we hear from morning and outside this Chamber. I will make a small comment on the announcement by an oral Prime Minister and Mr Stakoura on the lifting of capital controls. Minister, now that the sea is done, we don't have spoons. I'm afraid so. Mr Mitsotakis will tell us what he will do with red loans - it is a good question - what will happen with the money that does not exist on the market. Why do you know something? It is a very important step to lifting the capital controls, but the measure would have even greater meaning and importance - and I think we will all agree on this, and especially the people who listened to us - if there was a solution to the increase in the revenues of the Greeks, because we have now dried up. The Greek citizen's account is dry. So with regard to the removal of capital controls, of course, but I repeat that we also need to find a solution to the increase in revenue. We would also like you to tell us, Mr Stakoura, if you are sure that the banks are really healthy and that there is no risk of money outflow anymore. These are some questions. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to comment on what has taken place this morning in Exarchia, the vacuum cleaner operation of the Greek Police. You took them, collected them, cleaned three buildings. In one, in the fourth, there were no worlds in it anyway. Tell us where you take them? It's a good question. You cleaned up the buildings, picked them up. Where are you taking them? People need to know that the ones you picked up, somewhere you take them. Are they going in and coming back out next week and going back to the same buildings or taking over other buildings?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u71	Babies, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u72	Babies? The babys? Are the garbage people?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u73	We want you to answer, too, what is it for the government that you have gathered today. Are they immigrants? Are they poachers? What is it? To figure out exactly what it is, too. Also, because I'm a journalist in the profession and we're on a good level, the Greek police broom operation with cameras set up is a good communication game. As far as the championship is concerned - because I am also a sportsman, Mr Loverdos - Mr Mitsotakis said that it is a success that the championship began. Alas, if we consider success in starting the championship! I will not go into individual comments on the television rights and huge sums that the SYRIZA government has set. I'll see you another time. However, since we are in football, I would like to return to an issue that he raised a few days ago, with a special question, our President, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, which is very important. I would therefore like to refer to an issue that we consider to be very important. Slovak police in a European fight four, five days ago - when the House, unfortunately, was open, but it was closed, because you were gone, only we were in here - attacked with plastic bullets on PAOK fans in Bratislava - with plastic bullets, has never happened before! - two of which were taken to the hospital in Bratislava and one of them, with the mission of PAOK, to the hospital in Thessaloniki and almost lost his eye. So we want you to tell us - it has tabled, as I have said, a timely question from our President - what action you intend to take. Are we going to protest about these actions in Slovakia, yes or no? Are you going to denounce these practices to the competent bodies, yes or no? Is Mr. Aggenakis here or is he gone? Do you intend to take any steps to prevent such events from repetition, Greek fans, European citizens from taking plastic bullets within the field, from being injured and transferred to Bratislava hospital? I leave timeliness and will refer to the bill, which you have put to the vote. It has covered us - and it has covered me fully - our Special Buyer, Mr. Villards. For my part, I would like to make two, three comments, although the Minister is not here, I think he is listening from where he is. You are used to us - and it would be a surprise if this bill were not urgent - in the urgent bills. I don't know what kind of political hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo, that's what you're doing to us. What a capsule that is! We haven't figured it out yet. However, Minister, if you were really in such a hurry - and I understand the reasons, the Prime Minister explained them, and you did not convince me, of course, for the reasons I will answer you - you could have been here on Tuesday when the House opened up, because you had informed us that the House was opening on 19th of the month. We came here, and we were alone. There was no man here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u74	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u75	You came on Thursday. Obviously, there was an urgent need for an extension of holidays. We understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u76	You'll listen to me later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u77	I'll listen with care. Sure. All colleagues have said that, and so have we. We are the only country with Spain that we are still paying a fine today. Mr Janakopoulos explained the reasons why we had not incorporated this specific directive. I just want to say the number, these EUR 5.300, which our country pays every day, just to hear it, not anything else. It's not that important. That's why it took the form of an emergency to stop paying this fine. Clearly, the enforcement of the new provisions must be completed, but not with the care of this bill. Minister, in our personal view, it is very rough how you bring the bill to the Greek Parliament. It is a complete copy of the German bill and I think you know that better than we do. We could today, Minister, since your study and your concept were to stop paying the fine, namely this EUR 5 500, to vote on the directive. In other words, we could incorporate the directive, stop being illegal, not paying a fine, and come here quietly, with consultation, with institutions, with time in front of us, quietly and rationally to discuss and not with supposedly urgency. You have already explained why you brought it. Yeah, all right. Incorporate the directive today and come tomorrow, tomorrow, in a week, to have our time, with reasonable and time-free...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u78	It's been four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u79	Four years have passed, Minister. And if we did another week, what would happen? Incorporate, I say, the directive, stop paying the fine, since this is one of the main reasons, and come and talk like people and put it all down. We are therefore called upon to vote on a draft law on the sensitive personal data of Greek citizens. What do we do? We end up with a law that, instead of protecting data, actually legalises third-party access. Access to personal data must only be granted to the State, Minister, and not to the private. Access to personal data must only be granted to the state! The Greek Solution insists that the State is the only one responsible for its citizens and no individual. I will say another thing, because we are in any case there, when we see the following: New Democracy sees this bill as another chance to settle its own people, 'her own children' as we say. I read Article 11, which sets out the selection criteria for members of the independent authority. One would expect to read some specific conditions. And what does he see? Reads about'recognized prestige','broad social acceptance','scientific training' and 'professional experience'. It's all flu. We would like something more specific and more specific. Take care once again to give your chosen ones positions. You are setting up a new state, decentralising the previous SYRIZA set up. You are giving inquiries to people who are not judges and that is very important. You open up to private individuals the "currency" of our personal data and make a distinction, Minister, without European legislation asking us to do so, public and private bodies. Why would this separation take place? We insist that it is your creation, just to help as many of your own. I'm going to go a little bit to work, because you're really giving the employer power to process personal data. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. How is the employer able to process our own data? You say to him: 'You can do it with the consent of the workers'. I was twenty-six years private employee. Is there a worker, Minister, who can deny his employer? What's he gonna say? Of course he will say 'yes'. He'll be fired. He'll lose his job. So that's a little hypocritical, too. So, on more criteria than that, and with what right do you give this responsibility to employers? Here we want an answer. What I mentioned now, a few days ago, the Greek authority applied the GDPR and fined EUR 150,000 to a multinational. You know that, I put it in the Minutes. Fine of EUR 150,000 in PwC by the Privacy Authority. He did exactly what I described to you a while ago. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also like to focus on paragraph 7 of the same article on registration. This is tragic, it's creepy: Recording through a closed circuit of the worker's movements. This practice is inhumane, it is not justified by anything. We're talking about sensitive personal data and you're turning our workplaces into Big Brother. That's exactly what you're doing. In conclusion, we will say this with all the soul we have, as long as this possibility is not available, and as long as these twenty signatures are not signed, we ask the New Democracy colleagues to finally know by mouth Kotzia what happened to the Prespecies Agreement. I see in the premises of the National Parliament and many Macedonian compatriots, Members of the New Democracy, who I am sure they too want to see their fellow citizens in Macedonia, Thessaloniki and Northern Greece. So we challenge you. Come with us. We are ten of us, twenty others, to learn from Mr Kotzias what exactly happened to this Prespecies Agreement, this agreement which you have described as unacceptable, illegal and different, but now you are adopting it as the best agreement ever made. So come with us. Twenty and ten, thirty. The Thessaloniki International Exhibition is also coming. Mr Vorides - who had replied 20 days ago to our President - is missing, of course - to tell him that many, Mr Vorides and gentlemen of the New Democracy, who will protest and protest at the Thessaloniki rally in early September, were your voters and will be against the Ambassadors' agreement. I want you to tell me what you have to say to these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, too. Minister, do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u81	Have the parliamentarians finished?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u82	No, it's Mr. Gregoriadis from Mera25. I just wanted to ask if the Justice Minister wanted to answer Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u83	Can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u84	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must say with difficulty that I do not want to respond to what has been heard by both the Prime Minister and a Minister for the well-known catastrophic negotiation in the first half of 2015. I have to tell you that I am only being held on because I have great expectation to hear the leader of our party, Mr Varoufakis, bring you back to an extremely difficult position, such as every time you make the mistake of opening this very unfortunate debate for you. So let us start by talking about today's bill, saying that the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation is, first of all, moving in the right direction and in that sense, is, of course, from us at least, welcome. However, we have to note from the outset that in the post-Snowden era, a time when we all know the extent of intrusion in our private lives and our personal data from the state itself, but also from many large companies, this regulation seems to be totally inadequate. Therefore, this government, but also any government, could or would have to provide additional provisions from its European obligation. However, he does not. Why isn't he doing it? We don't know. But what we know for sure is what New Democracy did as a Civic Opposition just a month and a half earlier than today. Do you know what he did? She sent tens of thousands of sms - not herself, because she is not a person, her candidates - to unsuspecting citizens who, I imagine, considered their potential voters. At the same time, doing this act, do you know what else he did? He illegald by practicing the European Directive of the General Data Protection Regulation in practice, which today comes to legislate as a law of our country, the government itself, which has already been in force since 2016 in our country. So it's a matter of how convincing a government can be: "Do you know what? I was outlawing myself until a month and a half ago, I was opposition now, but I'm in the government and from now on I'll be a guy and a signatory." If we suspect, then, that what we know very well from the past is what we know from the past, that, in other words, several European directives, but also independently of our own, Greek bills, are incorporated into Greek law so that we can only end with the obligation, without any real intention of implementing them, we must finally ask ourselves why this is happening. Why should a government just want to get out of this European obligation, without actually enforcing it or - worse - intending to apply this obligation only to the weak and not to the powerful? Why? Because this European obligation affects or, better, could harm the interests of the four, five representatives of the large capital and well-known parasitic oligarchs of our debt-government, whom I must say are due to be represented by the Government of New Democracy. What is the only way for the government to safeguard and defend the interests of these parasitic oligarchs from the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation? But who else? Absolute ambiguity. For example, Article 22 introduces a number of exceptions to the rules of the General Privacy Regulation. The protection of data relating to racial origin, ethnicity, political opinions, religious and philosophical beliefs, trade union action, health and sexual orientation may therefore be excluded if this is absolutely necessary for reasons of essential public interest or if it is necessary to prevent threats to our national security or public security. What are the phrases'substantiated public interest', 'problems against national security', 'problems against public security'? That they may mean everything, but nothing and that they eventually mean something that is extremely unclear. Who will ultimately be called upon to interpret in real life what these three phrases mean, but many other similar ones? But the Minister. Are we now to be afraid that, for example, the Minister who increased the rate of the construction of the Greek with an entirely irrelevant amendment to the tax bill, will he consider it safe that Mr Latsis and the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT know paper and squid of racial origin, ethnicity, political opinions, religious and philosophical beliefs, trade union action, health and sexual orientation of all those who are to be recruited in the famous work of privatization and regeneration of the Greek island, which, incidentally, according to the National Archaeological Agency will be on an entirely archaeological site? Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment I can confidently assure you that both in construction and later in the business of privatisation and regeneration of the Greek, all the workers involved will be Christian Orthodox, neoliberal, based on political opinions, never have they in the past and in any way developed trade union activity and also - important! - they'll all be healthy and straight. How do I know and how do I know all this? Just because I know exactly what Article 22 means and its exceptions, which many of you will vote on today. Like many of you, I fear that today you will also be voting on Article 27, which defines the use of personal data in employment relations. So Article 27, although clearly improved - we must say this, Minister - in relation to the text of the consultation and despite the detailed description of how and under what conditions it gives workers' consent to the processing of their data, unfortunately it is not possible in the end to safeguard these workers from the arbitrary use of their personal data by their employers, as we all know that in fact the employer and the worker have no equal and equivalent negotiating power. In simple terms, the employer will put the whole thing to the employee about as follows, "take it or lead it", and the poor worker will of course take it, not risking to be found suddenly with the over a million unemployed who are currently in our homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u86	However, what you say is provided for in Article 27(2).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u87	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I am almost certain that many of you intend to vote on the bill we are talking about today, an article that actually does what? It shall rule out the possibility of deletion of sensitive stored data at the request of the person concerned. As this data may be processed in accordance with Article 34 - please - (a) for the purposes of the employment contract, (b) for the conclusion of a contract of employment; (c) after the conclusion of a contract of employment for the performance of the contract of employment; and (d) for the termination of the contract of employment, i.e., in essence whenever the employer wants to do so, the employer may use the personal data of the worker as he wishes, without in the end any restriction. In closing, I return fatal to the original thought of reading this bill. It is a thought that collaboratively, almost automatically brought to my mind the memory of a truly great song recorded in 1978 by Paul Sidiropoulos and the well-known rock band "Spyridula" and which is contained in the album with the general title "Flos". The generalized and fully targeted ambiguity that characterizes the draft law we are discussing today could perhaps not be better described than the initiating lyrics of the song "Babis the flu," which says, "A story I will tell you about Babi, Babi the flux, which you said "bubby, what is going on here", he said to you, "fly, my friend, everything is flu." This is how it is done with your bill, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, where, if not all, it is extremely flammable that, when it comes to applying it, it can be put - we are very afraid - again at the service of the parasitic oligarchy of our country, which you seem to be serving with great guilt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u89	Thank you for keeping time, Mr. Gregoryides. Mr. Gregoriadis must deliver seminars! The Minister for Finance has asked for the floor for a minute, Mr Stavros. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have listened very carefully to all four parliamentary representatives. I have to say that most of the reactions - not all - to the amendment were at least awkward. Expected. But I'm starting with Mr. Loverdos because he's right. Mr Loverdos said: 'I have no assurances, I did not have time to analyse them'. Indeed, there was not enough time to study the amendment, which is why I was placed by Stephen not only in terms of content but also in terms of procedure. I'd like to be a little more detailed in the process. It was made in collaboration with the Bank of Greece on 23 July 2019, this preparation had begun with the agreement of the Greek Banking Union since 1 August, the Association of Cooperative Banks of Greece since 1 August, on Saturday which passed us from all the European institutions on the content of the provision, without a single party change - I would remind you that among others it is the European Central Bank, the supervisory body that exists in Europe - and today the Systemic Stability Board, in which the Financial Stability Fund and the Securities and Market Commission participated. I cannot, therefore, present them to you on a point of order, but I am telling you exactly the dates for you to know. Now we're going to Civic Opposition. I am not going to place myself on liquidity issues today on how to achieve higher growth rates. There is planning, there is planning on what we will do with the Public Investment Programme, what we will do with the public debts in the private sector, what we will do with the gradual expansion, what we will do with the use of European funds. There is a comprehensive coherent plan which we are constantly unfolding. But you will allow me to come to the words used by the parliamentary representative of the Civilian Representation, who in the Syrian dialect are losing their meaning. He said "the current government shows flaw and creates impressions and communication". Honestly, when one comes and legislates the reduction of ENVY by 22%, is it impressions, is it communication or is it blemish? I know you're swinging your head because these are unknown words to you, but that's okay. You'll get used to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, I would like to speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u92	Secondly, when it comes to legislating facilities in a hundred and twenty instalments for natural and legal persons, as far as citizens' debts to tax and insurance funds are concerned, are they impressions and communication or are they substance? When it comes today and earlier than the commitments made by the Government itself in the programming declarations for the complete lifting of capital restrictions, are they impressions, communication, oligopoly or substance? You will allow me to tell you that for me, for the financial staff and for the government, this is the essence: the actions and not the words. Secondly, you said it was predetermined. If it was specified, why was it unfinished in the third evaluation? You left fifteen loose ends. One of them was the removal of capital restrictions. If she was predetermined, why didn't you do it? Because you were not ready to do it, you could not do it with the situation you left the Greek economy. Third point. You said you left the loan cost low. I wonder. The issue of the seven-year bond why was it done at half the cost of borrowing from what you did in 2018? And if you are not convinced by me, I think - we have said so many times - that the head of the European support mechanism, Mr Regling, has given a concrete interview, that the reduction in borrowing costs is due to the estimates of which government would come after the elections. And you've been laughing at him with whom you've been systematically speaking for a long time. Finally, capital restrictions are not a privileged place for you. You get used to them, you ruled with them. Obviously, throwing the ball at the platform you said "Where you will find the money, the money, you will have to take measures". First of all, we're already answering you. We reduced HISPIA more, so she goes on to say we found the money. I would remind you that before the elections you said that there is no financial space for other interventions in 2019. There was. It's been found without any measures. This is how we will respond to you for 2020 as well. But two weeks waiting because we have the ID. Not all today. In any case, we as a government are responding with actions rather than with words. We are serious and not irresponsible. We'll respond with modesty, not with the predicament you've shown for four years. We will respond with arguments and not with intelligence. And Mr. Loverdos is right. I will repeat what I said in the programme statements. The road that we have been on for years remains awkward and upward. Easy solutions do not exist. Magic recipes don't exist. Step by step, we will succeed in bringing the country back to normality. And I urge you today, as in the programme statements, to work with us all methodically, intelligently and hardly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, too. The President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor. Then you will take the floor, Mr. Janakopoulos - Mr. Varoufakis is a party leader - as I assume you want to answer Mr. Stavoura. So you'll have two minutes after Mr. Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Staikoura, I understand your need and the need for the Prime Minister to come to the House to speak beyond the framework of this bill for things that you are suffering, which you want to contact. We also have a huge need to talk about capital controls, but especially about the economic throat that comes, which you obviously do not understand. Because I hear you celebrate and triumph for lowering interest rates when lowering interest rates, Mr Staikora - and I am sure you know that - it is not a good idea. And it is not a good idea, because at the moment we are talking about today, two hours ago I saw the latest figures, 18 trillion euros are in the area of negative interest rates. This is the first time since 2007 that the United States interest rate curve has been reversed. Do you know what that means? A huge recession comes, for which you are as prepared as Mr. Haloskoufis was in 2007-2008. This is a debate that we very much want to do. And you should know that every time you talk about 2015, we in Mera25 and I personally welcome it, we are pleased to hear you talk about it, you refer to that undeniable race in order not to cut the ESS, in the undeniable race to keep the primary surplus to a maximum of 1.5%, that fight to reduce VAT, so that we do not have a 100% tax advance, you refer to the time you were saying "Vasta, Gerun" in that fight as a landscaping negotiation! We are pleased, because we very much want to have this debate. You came today to triumph for the lifting of capital controls - we understand that, because you have this political communication need - for which you worked very hard in 2015 to come. Do you remember your executives that were urging depositors to pull their deposits from the Greek banks, which strengthened the bank run that your Mr Stournaras relentlessly started in December 2014, which was then Mr Draghi, on February 4, 2015, launched into the heavenly by closing the liquidity bar at the banks? And before you tell me anything else, I would remind you of twenty-four hours after the rise of the banking shares of the four Greek system banks by 22% after discussions in London. We want, as you can see, and we want to talk about all this. We need to speak every week in the House about things of the current news of our country, such as the economic loot that comes. That is why we are proposing to bring back the Prime Minister's time, questions and answers, as is happening in the British Parliament, that you do not have to come here in a very important bill on personal freedoms, on personal data, on personal data, on unrelated things. We will take the bill seriously, which is why I am going to come straight to it right now. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens never needed more than the protection of their personal data until today. This directive of the European Union - here I agree with the Prime Minister - shows that the European Union can play and play a very important role, because no other economic blocks, no other country has lifted up any walls, even walls, to protect against the demolition of personal data and freedoms. We are living at a time, as Edward Snowden and our friend Julian Assage taught us, earlier, where the possibilities for engraving in the digital age make the safety of our stone years look like a children's afternoon. On the one hand we have NSA on the other hand we have CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA and Facebook. Indeed, the European Union needs protection from the state, from the Greek Union, from the European citizen. We are living at a time when, under the pretext of very truly tempting and useful services, private enterprises are no longer redeeming by selling products, but they are renovating by turning you and us into products and, in particular, our personal data. It is therefore, according to Merra25, necessary to adapt GDPR to Greek law and it is shameful that it has not yet been done. That's where we'll agree, Minister. But, as every time the state is called upon to protect its citizens, we must ask ourselves and ask ourselves seriously: What are you protecting? Who is he protecting? And most basic: who will protect us from our protectors? These are the main questions. This bill - let us be a little realistic - will not protect us from the'mega tech F.A.A.N.G.' complex. Remember F.A.A.N.G. 'FACEBOOK', 'AMAZON', 'APLE', 'NETFLIX', 'GOOGLE'. If one of them protects us, it will be German legislation, which will always be stronger and more stringent than ours, and it will concern economic interests that will be more crucial to these figures. What we legislate will concern Greek citizens, Greek businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, every time the GDPR is implemented - it is translated into a national framework, we face, whether we are the Slovenians, or the Portuguese, two conflicting threats. One threat arises from the supremacy of the legal framework and the other from the supremacy. Hypertension creates rules that are impossible, reasonably, to comply, and which ultimately violates the legislation and is annulled through its infringement. Overlying, through the many exceptions, once again cancels and eventually ends up having legislation on the protection of personal data which, as Hamlet said, is more implemented through breach than compliance with it. We in Mera25, because we are part of the pan-European DiEM25, have implemented this directive pan-Europeanly in our databases for thirteen months, even before it was voted on in Germany. I want to share with you an experience, because we have an excellent companion and responsible in the German branch of our party, Judith Meyer, which, in today's debate, sends us the following message. He's sending it to us, and we're transferring it to you. So he says: "Keep aware that if strong players want it, they can, using the law applicable, close our party or any other party. All they have to do is help some to use the law's right to continuous data transmission requests and with huge fines, when requests that are humanly impossible to satisfy will not be met." And Judith Meyer continues: One year after the GDPR has been legislated in Germany, the objective of protecting the privacy of data has not gone ahead for two reasons: firstly, because companies are violating the law, they usually cannot do another and, secondly, because users agree without thought, automatically, without reading the terms, to any request for their consent. When, ladies and gentlemen, companies get de facto citizens' consent to anything they are asked for or at the same time obtain de facto the right to illegality because it is impossible to comply, then we understand that both civil liberties and personal data are at risk. The problem, of course, is not solved by some amendments, since in the globalised neo-fungalism we are experiencing the problem is inherent, but we can do some things to help. First, an addition, for example, that the requirements for reporting to organisations and undertakings must be reasonable and proportionate to the size and resources of organisations and undertakings. Secondly, it must not be allowed to operate any public or private service of good practice which has the right to drag people or businesses to the courts. Only individuals with a legitimate interest to have that possibility. As regards users, customers, website visitors, it is necessary for each of us to have the right to request a file to receive all the information concerning it or concerning it. We need to minimise the possibility of all business websites, and public and private, calling on us elements that are not strictly necessary for the use they are supposed to make. At the same time, the minimum use of the information should be imposed. In other words, someone can send you an invoice on your email, but they can't follow this with an ad. What you have predicted is right, but it must be made even harder. There must be written acceptance by anyone who receives messages. And here it would be a good thing for the New Democracy to apologise for the pre-election period when you flooded Greece with messages. And right now, you're going to ask SYRIZA that he didn't legislate that they've already been banned! Furthermore, when it comes to certain services providing technological applications, these companies should not be allowed to request information that is not necessary for the use of the basic package and the basic application. And I come to the last, of course, and more important, concerning the protection of workers. I am pleased and we welcome you as PART25 that you have removed that hideous 'exclusively'. You did well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u95	And the last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u96	I'm so glad, but I don't know why you started it. Anyway, I'm sorry about that. But I must tell you that the most dangerous word today is the word of consent. How do you define the consent? I'll tell you a very short story.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u97	We're out of time, Mr. Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u98	I'll close, Mr. President. I just think that's very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u100	Today - I mentioned it before - users and workers give their consent automatically without thinking about it. In 1991, I remember, I was in Thailand and there near where I was had a factory burned down at night and all the workers on the night shift were burned. I heard - and I shot! - that everyone had signed, given their consent in writing, to lock themselves in the middle of the night to reduce the cost of safety. The provision of even written consent is not sufficient to protect human life or personal data. That is why we propose the definition of the word 'consensus' in matters relating to labour law to be the result of collective bargaining. How consent is defined is not a legal issue, but it is a political issue, it is a class matter, it is about the inherent nature of capitalism. Since I have already spent time, I will end with a challenge and invitation to the Government, which is in keeping with both the information issue, the personal data and the capital controls. I would like to inform you - you may not have heard it - that I have been with Mr Draghi in the European courts for two years now. In April 2015 - I learned it in August 2015 - Mr Draghi felt such insecurity from his plan to impose capital controls on Greece, which, with our own money, European citizens, took an exact private opinion as to whether he was entitled to close Greek banks and impose capital controls. Mr. Draghi has admitted that. Since September 2015, using the possibilities provided by European legislation for requests on the basis of freedom of information for the citizens of Europe, we are constantly asking to read this opinion. Our argument is: "If, Mr Draghi, it was legal what you did by imposing capital control in Greece, why don't you share with us the opinion you received?" The answer was that these are the lawyer's personal data! I think it's very ridiculous! We're in court. You who are supposed to be judiciary, peacekeeping, special examinations for me and for 2015, do you not want to read this opinion? Will you sign? Will you come with me to the European Court of Justice in three weeks' time when the case is dealt with, ask yourself, the governors today, to read this report? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor. Then Mr. Loverdos will be given the floor, and then Mrs. Rapt. The speakers will follow, starting with Mr Kyranakis from the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u102	Since the Minister, Mr Stavros, has taught us a lesson about the use of the signifi­cants, I would like to ask, in relation to the word 'oligoria', the meaning 'oligoria': was it not the government's image in Samothraki? Wasn't the fact that you decided to hold a meeting in Maximos ten days after the crisis on the island? In relation to the meaning 'communication', what exactly is the language of the New Democracy, the ouzas and the canoe of Mr Mitsotakis, who had told us that he would not take a vacation, but was he finally on vacation? What exactly is the reversal of Mr Brutsi's reality, which at the time of the abolition of acquired workers' rights, told us that in this way he supposedly prevents workers from being filed, which was nowhere but in Mr Brutsi's imagination? I could go on very much because in communication the new government is getting excellent, Mr President, but as far as the effectiveness and multi-advertising of its various terrible initiatives are concerned, I would like to remind her of the following. What happened in 2018, which also led to the de-escalation of the interest rates of Greek bonds? Firstly, the Greek debt was settled for which the previous government, Mr Samaras' government in November 2012, had made a general promise and was regulated in a very specific way, which never succeeded in any of the two governments of 2010-2015. It has been regulated in a very specific way where it says that gross financial needs - I imagine you will know that, Minister - of the country should not exceed 15% of GDP annually, which means that the financial needs of the Greek State at the moment are at the lowest level than in all the other countries, that is to say 15% of the gross financial needs of the Greek State from now and in the medium term until 2060. This was precisely the turning point for the Greek debt, that is, its regulation by the initiatives and the possibility that the SYRIZA Government, following its compromise agreement in 2015, concluded the process of the Memorandum. So all this should be done by the Minister, because it was precisely the points on which we came to the exit from the Memorandum. Today I do not know what the real cause of the further declining interest rates will be, and it will be good to be a little more restrained, because this large, huge declining of issues that are alienated may be related to the overall picture of the global economy. However, I would like to say this: when the previous government issued a Greek government bond - if I remember correctly at the beginning of 2019 - ten years, it managed to achieve the lowest interest rate on payment of the curve, i.e. since the public debt curve has been measured, since 1999, and then, of course, the degressivity in interest rates has continued. So here we do not have a cut that comes because of the new governance, we have a follow-up that is related to the normalisation of the course of the Greek economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With regard to capital controls - and I am closing - I would like to inform and recall: I do not want to go into the debate, Mr President, why capital controls were imposed, what responsibility it was for, what was the attitude of counter-population in relation to the financial suffocation initiatives taken by specific political and institutional centres in the European Union and the role played by a number of officials and the European Central Bank and the European Commission, but also by the International Monetary Fund, because this is a debate that must take place and will continue to take place even if the New Democracy's attitude at that time would not be justified in order to continue this debate. In any case, we will have a long time to talk about all this next time. So I would like to tell you this about capital controls. There was a plan to end this capital control process, which had three pillars. These three pillars had been implemented in their entirety. And the only thing left was to take the last step, the last stage for the third pillar, what comes and does today the government. The whole procedure for the lifting of capital controls was a procedure implemented by the previous Government. That is why I am talking about a specified development. And the fourth thing I want to say - and I am closing and excused for the misuse of time - because it was also mentioned in the new government's measures for the 2019 budget, I think we should refresh the memory of the New Democracy, but also of the Minister of Finance and remind him that, since October 2019, budgetary measures were taken to extend the amount of EUR 1.1 billion, which did not jeopardise the country's budgetary history and May 2019, 1 billion more. In other words, we have had 2.1 billion measures of budgetary expansion, social support and tax relief. Today, the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavros, is coming and welcomes the fact that he has managed to take 200 million extra measures. Compare the 2.1 billion in the 2019 budget by the previous government and the 250 million by Mr Stakoura. And one last thing, which will have to be answered sometime, then we were told by the financial staff of the New Democracy, the then Vice-President, that these measures jeopardise the country's budgetary history. Apparently, they didn't put her at such great risk as she was able to get another 200 million. In addition, the Governor of the Bank of Greece continued to erupt the risk of allegedly leading the country to fiscal derailment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u104	Today, there seems to be no budget derailment as magic. That means political communication and not political substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u106	Wait a minute, let's put them in one class. See what damage you have done now, Mr. Comrade. You said you'd be talking for two minutes, Mr. Janakopoulos. Now, do I dare ask Mr. Loverdo to speak for two minutes? Alas. After the parliamentary representatives, the Minister will be given the floor. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr Stakoura for the clarifications. They were very useful to me, especially those relating to the European Central Bank. Your statements are oral, but you did them at the National Representation. We therefore hear them as you call them. I would like to say, Mr President, to the Minister that, in addition to the problems that the Greek economy has inflicted on arguments such as ours - and I thank you for commenting on it - there is one more thing that Mr Varoufakis said. The climate of negative interest rates that is also a climate from the European Central Bank is a risk. I would therefore like to add - and I say this again - that beyond the problems of the Greek economy there is also a fact of concern. It is the material climate that has to do with the last three months in the Federal Republic of Germany, which has to do with France, which has to do with the United States of America, with the great economies of Europe and the world in general. This is not a favourable factor for the functioning and prospects of the Greek economy. Finally, by closing this small speech, Mr President, I would like to address Mr Janakopoulos and Mr Varoufakis. As far as 2015 is concerned, he speaks slowly. Because whoever is aware - and whoever has been informed, in any case, has not been aware - of what the plan with the code term was for - in introductory terms - 'Albania', for us since March 2015 in the period of proud negotiation, will think with appalling concern what would have happened if the then opposition had not in the end supported the then government which had no parliamentary majority in order to enable the country to move forward. It should be maybe, lower the voices. There is no point in my speech: 'Don't talk'. I'm not an anti-democrat, on the contrary! Here's a dialogue space, but when you have in your history this semester, let's be modest, it doesn't hurt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Raptis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, we have heard from the Qualified Opposition that the articles on the supposed protection of workers, which the SYRIZA Government has voted on shortly before the elections, were abolished by a government proposal. The first question is, why was it so long delayed, because there was a need to protect workers, bring them along just on the eve of the elections? The reality is, however, that by abolishing the disastrous provisions of the SYRIZA Government, workers themselves were protected against the dangers of the dismantled regulations, which - listen to - listen to! they had carried out an electronic recording, i.e. the electronic file of the workers, after having imposed the registration on the electronic register of workers on their grounds of dismissal, making sure that their future professional experience was undermined if they were found insufficient for a personal or temporary reason by their employers. Secondly, what they did was to export workers to judicial commitments in connection with the question of the complaint. We all know from labour law that the protection of the complaint exists in Article 281 of the Civil Code, so there was no question of stating the reason for the complaint in the workers' register. Finally, what we have ensured is work peace and work peace, it is the one that is pushing both the economy and the businesses, and the workers in a better future. Mr Janakopoulou, it is hard to talk about better and delayed treatment of the Samothraki problem by a one-month government government, when you have done nothing for four and a half years about the situation of the port of Samothraki, despite the promises of Mr Tsipras. We were the ones who have observed and proceeded with improving the framework for the contract for barren lines. Contracts up to a point in time did not include specific provisions in the case of the need for a replacement vessel. So we anticipated it. We also started work on cleaning and restoring the ports of Kamariotissa and the Heat, what you also hadn't started by making the first relevant funds available by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. Finally, in relation to the capital controls, it is good to develop the theories of conspiracy that Mr Varoufakis did not hesitate to mention to us, with the famous motto that you obviously invented, the motto: "State strong, Gerun". And you did this to justify your enormous failure in the 2015 negotiations, a negotiation which imposed on the country the need for a third memorandum, with which you were actually poorer than the unfortunate Greeks. Unfortunately, however, what you have forgotten is the signatures, broadly wide, in the text of the Government's Official Journal imposing the capital controls in our country. They are therefore the signatures of Alexis Tsipras and of the entire cabinet and of course of Mr Yiannis Varoufakis. Therefore, borrowing what Mr Loverdos said earlier, 'thought and soft'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, too. The Minister for Finance, Mr Stavros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u111	Mr Varoufakis and Mr Loverdos are right to talk about potential external risks. Indeed, they exist, we take into account them, we take relevant initiatives to shield the Greek economy. It was asked by my dear colleague and parliamentary representative of SYRIZA when we were telling the truth about whether there was room, before or after the elections. We have always said before the elections that we trust the General Accounting Office of the State and the assessments it makes, so we have voted in favour of the relevant measures. But because you are causing me, I will tell you what measures we have voted in favour of. We have voted to reduce VAT on the focus, which you have increased. You pick him up from New Democracy and the PASOK at 13%, you took him to 24% and celebrate you going back where you found it? We have voted to reduce VAT on food. Did you pick her up at 13% from New Democracy and KINAL, take her to 24% and bring her back and celebrate her? So you're asking for more attention to what you're referring to. I'm going to make a third observation. There is a great deal of talk about 2015 and generally today in this debate to make relevant references. I hear colleagues talking about personal data protection when they have a record specialty. I hear colleagues talking about oligopoly when the memories from Matty are still coming after them. So here too, he needs attention when we say a few words. As far as 2015 is concerned, data are data. The country's potential wealth was lost, confirmed by all the international exhibitions signed by SYRIZA in the next few years, the government's outstanding debts, which you in the third programme signed, entered EUR 10 billion new austerity measures in the mid-term, were recapitalised banks, where the citizens permanently lost large assets, changed the ownership structure of the banks, "stripped" the bank's reserves and, in conclusion, lost at least 100 billion euros from the Greek economy and society. And one last thing I want to say, Mr. Janakopoulos. Let's talk with numbers. Get the debt at EUR 324 billion and hand it over to EUR 356 billion on June 30th. Have a good time!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll talk a little. Minister, I would first of all inform you - I imagine you know this - that all the finance ministers are recording Eurogroups, which are illegal because they are not provided for in any treaty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u114	They're recording?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u115	Of course, because otherwise it would be impossible to inform their governments. Mr Stavura, it would be absolutely impossible to inform their governments, since there is nothing legal to record what is said in our backs and at the expense of us for so many years. Since the whole process is illegal, all the ministers are forced to record it so that they can transfer to their governments what was said, otherwise it is humane impossible. That's what I wanted to say. My second point relates to what you said, Mr. Loverdos. Let me tell you that, of course, it is a good step you have taken in relation to Albania, with the Albanianization of Greece that would happen, etc. But there is one basic condition. There's Grexit's condition. Neither Mr Varoufakis nor, of course, the party I represent at the moment, but above all we anticipate and prove that there was in fact no possibility of any Grexit being able to do so for three reasons which are well known. We'll repeat them in the one minute I still have. It is, firstly, a EUR 1 trillion in relation to the 10% that would cost any compromise between the European Union and us in the negotiation. Secondly, it is the degradation of Europe, which is generally seen as and now Europe is becoming increasingly degraded. And the main of all is the 62 or 64 billion by the Government of George Papandreou, which in 2008 was bought by the European Central Bank in order to protect us from our bankruptcy, which nevertheless happened. So, as you know, Chancellor Merkel has appealed to a court in Germany, saying that the European central banker is not entitled, has no opportunity, should not be allowed to do so, that he should not, in other words, have recourse to rescue countries, to help countries risk the euro. The German court held that the central banker had this possibility on one condition that he would never be tipped off by these bonds. If, therefore, the Greek Government, as it had every right to do in such an emergency situation, "healthy" the bonds, would lose all and unreturnably his right to the European Central Bank to rescue Portugal, Spain and recently Italy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u117	I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance a little question. My colleague, Mr Hetas, has asked if you are sure that there is no risk to the banks, that is, if they are healthy. Secondly, if there is a risk of capital outflow, if you are sure, that this risk of capital outflow has been saved, and so it would be right to abolish capital controls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u118	Would you excuse me very soon to answer that question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u119	Sure. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u120	I answered these documents and dates. It is therefore clear that the whole system, both inside and outside Greece, agrees with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u121	I would like to ask the Minister for Justice another question. As we have seen in a set of ninety articles, substantial changes bring only four articles, as all the others relate to syntax and spelling errors. So we do not believe that this is a proper intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u122	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u123	With regard to the addition to Article 15(2), the public authorities are assisting the Authority for the energy audit. That is not enough because they remain interrogated. Officials of the Authority shall continue to conduct a preliminary inquiry without the order of the Advocate-General. The addition, therefore, of this phrase is clearly pre-formative and in no way influences the always-poweredness of the authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u124	Good. We're going to the Speaker's section. We'll start with Mr. Kyranakis from New Democracy. I just want to inform the parties' speakers that he has not spoken by the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, and he has informed us that he will speak around 16.30 minutes. Mr. Kyranakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 189]] In fifty days I think that all - or at least most - feel that we are living in another Greece. Investments break down, universities don't have asylum, police normally enter Exarchia, fires are treated with design and sense of responsibility, taxes are reduced, banks have no capital control today. And of course, the bills are moving fast. I accept the criticism from colleagues in the Confederal Group of the European United Left that this may not be the case for some people. However, this draft law, Minister, has been discussed and discussed and debated again since 2010. We've got 2019 now. I was in 2012 of co-chairmen in the European People's Party working party on personal data. The same things that are being heard in this Chamber today as objections from some aspects have already been heard in words since then. These discussions have been carried out in detail in committee, in the European Parliament, in national parliaments with all bodies at national and European level. At some point, ladies and gentlemen, we must start doing things, delivering them, rather than continuing to talk. Here, then, we have an example of three years of consultation since the adoption of the Rules of Procedure at European level, which, in any case, applies, ladies and gentlemen. It is not necessary for the application of the Rules of Procedure and for the protection of the citizens of their own data to adopt a national law. That is all about the directive. But in any case, let's judge us because we're doing our job quickly. Yes, it is a political choice - I think - that the government will urgently bring about a law that will stop adding EUR 5,000 every day and even EUR 1.5 million in the national budget and, of course, the taxpayers. We do not pay them from the pockets of some'magical money', the taxpayers normally pay them. We therefore want to respect every euro of Greek taxpayers, and that is why I too personally welcome the efforts of the Minister and the group to bring into a single piece of legislation all the diffuse provisions and, of course, the transposition of the directive on the protection of personal data. Do citizens, internet users, patients, workers from voting for this law? They have, and that's why we need to move fast. Can improvements be made in the future to this law? Yes, they can. We are not saying that it is a perfect law or that there will probably be no problems in businesses or in public services or elsewhere. Here we are talking about them, but for the first time people will know that they have a law that they must consider and a law that they can see and to which they can propose changes in the immediate future. We have heard criticism of the alleged non-implementation of a fine. But SYRIZA colleagues, what are you waiting for? Should the fine be imposed first to discuss later whether we will pay or will not pay? The government is doing the necessary steps to prevent us from paying, unless you think that we have a surplus of EUR 2.5 million from the national budget. With regard to two points of criticism that I have heard from almost all colleagues in the Opposition, Article 27 on the allegedly fresco of camera workers, I was really wondering: When one reads the last paragraph of Article 27, which says that the data collected through a closed visual record circuit cannot be used as solely criteria for assessing the behaviour and efficiency of workers, what exactly does he understand? I am glad to see, Mr Minister, that the word 'exclusively' has been removed, and the legislator is even more stringent in this very provision. Mrs Giannakopoulou, I have heard you say that it is unacceptable that the data collected from cameras in a workplace be used. It says in here that the bill is not to be used. I therefore believe that we should look at this critical point again. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. Very briefly for the criticism we accept that we are supposed to copy the German law, I would like to say this. But what legislative committee has been drafted by a majority of the provisions of this bill? The Legislative Committee for SYRIZA days. So, do you blame yourself or do you have a law in another, foreign parliament which is incorporating a European directive for communication purposes should be shown in this way? Finally, I would like to make two comments, since we have had the lifting of capital controls today, if I may, Mr President. We heard this unprecedented, that he allegedly said a representative of SYRIZA - the Prime Minister brings the lifting of capital controls to pave the government's inability. But, if that is the case, Mr Staikoura - he left the Chamber, brought it to him - to continue with the patches. If that's the way the patches are, let's go on, for four years only do that. If we are to criticise the necessary and necessary lifting, complete abolition of capital controls in this cheap way, then I do not know what else we will hear. A comment on babys, Mr. Janakopoulos, where you referred. Really, the place of hospitality for these babys are buildings under occupation in Exarcheia? Because, as far as I know, you have had EUR 1.6 billion from the European Union in order to be able to accommodate these babys in decent conditions, and you, with the EUR 1.6 billion, have not yet told us where they have gone, have built the Moria college. That's the truth. I conclude, Mr President, with a point which I would like to make in the Minutes on the observance of the Merra25 party, which was very strict - and you did well - with candidates from the New Democracy who sent SMS. I have here, therefore, and I would like to submit to the Minutes a post which says: "The Varoufakis Party ignores the European Data Protection Regulation" and has an e-mail which was sent on the occasion of Mrs Sakova's question, which wanted to inform people who had not given their consent to a party mailing list of Mera25, without any permission from her. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u126	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u127	I have a SMS, which I cannot put forward for good reasons, which is from a German number, since you criticised us that we are supposedly adopting the German law. From a German number has come a SMS, again on a list without consent: "We are waiting for you tomorrow at the speech of Yani Varoufakis in Athens in Santarosa Square versus REX, at 20:30. Will you be gone?" And second SMS of the same number, again without consent: "On 5-7-2015 we dared his disobedience "no". On 7-7-2019 we vote Mera25, because this voice must enter Parliament." So now that this voice has entered the House, will you do a little self-criticism? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, too. Mrs Sakova has asked for the floor. Here, Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u129	I would like the floor for a minute, Mr President, because I would like to inform Mr Kyranakis, who does not know whether he is a new Member of Parliament, as I have been away for many years from this Chamber. We're doing a parliamentary job here. What I have done - and I think that every Member of Parliament is obliged to do so - is a question I asked the Government to notify Parliament's parliamentary authors. So what he said at the moment, I think he should undo them because they do not apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u131	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u132	No dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u134	The Minister for Justice has the floor, who wants to table a legislative improvement. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of all that we have said, we are tabling another piece of legislation. First, in the case of (a)(1) of Article 25 of the draft law after the words ‘public security’, the words ‘on request of a public body or’ shall be added. Secondly, in the case of (a) paragraph 1 of Article 25 of the draft law, the words ‘or the prosecution of criminal offences’ shall be deleted. Thirdly, Article 25(1) of the draft law adds a new indent (b), which reads as follows: ‘to prosecute criminal offences or’, and if case (b) to (c). I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, too. Mr. Katsis has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Katsi, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Now a lot of issues have been raised, but I would prefer to talk about the bill, because it is extremely critical in my view. So the bill we are called upon to place today is one of the most controversial issues of our time and of the future. The protection of personal data and privacy, along with climate change, are the two global problems facing humanity, which has to act effectively against its own evil self. In the modern digital age, in the digital world and in the era of the Second Industrial Revolution, huge masses of the population make use of the technology, thus leaving their digital footprint. Citizens' personal data are collected, processed and used for personalised and targeted actions, without people knowing about it, thus making privacy a burden on the big interests. In order to understand what risks exist for democracy and human freedom, from digital totalitarianism, let us take a look at the problem. GAFAN's great colosses seek a refreshed landscape in the 'big data' or a very relaxed surveillance on the pretext - 'cheese' of free disposal of innovative technologies. At the same time, the 'fack' is that the consumer of free applications is made through the extraction of personal data himself the final marketable product. The databases, whether personal or not, are the largest intangible capital of these companies that makes them huge profits, greater than the GDP of many developed countries. Large companies through algorithms analyze daily habits, group users based on their psychological or consumer profiles or even their political "I believe". So, for example, banks know who is a suitable borrower or not, insurance companies know who is a secure customer by violating medical secrecy or even political organisations set campaigns through targeted advertising in social media, as well as the likes and interests of users with specific advertising content. The 'CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA' scandal is still fresh, when eighty-seven million FACEBOK users have broken down, of course, into the company of political advisers in question. Note that the ‘CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA’ in 2015 had undertaken strategic communication at President Donald Trump's election campaign, as well as the Brexit campaign called ‘live EU’. There are good reasons to claim that this scandal has played a decisive role in both Trump election and Brexit's prevalence. It is clear that if anyone with the power to influence the flow of data, and in an automated way, can also influence the behaviour of societies, then we are talking about a structural threat to the concept of democracy. The European Union, by recognising this risk, has imposed a regulatory framework for the protection of personal data, the well-known GDPR, thus imposing indirect rules on the United States, but also on China, which want a more inconsistent situation for the benefit of the profitability of the high-tech industry. This draft law incorporates European Union Directive 680/2016, which already applies in our country as a Regulation. A lot has been said about the threat of the European Court of Justice, about the legislation under the urgent procedure. But it is not the velocity to always call for democratic and consultation processes to be retained. You have therefore copied with the German implementing law, indifferent to the legal adjustments required by national law and by trying to show decisively, you are bringing in such an important bill that it has divided up to the legislative committee at that time, very manually, with this urgency procedure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] We will obviously agree that it is necessary to modernise the personal data protection framework and also that the existence of the framework is a precondition for the state's digital transformation and e-government. But, Minister, the devil is hiding in detail. We must be particularly careful when we talk about Greek citizens' personal data and how the Greek state must ensure transparency in the biennial. Because when you announced as government through the Department of Digital Governance the "G- Cloud" where all state databases, digital police IDs, digital medical books, we have to be sure that this framework ensures cybersecurity and non-existence of personal data to large private interests with the ultimate aim of data minimising. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u138	You've got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u139	I come more specifically to the articles of the bill. Article 22 introduces a number of exceptions to the rules of the General Rules, provided that data is processed for the common good. This can be interpreted in many ways. Who decides on this, Mr Minister, when are there grounds for public order or national security for the common good? How is the citizen and his right to his personal life and privacy protected by such vague provisions that can well spread to panic totalitarianism such as a Big Brother state? In Articles 24 and 25 you have just made some legislative improvements, we have not had time to study them to see what you're saying. I have recorded that they allow the regulation to be processed by public and private bodies. And there is a problem with what we have seen so far that they were legal and not substantive. There is a question in the sense of the consent of the subject. For example, how do you consider that there is no reason to assume that the data subject would oppose processing if he were aware of the other purpose? The Scientific Service of the Parliament points out that this is where the alleged consent or non-confidentiality of the data subject is concerned, when the regulation states that the consent of the subject must be specific and explicit.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u140	The point you made is correct. We've changed it in law school.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u141	All right, Minister, but you're getting along with the dropper and in instalments. Well, let it at least be heard, it's important that the citizens understand. Let's go down. There is a serious issue with Article 17 on the functioning of the Privacy Authority, which we have also mentioned in the committee. Where do we have the unheard of? An independent authority is degenerated into a single body which will end up with the President. In my opinion this is a major issue. This is another case of harmonization which the new government has shown to us from the outset. Do you want the independent authority to be bypassed, so that through your appointed, appointed president, you can make fast track decisions, transparently? Where is the Legislative Proceeds Act, as you have done in the Competition Committee, as you have committed? Finally, Articles 27, 29, 46 and 49 have very serious objections. The Articles provide for methods for the collection and processing of workers' data and for the surveillance of workplaces. Work contracts cannot be treated ideologically as negotiating work with employers on an equal footing. Employers cannot sign extortion and watch them with cameras at the workplace or share their personal data, fingerprints, facial recognition, geo-education and so on. In conclusion, I would like to say that the General Data Protection Regulation is a framework that gives possibilities to the Constitution, for the guaranteed right of citizens to the protection of their personal data, without at the same time affecting other rights relating to the free expression and development of personality. So the transition to the digital age can and must be done with strong rules that adequately regulate the landscape in order to avoid market immunity. So, only digital capital will be a real development tool for the benefit of society as a whole, the protection of human rights and social accountability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, too. Mr. Kamines has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are essentially called upon to abolish the majority of Law 2472/1997. Law 2472 is one of the best legislations that have seen light in the country. I would therefore expect a very great diligence on the issue of the abolition of this law and its replacement. I did not imagine that twenty-two years after we taught the basics of Law 2472 at the university, we would actually have come to abolish this law within such suffocating time limits. We must repeat this in order to avoid any doubt: asphyxiaries are only deadlines for the transposition of the directive. There is a problem of condemnation of the country and not of the regulation, which is the largest part of the bill and raises the most important issues. The problems that are announcing the personal data - we all know - are becoming increasingly important in time. Personal data occur in all aspects of human activity, and that is why they relate essentially to all rights. These problems are identified in the field today where all the shocking achievements of modern science and technology, in the fields of digital technology, the Internet, artificial intelligence, artificial satellites, genetics, etc. Scientific and technological progress in these areas is rapidly unfolding and their applications constantly converging. Any scientific and technological progress in these areas has made the possibility of penetrating human freedom and other sectors geographically. That's what we need to know. By the end of the last century, the dilemma was how we would manage to control the data we are concerned with, in order to prevent them all being concentrated on one point. As we said then, the question was not to reconstitute the mosaic of the human face from the scorpions, that is, the electronic traces we left with our various activities. At that time, legal science mainly took into account the risk of human secret and constant surveillance. Today, with the dissemination of social media and the use of algorithms, the risk is now much more important, because it is about controlling human consciousness in its broader concept. It is now possible to direct people's preferences and opinions. All of these references to ‘CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA’, etc. That's exactly what it's all about. It used to be the subject of surveillance. Today is the issue of manipulation of human consciousness, which is why I insist so much. This is a threat of a totalitarian nature in at least three respects. Firstly, because it concerns, as we have said, human freedom as a whole. No human right remains in the unpredictable, as every human activity leaves some detectable trace somewhere. Secondly, because the storage, processing and exploitation of personal data is normally conducted in secret and false terms, i.e. under secret conditions. As the threat is invisible, it ends up being seen as always present, so that people start limiting their events to the public sphere. So the danger of a generally self-determination of people exists. The third, which can be regarded as total, is the double risk of personality. It comes from both the private sector and the public. But today we are called upon to make a statement on such suffocating deadlines. Three labels. In the field of employment, whoever has nursed both in the private and public sectors, knows, Minister, that the major risks are in the private sector. There are, above all, unprotected workers. In the public sector, they have strong trade unions to protect them. In the private sector, in particular, it is the problem. The bill only covers part of the offenses of freedom. In the Municipality of Athens we had the problem that, once before my term, machinery was introduced to allow the geologicalization of wastewaters, to see where the waste water treatments are going, to limit the routes, to save, etc. The workers removed these. They didn't want it. So it's not just video surveillance. They need to be regulated because they are very often very useful, and the issues and geodetects of employment relations and biometric data in the field of work. The bill also gives absolute priority to the right of information and information. This is of course - not absolute - to strengthen protection, because the right to expression and information is very important for democracy. But there's a right to oblivion too. We must all have the right to impose on websites and the media at some point to delete all our elements from there. The exceptions contained in the bill in relation to the chapters of the regulation leave it unregulated and I believe that it is something that we need to see very carefully. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, has the floor for ten minutes. Then Mr. Mylonakis will take the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. The government has of course become accustomed to us in the moves of impression and on the substance it does nothing but sell seaweed for silk ribbons. So today we have had the embassy of the Prime Minister for the complete lifting of the capital controls. It is an action which, of course, forms part of the systematic effort that is being made to promote government policy but also the painful impact on people's strata. Of course, this effort is aimed at alleviating the people's criteria to the anti-grass-Morocco commitments. All anti-grassian, anti-grassroots commitments remain in force. Really, through this complete lifting of capital controls will there be some improvement in the status of the unemployed? Will the position on the abolition of workers' working and insurance rights be changed? Will the self-employed persons who are violently driven out of the market or poor medium-sized farmers find a difference? Will there be a different approach to all these issues? Oh, no. Because it is precisely the measures that accompany the life of the working class and the rest of the people's strata that will continue to exist. The legislative framework for the reproduction of a very cheap work force without rights will live and reign in the name of competitiveness and profitability of business groups. After all, this is another episode, as is the case with the case of tax changes. Behind some "blacks" given to the populaces, the government is trying to hide the "carpets" that it wants to offer to business groups through the scandalous further reduction of any minimum, infinitely tax burdens, the business groups had. Who benefit from the complete lifting of capital controls? It is clear that the banks, but also the monopolies, are also benefiting, because they will have much easier access to new capital. Therefore, the notorious return to normality is nothing more than the scandalous and provocative broadening of the prerogatives of capital when not only for the workers remains intact, but it is even stronger with the last-minute regulations and amendments, the working middle-century. From this point of view, therefore, it is obvious that the agonizing effort is being made to promote government policy. Of course, today's bill also makes a systematic effort to make the European Union's finest on the issue of the protection of personal data. And, of course, here the government has worthy of support for the rest of the Euromono street parties. After all, what the Prime Minister provoked, that the European Union fined the multinationals of new technologies, is nothing more than another incident in the trade war between the United States and the European Union. The pretext was to protect personal data. After all, the urgency procedure with which the government has chosen to come up with this serious bill is in line with the reactionary provisions of both the directive and the European Union regulation, in which, on the pretext of protecting personal data on the substance, it is moving towards a generalised and preventive fresco of peoples for the control and safeguarding of the interests of capitalists. And it couldn't be done differently. At a time when the capitalist system is becoming increasingly rotten, at a time when the European Union itself, by means of directives, of course, breaks down labour, insurance and trade rights in the name of competitiveness and capitalist profitability, would be a motto that the European Union itself, this wolf alliance, is interested in protecting personal data. Just using general provisions, it forms an inappropriate system on the substance, which systematically legitimises the electronic file. So the legislative framework that is being formulated becomes so general, so general, that it essentially supports the systematic and uncontrolled file by the state, the urban state and its supranational bodies and business groups and, of course, is an exception to the protection of rights. In addition, the state and private individuals can collect, but also process, personal data and, for particular purposes, process them for other reasons than the purposes for which they were collected. So there is nothing but a provocative and preventive fresco, especially for reasons of public order, but also for security. By who? From the labour movement, from the folk movement that resists, which fights these policies and choices? That is why a special category of these articles is also the electronic file of workers, and indeed in such a provocative way that in essence it creates an even more suffocating framework for the attitude of workers within the workplace, completely weakening which individual, labour, but also collective and trade union rights. On the substance, employers themselves can control all personal data, but they can also determine, blackmail and threaten workers, subject the whole working class to the interests of the capitalists. That is why this concentration of personal data is not only used for the purposes for which it is collected. It can also have wider implications. Of course the same applies to the transmission and exchange of data between the safety authorities, but also to the various secret services and repressive mechanisms, not only of the Member States of the European Union, but also of third countries and third countries, but also of imperialist organisations. And the United States and NATO can access these personal data, process them with specific purposes and directions. From this point of view, therefore, it is clear that here all this effort is being made to create such a suffocating framework for the armoring of the capitalist system, for preventive control of threats and extortion by all those who are not compatible, by all those who are resisting it. That is why, as a JRC, what we want to emphasise to workers and other peoples is that they must not have any confidence in the urban state, which is a state that defends the interests of capital and breaks the rights of workers. They cannot have any confidence in the independent authorities, which are, of course, a leaf in the application of all these anti-grassy, reactionary provisions. And we stress that the protection and expansion of their individual and collective rights are directly linked to the struggle to improve their place in the workplace, to improve the position of the working class and the rest of the people's family, is directly linked to more overall ruptures and overthrows.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u147	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u148	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u149	I would like to say, Mr President, why should it be recorded in the Minutes, that due to the adoption of this amendment on the definitive lifting of capital controls, we must add to the title of the draft law the words 'and other provisions'. This to be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u150	Thank you. Mr. Mylonakis has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since 12: 30 I have been following this debate on the bill with great attention. Minister, because this bill you bring is one of the most serious bills - and we must admit that, because the only island of freedom for the Greek citizen now is his individual rights, personal data - I think he must stop this tale and the bad habit that New Democracy seems to have acquired from SYRIZA. He's got it. When you were in opposition, you were shouting that bills should not come in the form of an emergency. Now, while you could bring the bill into consultation and the committees on Tuesday, as our parliamentary representative, Mr Hetas, told you, brought it on Thursday at 20:00 and Friday at 10: 00. I think you should answer that because it's very serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u152	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u153	Minister, after bringing it in the form of an emergency, you could incorporate Community Directive 680/2016 into this law. Besides, there was Law 2472 since 1997. I think it would cover the case that she would not have our homeland with the fines granted to her by SYRIZA's gentlemen when she was in the government because she left them a lot of bad things. One of these evils was that, while for fourteen months they had it in drawers, this Community directive could have been incorporated and not have had a fine of EUR 5,280 per day or from 1 July to 22,500. On the other hand, I would like to ask you this: you are bringing in the incorporation of the Community directive and at the same time you are making a new legislation, a new law. What is the point of making this law so quickly without discussing it further? I am sure that if I ask Members here, few people have read this law that you have brought. And, of course, you also gave credit to your partners - and you did well - to the committee that they have worked on it for a long time. How could this bill have worked long enough and we should be in eight, ten or fifteen hours to get this bill out? You have built an Independent Personal Character Data Authority and are effectively transferring powers of the State to this principle. In fact, the qualifications that the head of this authority must have and the members are scientific training and professional experience. Fortunately, with legislative improvement, you have removed the first two, people of unknown prestige and broad social acceptance, which I think have nothing to do with them. So, does it have to be a person of unknown prestige? All persons of unknown prestige are. But how can you transfer these powers to a principle, namely to third parties or to individuals? And how can we secure each citizen's personal data from a principle like that? As far as the powers of investigation are concerned, you have also given the President, Minister, and you need to see this. It is not possible unilaterally to decide on these matters by the President of the Privacy Authority, or to authorize foreign companies to intervene and process Greek citizens' personal data. Article 27 - it is a very serious matter - that the personal data that the employer may claim from the worker are not defined. Secondly, there is no freedom of choice for the worker when the employer asks him if he wants to consent to the provision of personal data.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u154	Describe. Consent now in exceptional cases and only because it favours the worker, as is the company insurance contract. That's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u155	What we must also say is the recording through a closed circuit of workers' movements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u156	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u157	This must be completely removed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u158	There isn't! But I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u159	All right, it's gone. So the state has to keep up with it. We will not stop, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, from asking for thirty signatures to go to a committee of inquiry to see what is going on with the Prespecies Agreement and how Mr Kotzias signed this agreement. I think 20 more signatures can be found. We have ten signatures. We expect that from New Democracy, mainly from the Macedonian MPs. We must make a committee of inquiry to see what is going on, because the paccedonical associations have also filed their complaints. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u160	And we thank Mr. Mylonakis. We'll close the circle of speakers with Mrs. Adamopoulos from Mera25. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you have tabled a bill to the vote, which - let me say it - is a pretext of German law. And I say cowboy, because you have adopted indiscriminately and carried a text without taking into account that Germany is a country with other structures, other conditions, other services and a long tradition of personal data legislation. Despite the fact that the law is of enormous interest to all citizens, you have tabled a text - let me say - quite unmistakable, quite vague and unmistakable, which is not, in substance, an implementing law of the regulation which, as is known, is in force for all the Member States. On the other hand, it is a good incorporation of the regulation and an unfortunate pool of incorporation of the relevant Community directive. You abolished the arrest of Law 2472/1997, which had been tested in practical and legal terms, while you could make the necessary adjustments to this law and any obsolete provisions of it. Furthermore, it is not regulated how the provisions of the relevant laws, 3471/2006 and 3917/2011 coexist with this draft law, so that the average citizen does not create an insecurity of law with an incomprehensible, peculiar and insecure grid of different legislations with relevant regulatory objects. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice Avoid being specifically and detailed in relation to the specific scientific qualifications of the protection officer. Here we need practically a specialist from a legal and, at the same time, serious knowledge of computer systems. Since, of course, this combination is extremely rare, choosing not to clarify the landscape of its knowledge, close the eye in the various training centres with their doubtful quality certifications. The definition of qualifications should be made in cooperation with the National Accreditation System, which is rightly provided for in the draft law, but it is necessary to establish a lifelong education programme for these posts, since the rapid progress of technology requires continuous information on developments in the field. Let us remind you that the Privacy Authority has been running a two-year European privacy professional training programme for months, which, unfortunately, is still untapped. In Article 22, for the specific categories of sensitive data, you are introducing as an exception the reason for essential interest, without providing for a clause that is proportionate to the objective and respect for the fundamental rights of the subject, as provided for in the relevant regulation. You are referring vaguely to concepts - and these which have been transposed from the German text - as 'joint good', 'threatening public security', without even defining and specialising them, thus leaving a huge gap of interpretation and, possibly, a wide margin of divergence from Article 9 of the regulation. In Article 24(1)(a), for the processing of data by public bodies for purposes other than those for which they have been collected, you make an unauthorised presumption, that consent is automatically granted by the subject, whereas the Regulation in its respective Articles and in its recital provides that the consent is always express, clear and specific, so that it does not allow interpretations and assumptions which serve all reasonable purposes. You set a number of general exceptions, vaguely formulated and, unlike the recital in Article 24, you accept that personal data may still be processed for purposes incompatible with the original purpose of their collection, thereby circumventing the regulation and the constitutional principle of proportionality. In relation to Rule 27, you have today made a good deletion of paragraph 2, allowing the private operator to process data in exchange for an economic advantage, which automatically did not prejudice the freedom of choice of the worker. However, given the lack of negotiation power of the worker, in fact you are provoking the consent of the worker, in breach of the core of his personal autonomy, in the recital to the German law that you adopted neither in the caselaw of the European Court of Human Rights nor even in the views of the authority itself - and without providing a security for the worker himself, who will not give his consent or exercise the right to withdraw his consent or to the worker whose data will have already been exploited by the employer. Therefore, there is no framework for protection against misappropriation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I request a little tolerance for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u162	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u163	Let us remember here, of course, the recent coup d'état amendment which abolishes the right reason for dismissal, so the employer is still being protected. You also regulate the topics of video surveillance, but you do not explicitly prohibit the recording of workers through monitoring systems or even rules on the processing and protection of workers' data when using means of surveillance, such as geo-education, media surveillance, etc. With regard to Article 42, there is no possibility of initiatives in civil society, as provided for in the relevant articles of the regulation and the introduction of collective protection in the standard of Actio popularis, the Consumer Protection Act. Pursuant to these articles, it would also be extremely beneficial for associations and non-profit organisations with specialization and knowledge in personal data, not only to report to the authority cases of breaches, but, at the same time, to exercise self-defence on behalf of the subject, even on behalf of the subject, the right to legal action and claim for damages. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried at the very minimum time to outline briefly the serious problems - and it will create - the bill, with serious problems even on the presumption of innocence. Today, we are called upon to be placed to protect our privacy and ultimately to protect our personal freedom. Unfortunately, the government, loyal to the road it has taken since the early hours, has continued unforeseen. The so important protection of our personal data once again becomes a rough and hasty legislative initiative, with suffocating public consultation, with absolutely duplicitous, unspeakable, hearing bodies - not even an opinion of the principle itself - and many and great errors and deficits which are wrongly considered to exceed once again the seal of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks is organized and operating, eleven new members of the Greek-Cyprus and Israel diaspora, and three of the General Secretariat of Greek Democrats. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister of Justice, Mr. Tsiaras, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, would the Minister also like to hear the words?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u166	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there are no secondary periods.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u167	The president said they'd be there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u168	If you want, you can make a comment on legal improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u169	If the Minister allows you, I have no objections. How many minutes will it take, Mr. Catrugale?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u170	Three minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u171	Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. It is necessary for me to be placed on the table, because the Minister has accepted many proposals for legislative improvements, for which I have not been able to place myself fully in my original position. First of all, I would like to say that, to the extent permitted by the urgency procedure, there has been a substantial debate which has allowed personal data risks to arise, more generally for personal freedom. I would particularly like to stress the fact that risks have been dispersed and those caused by another Minister, the Minister of Labour, have been raised as a sad pretext for abolishing a very protective provision in favour of workers. I would remind you that Mr Brutsis had claimed that by abolishing the provision requiring redundancies of workers to be justified, they are themselves protected from their file by the employer. It is clear why the regulation was in place long before this matter was discussed. It has also been shown that it was a pretext not to invoke that word. And I have to say that in Article 27, which still has a number of problems, the Minister accepted some of our proposals, concerning the improvement of existing protection, concerning the non-assessment of personnel from the elements resulting from closed-circuit monitoring systems, the prohibition on the protection of personal data in relation to the termination of the contract, etc. So in view of these, and because we acknowledge - and I repeat - the attempt made at very limited time and the suffocating limits imposed by the urgency procedure, even though for the reasons we stated that the government could have avoided it, we are voting in favour of the bill. We will state'residents' in the resolution of Articles 17, 22, 24, 27, 28, 31 to 34 and 41. Our vote here makes the point that, despite the positive improvements that have been made, there are still considerable gaps in protection or divergences from the directive, which should be covered in the future. We are voting against the following articles, in order to state our strongest opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u173	You'll see that in the vote, Mr. Catrugale, that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u174	But I want to explain why.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u175	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u176	We are voting against Rule 12 because, although the Minister had been invited by Mr Kastanidis to extend the blockades concerning the President of the Authority with the same logic as that imposed in the case of the Competition Committee, this was not the case. I think it goes without saying that, for reasons of good legal humiliation, it should be the same, at least in terms of their basis, to all the authorities, regardless of whether they are constitutionally anticipated or not, because it is a distinct thing to choose from the essential, that is, the formal emblem, which is, in fact, unacceptable, which does not even allow us to proceed with this process. In Article 25 we shall vote against. There is an improvement, which provides that private operators can - added at the request of a public authority - process personal data for reasons of national or public security. We consider that only transfer would be constitutionally tolerated. We believe that it is unconstitutional to allow for responsibilities relating to the core of the exercise of public power, which is relevant to public policy or security, to allow private bodies to process. We are also voting against Articles 46 and 49 because we believe that the concept of consensus should have more protectionist content for the subject of personal data. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, too. We will close the debate on the bill with the relevant Minister of Justice, Mr Chiara.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are at the end of the debate on a very important legislative initiative. And, of course, this debate may have had the characteristics of an urgent bill, but I will agree with the very long and very serious discussion with the rapporteur who has just arrived at the Step rapporteur of the Officerial Response. It is an issue for me that there are many unanswered questions, which obviously have their basis in the unknowing of the whole story about this bill. Most of the colleagues probably think that the government suddenly decided to legislate on the protection of personal data and the incorporation of a European directive simply because Greece is indicted, is referred to the European Court of Justice and is certainly threatened with a very high fine. That is not the case, because, if we need to look at the history of attempted legalisation of this bill, it is certain that we will find a serious weakness that comes from the period of the previous government. However, I will not say that it is because of the lack of political will, but of the lack of agreement, which is the result of the fact that almost three legislators have passed through several different stages, so that they may not end up in the end. So where is today's reality? First of all, in the specific undeniable need, which I think was more or less expressed by all the wings. The JRC has a different view, which I respect. I disagree, but I will not go into any reasonable discussion about this. However, I think that the need to incorporate, in principle, the directive, as was actually heard by all the parties, was more than necessary, in some way, as everyone has said. Ladies and gentlemen, do you not realize that by incorporating a directive without regulation we would have a great deal of contradiction in terms of concepts? You do not know that the concepts of the regulation must be consistent with the concepts of the directive, because that is the only way we are talking about correct legislation? After all, it is the practice that most European countries have adopted to legislate on the protection of personal data. That's the reality. But, on the other hand, I heard some people say that we had to keep Law 2472/1997 as a basic legislative framework and incorporate the directive to cover ourselves, since there is compatibility between one framework and the other. I think that those who at least are - and are several of the colleagues - of high-profile scientists in legal science will understand that we are talking about a self-evident reality, which we know about. It's completely different. The legislative framework of 2472/1997 cannot be combined with the current Community directive of 2016. So that kind of conversation couldn't exist. So let's actually go, Mr. Janakopoulos. We arrived at the no further and the no longer is described by the fact that the first warning came on 26 July, as you were right to say, but it comes from the fact that there is a correspondence between us, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in order to see what is at issue, what has happened and how our country must protect its credibility, its dignity, its national interests and, of course, we will see further below that we must at last have a regulation on the protection of personal data. The first document, which I shall submit in the Minutes, is the actual correspondence, which in fact informs us that from the College of Commissioners' meeting, the impossibility of transposing Directive 2016/680 is now putting the committee, namely the College of Commissioners, to propose to the court that a penalty of EUR 22,169,70 be imposed on each day of the infringement until compliance, as well as the flat-rate amount of EUR 5,287,5 for each day from the adoption of the first sentence until the adoption of the decision in this action, with a minimum lump sum of EUR 1,300 000. I would like to point out here that for at least those who know European practice as a whole - I will not tell you 100%, but the overwhelming majority - of the proposals from the College of Commissioners is adopted by the European Court of Justice. So we are not talking about something that would have been negotiated, but about something that would ultimately be imposed as a penalty in our country. So until the second court was finalised, we would actually have had the amount of EUR 5,287 per day plus EUR 1,300 000. If we counted on it on 5 May 2018, which should have been integrated into this European directive in Greek law, we are talking today about going beyond EUR 2,500,000 plus that. And if, of course, we had come to the trial of the second court, EUR 5 287, which we are talking about, it would not be EUR 5,287, but EUR 22,169. Obviously there is no sense in the complaints made by some colleagues who even heard in the Conference of Presidents 'we have reached here and should pay a little further.' This debate is not serious, and I think you all understand it. And I say this because I have asked for the responsibility and consent of the political parties for a matter which does not have the political will or if you want a more general political position of the government, but it has the real need, on the one hand, to restore the image of our country to the European family, and on the other hand, there is a law, a regulation with an integrated directive, which is about the real protection of personal data. Isn't that the point? We are currently with an obsolete law of 1997, which, of course, was an excellent law, Mr Kamine, when it was passed, but we are talking about twenty-one years later. We are talking about the fourth industrial revolution. We're talking about past the age of information, and we're in the era of digitisation. It is a completely different reality, with other data, with other needs, with a completely, if you want, description of the specific risks that may be described by the lack of a specific framework for the protection of personal data. That is why I would first like to welcome today's debate. It was an exercise for the Greek Parliament, and I say it despite the fact that, of course, I understand the political controversy that might have been created and the reason that there was an amendment. The amendment, you know, at least in my own logic, would not be acceptable if it did not concern such an important issue, which concerns both the Greek economy and all Greek citizens, the Greek society. We know that at least in plenary sessions and in plenary debates of the Greek Parliament, which relate either to transnational agreements or to incorporation of directives or, of course, to incorporation of regulations, the practice of the amendments is obviously a practice that we must abandon as soon as possible. That's the reality, and we all know it. And I would say that this is the first time after a long time - I am one of the old Members - that I see a serious debate ending in the Greek Parliament's plenary with a large majority of the parties at least recognising that the effort being made is in the right direction, of course, with all the objections and all the issues. Yeah, if you're asking me if I'm happy because the first bill I bring from the Justice Department is in the form of an emergency, I'm telling you I'm not. But tell me how otherwise we could conclude a legislative initiative that would get us out of a dead end. And the fact that some stayed in my comment earlier, in fact by thanking my colleagues for working nights - even on the day of the Fifteen - is that at least in the last thirty days there has been a superhuman effort from all of us and to understand a highly technical bill with many issues and to be able to incorporate a large part of the comments made by the parties, from all those involved in the consultation, but also, of course, to try to conclude, finally, presenting to the plenary of the Greek Parliament - so the next day in Greek society - a bill that has a real value. Two hundred and fifty comments were made in the consultation, which are regarded as too much for a bill, and most of these were incorporated with the comments we thought could be incorporated without altering the substance of the bill. We brought ninety legislative improvements, Mr. Villardos, which are not - look out! - as you said "species or phrases", are words or phrases that change the whole meaning of most articles. And we tried to respect the parties' views as well. I repeat that it has never been adopted that it is a piece of legislation which concerns the government, in the way in which the government sees a number of crucial policy issues. It is a piece of legislation aimed at protecting personal data and restores the image of our country. But, besides, do you know what got me surprised? Instead of talking about all of this, which to a large extent has been dealt with, so that we have the best possible - in my view - at the end of the debate, unfortunately, some have focused on issues that actually existed before the finalisation of the draft law. And another thing I would like to mention is this: is it really not of interest to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the protection of minors is at last being regulated? It is more obvious that one of the most basic provisions of this bill is that under the age of 15 the parent needs consent. And children cannot enter into this adventure of the great risks that their internet presence can pose, with all these well-known phenomena and the well-known events that they have dealt with and public opinion, but they also create a huge concern. This bill responds to too many issues. It responds to issues relating to the protection of personal data. It responds to issues relating to the real development of the economy. In the new era, where newly-born, truly original, companies in fact of the electronic space, the Internet, they must comply with safety rules cannot be achieved unless we have actually been able to legislate in the best possible way. I think it was a great opportunity to prove that with a serious approach and with a serious debate, at least in matters that go beyond any political approach that each party can have, we could at least agree on key issues here, but also in future time. The answers are available for all issues. Most of the points raised by honourable Members are actually answered by the fact that the regulation itself actually imposes a specific wording on most of these articles. That's the reality. If we look for this more than an attempt to see if we have indeed moved in the right direction, I assure you that you will see that the greatest and best possible effort has been made. I think all the problems have been solved? Oh, no. I'm telling you in advance. hundreds have come to my attention, not to mention thousands of different cases that have to be dealt with in a more general attempt to approach a piece of legislation. However, the truth is that if we ask to deal with all the problems through a piece of legislation that we have to bring and complete in a short time, it will obviously not work in the area of logic, but in the area of utopia, and that is the truth. That is why I asked you in the debate on the relevant parliamentary committee to make all the comments, all the points you have made, all the legislative improvements that you have, so that together we can formulate the best draft law on this issue. I would like to thank the party rapporteurs, Mr Kotsiras, who very specifically illustrated the intention of the government, at least on the government side, Mr Katrugalos, who, in a very constructive debate and cooperation, managed to find many common points in order to make it seem that we may have political disagreements, but at least on some issues we can agree, trying for the best, Mrs Giannakopoulou, who, in many private debates, has been able in a very specific way to show me that we had to look at specific issues and address them, so that there is no problem in order to do as well, Mrs Manolakou, of course, despite the disagreement that is based on a more general conviction of the Communist Party, Mr Villardo, to whom I would say that you would see it more widely and reach a total vote in favour of the bill, not only on the part of the Communist Party, but also on the Committee's very much-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-le-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de- I think that the area of the Ministry of Justice - and I say it in my first speech, as Minister of Justice, for a bill - is being offered for wider political consensus. If we do want to send a message to the Greek society that we are ready and confronted with pathogens of the past, but above all to make choices as a political system that will help us, creating a truly stable institutional entity, especially in the field of justice, we will prove in the best way possible to the Greek citizens that we may have political disagreements, but at least for the self-evident ones we can all agree and move forward together. The effort of the government at this difficult time - I will accept all that you have said about the rapid pace, about the fact that there was no time and all of this - is in fact aimed at restoring the institutional dimension of justice and responding to the problems that we demanded as quickly as possible, but above all, at sending a comprehensive message to the Greek citizens that we can all turn a page, serving them in the best possible way. I could talk about much longer, but I understand that the time of the urgent bill limits me even. With these considerations I would like to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour at least at the very beginning of this bill, thus showing that we can address them with a substance and with a feeling that the Greek political system can consent, agree on the goodness of the Greek citizens and on the good of the Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, too. I wish all the bills would go through with this climate. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendment of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice is finalised: ‘Personal Data Protection Authority, Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and incorporation into national legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u183	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u184	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u186	The draft law of the Ministry of Justice was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. We are entering the vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u190	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u191	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u192	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u193	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u196	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u197	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u198	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u200	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u204	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u205	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u207	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u211	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u212	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u214	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u218	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u219	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u221	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u225	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u226	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u228	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u232	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u233	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u235	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u239	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u240	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u242	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u246	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u247	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u249	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 10 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u252	Here you go. Mr President, I would like it to be noted in the Minutes that we disagree with paragraph 5.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u253	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u254	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u255	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u256	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u260	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u261	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u262	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u263	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u265	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u268	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u269	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u270	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u274	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u275	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u276	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u277	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u281	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u282	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u283	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u284	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 15 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u288	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u289	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u290	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u291	Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 16 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u295	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u296	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u297	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u298	Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u302	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u303	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u305	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u309	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u310	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u312	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u316	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u317	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u319	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u323	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u324	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u326	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 21 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u330	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u332	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u333	Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 22 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u335	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u339	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u340	Article 22 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u346	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u347	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u351	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u352	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u353	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u354	Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u356	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u357	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u358	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u359	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u361	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u365	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u367	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u368	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u371	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u372	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u373	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u375	Article 27 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u377	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u378	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u379	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u381	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u382	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept Rule 29, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u385	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u386	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u388	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u389	Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 30 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u395	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u396	Article 30 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u398	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u399	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u400	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u402	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u403	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u405	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u406	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u407	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u410	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u413	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u415	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u417	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u419	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u420	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u421	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u422	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u423	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u424	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u428	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u430	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u431	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u437	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u438	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u442	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u443	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u445	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u452	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u457	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u459	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u463	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u464	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u465	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u466	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 41 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u468	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u469	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u470	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u471	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u472	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u473	Article 41 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 42 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u477	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u479	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u480	Article 42 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u484	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u487	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u491	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u494	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u501	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u505	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u508	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u515	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u522	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u529	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u536	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u543	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u550	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u554	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u557	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u561	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u562	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u564	Article 54 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u568	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u571	Article 55 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u575	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u578	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u582	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u585	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u589	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u592	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u596	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u599	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u603	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u606	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u610	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u613	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u617	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u620	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u624	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u627	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u631	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u634	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u638	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u641	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u645	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u648	Article 66 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u652	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u655	Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u661	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u662	Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u666	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u669	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u673	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u674	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u676	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u680	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u683	Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 72 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u687	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u690	Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u694	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u695	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u697	Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u701	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u704	Article 74 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 75 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u708	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u711	Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u715	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u718	Article 76 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 77 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u722	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u724	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u725	Article 77 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 78 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u729	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u731	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u732	Article 78 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 79 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u736	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u739	Article 79 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 80 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u746	Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u753	Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 82 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u759	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u760	Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 83 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u764	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u765	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u766	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u767	Article 83 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 84 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u771	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u772	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u773	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u774	Article 84 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 85 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u776	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u777	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u778	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u779	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u780	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u781	Article 85 was therefore accepted as majority. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 30 and a special number one as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u782	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u785	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u787	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u788	The amendment, under a general number 30 and a special 1, has therefore been accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. We shall now proceed to the vote of the President-in-Office. Does the House agree to the hotel article, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u792	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u794	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u795	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Personal Data Protection Authority, implementing measures of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and incorporation into national legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority on the principle and on the articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u796	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u798	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u799	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u800	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u802	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Personal Data Protection Authority, implementing measures of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and incorporation into national law of Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u803	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u804	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-26-S1-commons.u805	It is with the consent of the House that the sitting is closed. Time 18.12 ́.
