ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 5]] [[CHANGES OF PAGE]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Incorporation of Directive 2016/343 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016 amending Council Regulation (EC) No 3251/2004 in accordance with Council Decision 2002/584/JHA of 13 June 2002, as amended by Council Decision 2009/299/JHA of 26 February 2009, IV) Provisions relating to the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 on the implementation of enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor, V) Provisions relating to the functioning and effectiveness of the judiciary and other provisions, VI. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 18 February 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. The amendments, from before me, are three ministerial and five MEPs. The committee has spoken, if I remember correctly, four or five colleagues. A similar figure usually speaks in plenary. So, for the process, I think we agree unanimously. Before I give the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur, I would like to announce that by letter from the Prime Minister to the President of Parliament, on the subject of 'Governmental change', it is known to the House that the resignations submitted by Alexios Tsipras of Paul from the position of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, George Katrougalos of Stelios - Panagiotis from the position of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Catherine Notopoulou of Panagiotis were accepted from the position of the Minister of Interior, Athanasios Eliopoulos of Constantine from the position of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and have been exempted from their duties. By 23/18-2-2018 Presidential Decree, published in FEK 28/18-2-2018, issue Ioannis, George Katrougalos of Stelios - Panagiotis at the place of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ithanasia Anagnostopoulou at the place of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Eleftheria Hadjigeorgiou of Ioannis at the place of Deputy Minister of Interior, Konstantinos Barkas of the Theophanis, in the place of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Athanasios Morasios, Christos at the place of the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport... [[Applause - laughers from the ward of the Democratic Alliance]] ...and Angel Tolkas of Charalambous in the place of the Deputy Minister of Migration Policy. [[Applause - laughers from the ward of the Democratic Alliance]] The above letter reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u2	On behalf of the Bureau and colleagues, we express our condolences to Mr Maki Voridis, who said goodbye to his father yesterday. Mr. Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by pointing out the important contribution made by this draft law to the institutional redeployment, which is required in the State after the Memorandum years, to the reduction of rights and economic resources. It is a common place that citizens' confidence in the institutions in previous years has been shaken - and rightly so - and the adventure of budgetary adjustment...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Saraciotis, I'm sorry. Any colleague who wants to register will be registered. The system has been opened and it will remain open until Mr. Panayotopoulos talks. Thank you. Go on, Mr. Saraciotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u5	...and the adventure of fiscal adjustment left its mark in the social state. Our primary goal is to regain this confidence. This legislative initiative, therefore, both on the part of the ratification of European directives and on the part of the changes in the justice and penitentiary policy of the country, is a foundation for democracy and the principle of equal treatment for all citizens. In view of these priorities and taking into account the comments made by the institutions, let me refer to the individual chapters. Under Chapter I, the supreme courts of the country - the Supreme Special Court, the Marios Ice, the Council of State and the Court of Auditors - gain the opportunity to submit requests, opinions to the European Court of Justice, on rights and freedoms arising from and protected by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. Such requests shall be of an optional nature and shall be made either automatically by the court or by the parties. The detailed description of the procedure for submitting and issuing opinions is contained in Chapter I. The ratification of the ECHR Protocol 16 creates a protectionist umbrella on the rights and opportunities of all citizens, without, of course, affecting the independence of Greek justice. Chapter B also concerns the incorporation of a European directive on the rights of suspects, accused persons and convicted persons. In particular, procedural guarantees shall be provided to those citizens within the framework of the European Arrest Warrant. It is necessary to incorporate forecasts in the light of a pan-European understanding, demonstration of reciprocity and respect for the European acquis. It is an important legislative contribution that those persons who are required to account for or to carry out a sentence will now have the right to bring an action for damages in the event that they consider that the presumption of their innocence has been infringed. At the same time, the burden of proof is transferred to the Judges and the right to silence and not self-determination is guaranteed. Furthermore, Chapter III provides for the obligation of the prosecutor issuing the European Arrest Warrant to forward to the executing authority the matters of decision which imposes a penalty or a security measure depriving the defendant of his freedom, provided that it has not been served. A common Union-wide basis for refusal of recognition of judgments given in proceedings shall be ensured through the instrument of the chapter in question in which the defendant did not attend in person. Chapter IV concerns the European Public Prosecutor's most important institution, which has already started in the European Union, and we are now in a phase of accelerating its operation with the participation of our country in the institution to upgrade the role of the public prosecutor. By means of the individual articles of the chapter, the framework for cooperation and collection of the European Public Prosecutor and the National Prosecutor shall be fully clarified. In addition, the obligation of civil servants, officials and organisations, including the independent authorities, to provide the European Delegated Prosecutor with any information requested and any additional assistance. Let me now come to the last two chapters, which are the most indicative of all what I mentioned at the outset about the overall philosophy of government policy. In addition to the necessary incorporation of European directives, legislative initiatives are taken aimed at a definitive transition to the memorial era by healing the wounds caused. The memorial suffering must be taught for all of us. The underfunding of justice, the discount on the institutions, the inability to protect our weak fellow citizens, the circumvention of the professional rights of legal persons and the unreasonable persecution of journalists without criteria and conditions have been reflected in the consciousness of citizens as signs of the absence of democracy and in particular of its last refuge, of impartial and socially sensitive justice. In this light, Chapter V aims to increase the effectiveness and improve the functioning of the courts and, in general, justice. It is foreseen to refer back the rules of the Internal Service of the Courts, for which the Association of Administrative Judges has expressed a positive opinion, stressing that the plenary session of the Supreme Court in question will no longer have the power to complete, amend or annul a Rules of Procedure except for the right to refer it back to the court or the prosecutor concerned in order to adjust it. There is also an eight-year increase in the positions of judges, while according to the requirements of the times there is the need for a new structure for the Financial Prosecutor and the Prosecutor of Corruption. With regard to the first, scientific staff may now be seconded when the financial prosecutor is called upon to deal with specific know-how issues. With regard to the Prosecutor of Corruption, the possibility of transferring or posting police officers is granted. However, perhaps the most important and more pro-social provision concerns the extension of the legal aid institution to the cases of consensual divorces before a notary. They shall also cover standing requests from the country's lawyers for the issue of the documents and the payment of insurance contributions in the case of legal aid. It is also indicative of the words of the president of the plenary of the Bar Association and the president of the Athens Bar Association that this bill transfers the time of extradition not in the time of a judicial act, but in the time of payment of the claim, so it is no longer necessary for the lawyer to prefinance the case in his pocket. In this way, a distortion is resolved which has afflicted thousands of lawyers. At the same time, the economic and administrative independence of the lawyers is guaranteed, a provision which strengthens institutions with traditional reference to democracy and the defence of institutions. Finally, I would like to refer to the amendment of Article 417 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the activation of the self-determination procedure in the offences of exaltation, defamation and slander. The amendment obviously concerns all citizens, but, as you know, it was a constant request from the U.S.S.S.S.S.A., as dozens of journalists fell victim to an industry of lawsuits in previous years, which were often filed on Friday nights, so that the journalist can be kept three days and thus be self-limited and directed by some. It was purely to circumvent the freedom of the press without that meaning that we are now guided by total immunity. Control will continue to exist, but not by self-defence, which often moves unjustly. Finally, initiatives to improve aspects of the country's penitentiary policy are being taken on Chapter F. Convicts who provide public works as an alternative to the creation of their sentence will now have insurance cover in the event of accidents. Furthermore, philosophy in the equation of days of work and days of sentence is consolidated, as at the moment there is the paradox of every rural prison in the country having its own measurement system. It is time to change and I think it is yet another legitimate arrangement. Finally, an initiative is also taken for legal services, with the subsidiary staff of the National Health System now being able to provide the subsidiary's services. Thus, we manage gaps and shortcomings which have led to city-to-town city movements and to significant malfunctions. Ladies and gentlemen, the country has left behind a difficult historic period and now looks ahead to implementing the necessary reforms. The fiscal adjustment of the previous years must give its place in the institutional adjustment by means of the requirements of equality, equality and equality through the acquis communautaire. On this basis, safeguarding the role of justice as a protector of the poor and weak is a precondition for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u6	Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, before I begin, I would like to ask a question: will I be able to put myself in the first place and with some comments on articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u8	We said it goes "packet". The debate is taking place in principle, on the articles and amendments. And because I see that time is enough, but I do not see many colleagues being written, you will have the rapporteurs and a small second-guess, if you wish, towards the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, I would just like to say something about the amendments. The rest I'll cover now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, in an import trial, yesterday Mr Paulakis recorded a telephone conversation with the central banker of the country without the consent of the central banker of the country and then made it public. According to Article 370a of the Criminal Code, it has committed a malicious act, which, of course, is not covered by any parliamentary immunity, since there is no parliamentary immunity to self-determination and also because the rather confessed act, for which it does the same speech, is obviously, as you can see, that it has been committed in or around the context of its duties. No one was taken. No one was moved by any prosecutor in the country, no one considered it necessary to do anything. Justice is watching awkward or uncomfortable, but it is watching. And, of course, no response from the government that is obviously identical and fully covering the actions of its chosen official. I would like to put in the Minutes the article 370A of the Criminal Code to see what exactly this act is and what legal consequences it is. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the bill is concerned: The bill we are discussing, like about all the laws of the Ministry of Justice, is relatively large, quite technical, and is mainly governed by two axes. The first is concerned with the transposition of four legislative texts into national law, the consolidation of Protocol No 3. 16, the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, i.e. the European Convention on Human Rights, Chapter I, the first four Articles. Secondly, the incorporation of a directive of 2016/343 of the European Parliament to strengthen the presumption of innocence, perhaps the most interesting in terms of developing a legal debate on the draft law, Chapter II, Articles 5 to 10. Thirdly, compliance with national legislation by means of a Council Framework Decision on the European Arrest Warrant, Chapter III, Articles 11 to 15 and Fourth, the application of provisions of the European Union Regulation 2017/1939 and of the Council on the strengthening of the European Prosecutor, in the context of Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty of Lisbon, talking about cooperation between Member States in criminal matters, the creation and functioning of Eurojust, the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and orders, the establishment of a European Prosecutor to combat crimes affecting the financial interests of the European Union. This is Chapter IV, Articles 16 to 21. The second axis is now about the introduction of many scattered and various different objects, regulating different objects, provisions on the functioning of justice and the penitentiary system. The first chapter of the Second Axis on Justice Effectiveness is Chapter V, Articles 22 to 35 and the second chapter of the Second Axis on the Penitentiary System covers Chapter F of the Bill, Articles 36 to 39. Look, the first comment is that - we have said it on several occasions - there is a problem with regard to the structure, but more has to do with the quality of the legislative work and the legislative process. We believe - and we have said this before - that combining the introduction of important texts of European legislation, directives, regulations, decisions - framework and conventions with regard to the adoption of various provisions on the functioning of justice is a problem. First of all, it creates an inconvenience at the outset in terms of positions and votes with regard to opposition parties. We could vote, be positive in favour of a European text, as it is the New Democracy's constant tactic, but we cannot do it, because we disagree on some points of content. That is to say, either we agree with one text and have some objections to the other or we disagree on the contents of several of the scattered provisions on the functioning of justice. The same was done when the Istanbul Convention against Violence against Women came into force. It came from the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Justice to vote together with all the other provisions, and this combination of the two categories of legislation, namely the European text on the one hand and other provisions on the other, has established our final negative attitude. But let us, in essence, say a few words about the basic, if you like, legislative text and the most interesting legal analysis, that is to strengthen the presumption of innocence and the directive that introduces it. I would like to remind you that the presumption of innocence has been explicitly introduced by the revolutionary Constitution of Troika. At the moment there is no constitutional provision or provision by the joint legislator in national law on the presumption of innocence. That's pretty interesting. Then, after the revolution, the legislators had predicted, but at the moment there is nothing more specific. It is expressly recognised by European constitutions, such as Italy, Portugal and Cyprus, and of course Article 6(2) of the European Convention on Human Rights. The presumption of innocence is not relevant to the existence or otherwise of any evidence against the defendant, but fully protects the defendant until his guilt has been identified. So until someone is convicted, until someone is guilty, he is presumed innocent. That is the substance in the wording of the presumption. This is where every Greek state official is required to respect the presumption of innocence and therefore not to make public assessment statements on ongoing criminal matters. They would have a lot to learn from several members of the government from the reinforcement and implementation of this directive on the presumption of innocence. They should be subjected to intensive care - I had also told the committee - by the leadership of the Ministry of Justice, because the offenders are not so much the judges, who use some assessment in an ongoing criminal case, but governmental factors everywhere. I would remind you of the Richard case, where the Prime Minister here made his statement from the Step of the House - please! - and the statements made by half the Government on the 'NOVARTIS' case. Therefore, infringement of the presumption of innocence is equivalent to a government attempt to manipulate criminal judges. The provisions which caused the most debate in the Committees were two. Article 7 on the right to bring an action for damages against what he feels is insulting his presumption of innocence and the provisions of Article 8 concerning the burden of proof. Look, it has been decided by the European Court of Human Rights that the payment of compensation is not an adequate means of treatment to the victims of their presumption of innocence. It's the Costa case against Greece. Furthermore, it can be said that the procedure for actions for damages to the Greek civil courts, provided for in Article 7, on the one hand, will be time-consuming and, on the other hand, introduced by Articles 105 and 106 of the Introductory Law of the Civil Code and, therefore, will ultimately compensate the State and not the responsible official for attacking the presumption of innocence. It's another distortion. If the 57 of the Civil Code was followed on the insult of personality, then the responsible person or rather the person liable for payment of compensation would be precisely that official who, in his statements, has offended the presumption of innocence of the perpetrator. This is different, and the way in which the action for damages is introduced ultimately makes it difficult for the person concerned directly to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights. By Law 3904/2010, the Greek legal system has protected the presumption of innocence in a specific article, which amends Article 171 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to include in the grounds of invalidity and the exercise of the rights conferred on the defendant and by the European Convention for Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, namely the provisions relating to the presumption of innocence. Given that the actual restoration is the absolute nullity of the procedure, there is also the view that the proposal that the presumption of innocence should be explicitly included by political persons in the grounds for nullity of the criminal proceedings. It is Article 171(1)(d) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Otherwise, if this is not the case, the protection of the presumption of innocence is ultimately incomplete and defective and government officials, who will recur, for the purpose of collecting political impressions, in the context of the political game with unfair - I would say - terms will carry out evaluation crises, targeting political opponents, blatantly insulting this very presumption of innocence that this directive comes to strengthen. With regard to Article 8, on the burden of proof, first of all, we have said that in our criminal system there is no burden of proof in one of the two factors in the trial. They're not the parties to the civil trial here in the criminal courts. The spokesman of the Association of Prosecutors expressed his concern at this point. In particular, he said that Halou's amusements could be opened by this provision, where the defendant is not required to prove any facts alleged, but that obligation falls within the court or the prosecutor's authority. This could lead to postponements of trials to produce stronger evidence - deferment of helmets, as we say by those who are involved in criminal justice - even to a ground for appealing to court if this condition that I have told you is not met. I mentioned one example to the court that it does not owe for it, which is accused, that it has paid 10 days ago, even though in the evidence of the case-file there is at the same time the relevant statement of debt or the payment of part-time, in any event, of the remaining debt from the document of the DU. The court must take cash into account the defendant's true claim that he does not owe. And despite the fact that there is a public document with all the evidence that this implies, it must go to postpon in order to investigate whether the prosecutor's claims are correct. This will lead to a distortion, to a paralysing tactic that will make it even more difficult for the smooth development, speedy processing of the criminal trial. This is the distorting application of the provisions that strengthen the presumption of innocence. I would like to speed up some other provisions, because time is pushing, in which we have identified some problems. I come to Chapter IV on the application of regulation provisions and on the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor. Article 18 sets out the qualifications for the selection of a candidate for the post of the Greek European Public Prosecutor. Here, the committee has raised the question of limiting the applicant tank with suspicion of an exceptional restriction, so that there are some photographic provisions describing the person who meets these qualifications that the text places, especially the provision for pre-services in MEA, OLAF and Eurojust, in these international services. Of course, it is important to have these qualifications and undeniably the applicant, in any case, should have them. We believe, however, that this excessive restriction creates some suspicion. I also reiterate the concern expressed by the Association of Judges to exclude judicial officers from the selection of the candidate for the position of the Greek European Public Prosecutor. Only one prosecutor can be a candidate. That's kind of problematic. From there on, given that there are several provisions, I will focus on some provisions, especially as regards the administration of justice. I come to Article 28 for legal aid for low-income citizens. The first comment is that applications for legal aid have been launched lately. We had five hundred and fifty one applications in 2014, while in 2017 we had seven thousand eight hundred seventy applications. The reason is that, on the one hand, the cost of recourse to justice has increased and, on the other, that there is much greater, I would say, an economic weakness for the ordinary citizen to resort to justice. It has played its part here, and the policy of poverty, which here comes to be satisfied with the specific part of recourse to justice, with an aid in order to make this possible. The problem with legal aid at the moment, however, for those exercising their profession, is the huge delays in the liquidation and payment of compensation to lawyers. The reason is that the FVC, the entity carrying out the liquidation, usually calls for the cleansed decision, which is often delayed over the whole period. In the committee we have proposed that the lawyer should be given a certificate of representation to the trial by the President of the court which is to be sent immediately to the FTLR, along with the relevant tax document, so that the lawyer's remuneration can be cleared more quickly and that, in the end, the institution will be strengthened, since the lawyer will have an incentive and not an incentive to provide legal aid, but the citizen will therefore have better access to justice and, in particular, to criminal law in the capacity of the defendant. This strengthens its rights in substance, and the institution is finally being strengthened. Regarding Article 30 ‘Laws on the Code of Lawyers’, as shown in the debate, the charge of EUR 0,5 per note issued appeared to many a bit excessive. In fact, it is another tax burden on a sector that has already been excessively taxed. I would remind you that until first the cost was EUR 5.5 per lawyer per year and not EUR 0,5 per issue. We expect to see if we have any news of any other attitude that will be formulated by the Ministry's political leadership. We understand the need to maintain the portal of the House of Lawyers, but from there on we believe that this is done in exchange for an excessive financial burden on the lawyer. From there on, in relation to paragraphs 2 and 3, we have accepted them, as Article 30(2) regulates the working regime...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Panayotopoulos, slowly turn it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u13	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'd like your tolerance for thirty seconds. And in paragraph 3 of Article 96 of the Code of Lawyers, we consider that the presidential decree of approval of the legal associations body provides the relevant guarantees of transparency for the proper functioning of the legal associations. The problem is that of Article 31 because it cannot be headed by a civil servant without a degree in law, as it opens the way for the complete weakening of the institution of the mortgages and the secondment of workers from the structure and supervision of judicial authority and its origin to executive structures, in accordance with the ‘COLOGY S.A.’. This is a greater issue that will ultimately be judged by the plenary session of the Council of State. A comment on Article 33. Abolition of the self-defense in the press crimes committed. Here is the central question of avoiding the arrest and arrest of the alleged person as a perpetrator, possibly due to an act of punishment, of retribution of those who consider them to be affected, insulted, slandered, etc. If, therefore, this is not the case - which, as the provision says, is not the case - then I am sorry, but I do not see where the Ministry's improved disposal is, so as to prevent journalists from being accused, allegedly committed the offence of slandering defamation by the press, etc. The interests must be weighed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Panayotopoulos, I can't leave you any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u15	I shall conclude, Mr President. In my dentistry, I'm going to place myself on two other articles. In conclusion, this is a draft law with elements that are in the right direction and with other provisions with which we disagree. Our contribution to the debate was made more to improve these provisions, with a constructive aim, namely, rather than a sterile opposition. We will vote against in principle because we do not agree with the structure of these bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Panagiotopoulos, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u17	Some European texts, which we have in a positive way, cannot be combined with the others. We will vote positively on specific articles, on some specific articles in the bill. Thank you for your tolerance too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u18	Your colleagues. We proceed with the special speaker from the Democratic Reconciliation Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou. Let me inform you that the list is closed. Another colleague cannot be registered. Here you go, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Inevitably, Minister, I have to start with the day's issue and unfortunately the day's issue is not the draft law that you are proposing. The day's theme is the incomprehensible for a Parliamentary Republic of your fellow Members to illegally record and move, too, illegally intercepted telephone conversations with the central banker, to move them into the well-known media of the Great Maximos. In what country, Minister, would such a symbolism and a felony act of an illegal nature, as described in Article 370a of the Criminal Code, have been made, but also an act of extremely anti-institutional to political and parliamentary morals, without any immediate disapproval on your part, on the part of the Minister of Justice? As we have arrived at noon, I would say that since the morning I would have been waiting for the prosecutor of the Ice Bay, who is so alert every time, to have intervened and intervened independently if Mr Stournaras had spoken or not of a brutal institutional diversion and of an unprecedented energy. The question, Minister, is, unfortunately, that, with such illegal acts, with anti-parliamentary behaviour only in Orban and Maduro regimes, the central banker may be threatened and blackmailed by a minister, six and a half years old, who, despite his constant pussy behaviours, the slandering attacks on opponents' politicians, the slandering attacks on journalists, even on the dead by attacking their memory, such as the late Vassilis Beskeni, enjoys, Minister, systematically, the favor of the Prime Minister's court, the protection of the party mechanism. I read an announcement from SYRIZA yesterday and I was ashamed. He hides behind his government's immunity, otherwise shameful under Article 86 of the Constitution. I would remind you that he is the Minister: 'My own and all of you.' He is the Minister: 'I have you'. I would remind you, Minister, that after such threats of slandering and defamation, they always come to the Committee on Ethics, and what they ask each time is to examine whether his case falls under the immunity given to him by the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers, the otherwise disgraceful Article 86. There is one other thing, which concerns Parliament, the government, the Members of Parliament, it concerns democracy, it concerns how we understand policy. Today remains the minister of the government's luben characteristics. It remains by this government, which rewards and rewards executives in vulgar styles, supposedly popular, supposedly uncontrolled, supposedly with an angry little advanced, supposedly unparalleled, to maintain conscious behavior of political trabourism. I'm really telling you that on behalf of the Minister of Justice, not of another Minister, I expect a statement that says it disapproves such behaviour. From that point on, justice should do its job. From there on justice should have done her job with Ms. Thanos, who is so sensitive in a very long order... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen. She's so sensitive to such behaviours when we see that there's got to be an appeal order here to investigate the case. I see something else. The panic of this government is now uncontrolled. Has it reached points of anti-parliamentary deprivation, with former ministers memorizing each other and using sub-world words and accusations - does that not bother us? - with former Minister of State to file a complaint and to say that he has been blackmailed on several occasions and in a vulgar manner by another Minister of Government. And it wasn't any case of Ministers, it was the Minister of National Defence with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. And you don't think all this is going to cross the country internationally? Do you think these behaviours are within what we call the 'European political acquis'? No, it's not, and it shouldn't be, and we shouldn't tolerate it. We also have other ministers who are preducting street journalists who are handling products of illegal telephone records, proving that in this government scheme political decline and parliamentary humiliation are not at the bottom. It's a political brush. And if we don't get him out of political life, then he who takes advantage of the extremities is the negligents of democracy, is the anti-systemic, anti-parliamentary feeling that is constantly growing from such behaviours, from the impression that the citizen can have that "all themselves are" and avert his gaze from the political system. I put forward a proposal, Minister, and, if you are kind, listen to me. The answer on your part must be immediate, otherwise politically what I understand is that you are deliberately or unintentionally involved in covering a scandal that has all the shades of rot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u20	Is the Minister in charge of doing such things?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u21	Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u22	Please calm down. Mr. Papatheodorou, I would like to point out that half the year you've wasted him out of the bill. Your right, of course, but I would point it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President, for pointing out. I know. After all, I've said it from the beginning that the day's matter is different. I would therefore say that, in my view, if this behaviour is not rejected, which is blatantly violating the parliamentary rules, the rules of the Government, the Republic, then you have been involved - unintentionally or voluntarily - in the cover of a scandal that has all the shades of shades of the SYRIZA's political behaviour for the last four years. These are dangerous things for democracy, and no one has the right to deal with the decadent cynicism with which Mr Tsipras treats Parliament and the citizens. We therefore expect an institutional response, a disapproval and from there on justice to do its job. Since the President has been kind enough to point out that I must go to the bill as well, Protocol 16 is indeed a necessary regulatory addition to the ECHR, which has emerged through the relevant consultation procedures of the Council of Europe on the future of the European Court of Human Rights. An increased role of the European Court of Justice is laid down as regards questions of principle in the interpretation and application of the ECHR, at the request of a national court and, above all, a supreme court. It therefore upgrades the role of the European Court of Justice as it expands its advisory competence, strengthens dialogue and interaction between national courts and the European Court of Justice and facilitates the application of ECHR provisions by national courts. Finally, it aims at the uniform application of the European Convention on Human Rights by States - parties to the Convention and national courts through reasoned opinions. In this sense, it is a sound and necessary initiative that must be supported in our view. The arrangements for adapting Greek legislation to the 16th protocol of the ECHR on the appointment of supreme courts, a procedure for requesting opinion and so on are also self-evident. In Chapter II on minimum procedural protection under the European Arrest Warrant and the presumption of innocence, the question is to strengthen the principle of mutual recognition and trust between Member States to ensure procedural rights and guarantees in the implementation of the European Arrest Warrant. This framework, as a minimum framework, is necessary for the rights of the arrested one, the one being held with a European arrest warrant. Already, from 2014, provisions on rights to interpretation and translation and on the right to information in criminal matters have been passed and already in 2007 there have been arrangements on the right of access to a lawyer and communication of the defendant with third persons. Directive 2016/343 complements this framework of measures on fair trial and establishing common guarantees for the presumption of innocence and the representation of the defendant in criminal proceedings. Basically, the aim is to integrate the case-law of the European Court of Justice into the law of the countries of the European Union. The right to silence and not self-incrimination is also guaranteed, in which, of course, the Greek legal order has a higher level of protection than the European average. It is therefore declaring the wording proposed by Article 9, but ultimately necessary in the context of harmonization with this directive on the uniform minimum procedural guarantee for the rights of the defendant. For this reason, despite its also declaratory dimension, it is appropriate to recognise the presumption of innocence as the right of the defendant to the Code of Criminal Procedure, in Article 6 of the draft law. On the occasion of the reference to what constitutes an infringement of the presumption of innocence, it is worth pointing out the case of public declarations by the public bodies of a Member State. We wonder how many times this has occurred, has been implemented by officials and government officials of the Greek Government. It also appears that it is right to regulate the burden of proof in the criminal proceedings in Article 8, namely to confirm the time-limit of the Greek law that the defendant must not prove his innocence, but, on the contrary, the prosecutors and the judicial authorities must, on their own initiative, investigate the evidence of the case that is founding guilt or reaching innocence. However, ladies and gentlemen, in our view, this provision on the burden of proof as a new article 117A' in the Code of Criminal Procedure is in our view problematic, in the chapter on the principle of competence, while it concerns the rights of the defendant as a general principle of Criminal Procedure, and has to be classified into another chapter. In relation to Chapter IV on the European Public Prosecutor's Office, this is the application of the provisions of the regulation establishing a European Prosecutor with responsibility for prosecuting crimes affecting the financial interests of the European Union. The regulation is already directly applicable throughout the European Union. However, every Member State - and that is where you wish, our intervention - can regulate individual issues by national law. Thus, Articles 16 and 18 regulate the relevant issues with the procedure for the selection of the European Public Prosecutor by Greece, which will be dealt with by the European Prosecutor and - also - on a proposal from three candidates and the procedural details referred to in the relevant article. We believe, however, that in Article 18 the limitation of candidates for the position of the Greek European Prosecutor's European Public Prosecutors and Prosecutors excludes other judicial officers in an arbitrary and irreparable manner. In our view, it should open this procedure - as in other European countries - to all judicial officers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I would like to ask you two minutes, Mr President. I won't abuse your time. Article 22: In the name of strengthening the self-declaration of the courts, paragraph 7 of Article 17 of the Statute of the Courts of Justice introduced by the 2012 PASOK Law is amended so that the plenary sessions of the Supreme Courts can only refer back the rules of the courts and prosecutors and not supplement them or amend them. That is why this amendment, at least me, gives me no convincing answer. The number of public prosecutors is increasing. Of course, we need to strengthen human resources, but it is still inadequate. What is needed immediately is the reform of criminal law, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is a proper technical arrangement for defining an official to register decisions in the integrated system. I must remind you that the process - which we hope will eventually be dismantled at some point - is still in the heart of the 2011-2012 period, both for the organisation of electronic justice, but also for the issues of the reform of justice. I would like to end with two remarks, which are important and concern the abolition of the self-defense procedure for exalting, defaming and slandering offences. This is essentially a regulation concerning crimes involving the press in particular. We're always positive to that. Of course, the explanatory statement does not make any reference to the press, declaring - unknown why - the intentions of the legislator. The stake for us is the freedom of the press and of journalistic freedom. We recall that since September, 2018, the Democratic Reconciliation had tabled an amendment to abolish the self-defence, but the government had then refused to discuss it. Mr. Katrugalos said that the change should come with the new Criminal Code. So since we don't have a new Criminal Code, I don't understand why it's coming today. It is, however, welcome, because this provision is necessary. I conclude with Chapter F, which contains provisions on the penitentiary system and its functioning. It is planned to extend the beneficial calculation of penalties to workers in the bakery of rural prisons. The regulation is right for the equal treatment of detainees. However, since provisions on the functioning of the penitentiary system are laid down in this draft law, I cannot, Minister, refer to the current situation in Greek prisons. Until yesterday gangs and mafia groups were tying away the penitentiary shops, penitentiaries were abused by prisoners, kidnappings were carried out from wings to wings, and the kidnappers asked for ransom from themselves and their families, ranging from at least five hundred euros to ten thousand euros. Groups of criminal and convicted of terrorism threatened and blackmailed prisoners with a particular economic surface or political face. You know that. Yesterday, there was a record of the creation of a litigation for mafia-circuit action in prisons, carrying out death contracts and trafficking in drugs. In short, fifty mobsters control prisons and the situation has arrived, with the government's tolerance or inaction, in absolute chaos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u24	Do they control or dismantle?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u25	I talked about the case-file that was formed. Minister - since you put it - you met the prison directors a few days ago. What did you plan to change this situation? Because the situation in mafia circuits inside prisons, with such serious criminal offences and such serious criminal acts, I do not think it is a situation in which it is controlled. Therefore, no, it is not controlled and from time to time there are arrests which, obviously, and I do not disprove. I'm just saying that this situation is getting out of hand. There are many prisons now the absolute chaos. But I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u26	And that's what you're closing up with, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u27	Last sentence, Mr President. I believe that if the Ministry of Justice is dealing more with the transfer of Mr Koufantina to rural prisons than to restore order and security to prisons or the permissions of some prisoners, then we understand why crimes of this kind are a daily life in prison. That's why we're here. With these remarks, Minister, to which I would really like an answer, I would say to you that we are saying'residents' in principle and certain articles - at least in the regulation - will vote in favour of them. The question is that we are also asking for answers to the questions that we have not so urgently raised, but that is what is happening today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u28	The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Ioannis Aivatidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. I will make a brief reference, at first, to the legal system governing the European Union. The European Union's directives are only binding in their aim. On the contrary, the European Union's regulations have a mandatory, binding commitment in their essence. We, as Golden Dawn, will vote against this draft law as a whole, because under no circumstances do we want to legitimise, by a positive vote in an article or by the vote 'present', a government which is truly bizarre, which has acquired an artificial majority and most importantly and with the most unpleasant and unfavourable consequences for our country, has assigned Macedonia's sacred name to the Skopje. In no case, that is to say, we cannot adopt a positive view of a draft law or a positive view of articles and, indirectly but clearly, draw up with a government which has, I repeat, given the sacred name of Macedonia. Both the directives and the regulations of the European Union, as regards their harmonisation with our national law, are another form of national sovereignty. The Golden Dawn opposes the assignment of national sovereignty to any form and level. In Chapter I of the draft law, it is validated under number 16 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and is provided for in this Supreme Greek Court to request an opinion to the European Court of Human Rights. This Opinion was drawn up in the light of the paper produced by the Section for Industry, Commerce, Crafts and Services, chaired by Mr Rothley (Netherlands — Various Interests). In other words, it is not binding on the Greek Supreme Court and, therefore, this sanction, in our view, is unfounded. In Chapter B, there is Directive 343/2016. There are two articles I'm going to focus on. It is Article 6, on the presumption of innocence, and Article 9, on the right of silence and non-autonomisation of suspects and accused persons. In accordance with Article 6, when the presumption of innocence is violated - with inadmissibility, i.e. - by public statements by public authorities, then the accused, the accused or suspect, has the right to raise civil claims, compensation by appeal, in accordance with Articles 105 and 106 of the Introductory Law of the Civil Code. What does this provision matter? Clearly and in the direction of what is called the 'just trial', 'fair trial'. But we all know that a trial is under way with accused Members of the Golden Dawn and officials of the criminal movement, with a broken charge. And some Members - and not only, and ministers - are immediately or indirectly circumventing the presumption of innocence. The Minister of Justice does not answer questions raised by the Members of the Golden Dawn concerning justice matters, on the grounds that he observes the constitutional and parliamentary order himself, and the very opposite is true. At the same time, the presumption of innocence is being circumvented, because not only is he referring to the allegedly maintained, through the non-response, constitutional parliamentary order, but also to other ministers - like the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paulakis, who does not answer questions of the Golden Dawn because he is still pending...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u30	No, I'm not answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u31	Here, Mr. Polakis, you will take care of me, because it is your concern.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u32	Until the trial ends, I'm not answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u33	It's none of your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u34	Just in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u35	Just in time, exactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u36	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u37	Mr Paulakis, therefore - and I say this about Mr Paulakis, who is allegedly being put on the record and has them all, while he has neither politically nor in any other way - does not answer - but Mr Xanthos - questions raised by the Members of the Golden Dawn directly violates the presumption of innocence and will have to be changed, because we will follow the current draft law to be adopted, for actions for damages under Articles - I repeat - 105 and 106 of the Introductory Law of the Civil Code. With regard to the right to silence and not to self-incrimination of a suspect or accused person and Article 9, Chapter II of the Directive states that: ‘ Suspects and accused persons should not be forced to provide evidence or documents leading to self-incrimination’. We think it is wrong, because, following a complaint from a suspect or accused person, the judge, at any level of formation of a judicial conviction, is not a self-determination methodology, but a methodology in the context of the probative procedure. In our opinion, what is called 'ethical proof' is also affected as a means of proof. In Chapter C, and in particular in Article 15, there should be an amendment, an addition, I would say. According to this article, a wanted person who has been sentenced in absentia to a country in the European Union and who has not been served by the sentence may request suspension or interruption of its execution to the detriment of the decision and may be effectively released. We believe that major issues of public security arise, because such convicted people may even be terrorists, even terrorists, about what is called 'Islamist terrorism'. There should therefore be an explicit addition to the fact that public security should not be jeopardised when Article 15 is applied.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Aivatidis, I'm sorry for a few seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theories by twenty students and schoolchildren and two of their educational attendants from the 7th High School of Nice. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you, Mr. Aivatidis, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u39	Chapter IV contains the regulation of the European Union, which, I repeat, has an explicit obligation for our Member State as a member of the European Union and concerns the establishment of the European Prosecutor. I would like to make it clear that it concerns an economic prosecutor and not a prosecutor of another kind. Indeed, the aim is to safeguard the European Union's financial interests in the event of fraud. I am sure that the first point to be addressed by the Greek European Economic Prosecutor or to be asked to investigate is the issue of the dismantling of European funds, about EUR 53 million. It is said that it is being investigated by the European Anti-Fraud Agency, the known OLAF, which is a European anti-fraud committee. This research concerns the dismantling of funds with regard to the feeding of migrants and the minimum refugees present in our country. Chapter V, and in particular Article 33, provides for the prosecution to intervene before the arrest and production of an insult for exaltation, defamation or defamation pursuant to Article 361, 362 and 363 of the Criminal Code. We believe that this provision is a pretext and does not solve the problem. I think that the Cyril cases are the ones that concern journalists. And I would like to stress that I was particularly aware of the views of the CSCE and its representatives, that in some cases the self-defense should be applied, the arrest of a journalist. Evidently, when these journalists are not pleasing to the CSCE itself. Finally, I shall refer to Rule 38, which we request as Golden Dawn to withdraw. It's about forensics. Having served in the Ministry of Justice for many years as a coroner, in various forensic services, I would like to assure the House that in the collection of law on legal services there is an extract with which coroners of the Ministry of Justice, of course, are official advisers of regular justice. With this, by law that today introduces the Ministry of Justice, it is downgrading the service of the Ministry of Justice. It is unprecedented indeed, and holds an equal scientific and service role in secondary curator II, non-persistent officials, who are not once vowed, who have little experience in order to have a service, as the Minister of Justice, the citizens, said. As high-profile lawyers, the Minister for Justice and the Deputy Minister also know very well that the purpose, of course, of carrying out a legal act is to discover the truth and the increased guarantee of expertise, not the service, which can be brought to a macabre service, that is to say, of a macabre nature. So this has to be withdrawn. It is not possible for what is called ‘equal distribution’ to become a levelling-up of the medical services, the medical laboratories of the universities, with nursery establishments which do not have infrastructure, because there is not even a medical establishment that has appropriate infrastructure. This provision is obsolete. Finally, I will conclude by saying: The Minister of Justice, Mr Kalogerou, but also Mr Paulakis, will have to answer the questions raised by the Members of the Golden Dawn and for another reason, because one cannot imagine that Mr Paulakis or Mr Kalogeros are more democratic than Mr Kontonis or Mr Paradise, who were responding. One last thing: The Minister for Justice, who of course has a partially disarmamental courtesy and legal knowledge, can in no way be a non-parliamentary invoking the parliamentary order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u40	The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Syntakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Before going to the draft law, let me express on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece our warmest condolences to the families of the victims who were lost so unfairly in the waters of Geropotamos in the Municipality of Faistos Crete. This tragic event, with the victims of four human lives, highlights the state nakedness, the lack of infrastructure and government planning to protect from natural phenomena, highlights the contempt for human life. Many people are talking about civil protection, about the need to take measures from the government, from the local authorities, from the regional authorities. They make unexplained plans, but on paper these are actually to fool the people, giving crumbs for people's needs. Unfortunately, Crete, as a result of these intense rainfalls, must be declared in an emergency and Chania Prefecture and the areas of Rethymno and Heraklion. The ministers refused twice to come to discuss a timely question on this issue about the situation in Crete. One of them throws the ball at each other. Mr. Spirtzis throws responsibility in the region, the region in Mr. Spirtzis, the municipality in the region, Mr. Spirtzis. He finds no sign of who has the first and the main responsibility. Responsibility is exclusively to the governments that over time led things there so that human lives came to be at the mercy of weather conditions. Going to the draft law, I will say that this is a complex and veritable draft law, from what is used to import the Ministry of Justice and the Government, making it difficult to discuss and put in place. More specifically, Chapter I on Articles 1 to 4, concerning the ratification of the 16th Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights - hereinafter referred to as the ECHR - is, in our view, the follow-up and moves in the same logic as the ratification of the 15th Protocol, which was voted on by the plenary about two months ago. The 15th Protocol was a result of an attempt to alleviate frictions that had arisen between the European Court of Human Rights and national authorities and courts as a result of conflicts in the European Union and occupies expressed in the level of individual rights. This protocol recognised an important role in national courts, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, and gave them a margin of manoeuvre to adapt with flexibility to the implementation of the obligations of the ECHR. The Court of Justice held a more effective role in the integration of the relevant case-law. In this direction, the strengthening of the executive role that the European Court of Human Rights has to play is also under way, and the 16th ECHR Protocol, which we are discussing. In our opinion, in addition to the general, at least to our reserve of the role of the European Court of Human Rights is Article 3 of the Protocol, which provides the President of the European Court of Justice, in the course of the advisory procedure and the hearing procedure concerned, with the opportunity to call in writing on the relevant procedure, except in the case of the State, the highest court whose opinion is sought and expresses its opinion, a Contracting State or any person, who is not a party or any person concerned, which may, of course, have a significant economic, political interest and affect the judgement of the Court on the opinion. The main issue for the Communist Party of Greece is that Euro-Union and domestic legislation and the exercise of public power are becoming more reactionary and authoritarian towards workers and popular strata, as well as with regard to individual rights and freedoms. Effective way out cannot be to resort to the European Court of Justice, for whose role, as we said before, we have at least strong reservations, but the struggle of the workers and the people of our country, like the other states of Europe, to overthrow this legislation and power. In this overall struggle, some rights and freedoms will be conquered, even temporarily. For these reasons, the JRC shall vote'residences' in the relevant Articles 1 to 4, as was also set up for the 15th Protocol, which was preceded by the 16th which we are debating today. With regard to Chapter B, in Articles 5 to 10 concerning the presumption of innocence, the explanatory memorandum states that the objective of the directive is to lay down minimum common rules for certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to representation of the defendant in the trial, by introducing minimum rules for the protection of the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons, not, of course, on grounds of sensitivity to individual rights, which, after all, have been broken down together with social rights and various terrorists, but to strengthen the confidence of the Member States in the systems of the award of criminal justice of the other Member States and thus to facilitate the mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters and to remove any obstacles to the free movement of citizens in the territory of the Member States. In other words, the reason for the directive is, by facilitating the application of the principle of mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters, to promote the maintenance and development of the European Union's reactionary single area of freedom, security and justice, as formulated in the Tampere Agreement of Finland, then the Hague Programme and the Stockholm Programme of 2010, and in particular in matters of judicial cooperation between Member States in criminal matters. The JRC had reacted and opposed this process. He pointed out the major negative consequences for the rights and freedoms, both of the citizens of the Member States of the European Union and of the citizens of third countries, especially migrants and refugees. All reactionary legislative interventions at the transnational and national level have confirmed the position of the JRC and I am referring to the Schengen Convention, the promotion of legislation for the competent State to examine asylum applications, terrorists, Dublin I, Dublin II, the European arrest warrant and various other practices of the Member States of the European Union and the repressive mechanisms they have put together, such as EUROPOL and EUROJUST. In particular, for the articles concerned, we note, as a problematic point of the directive, Articles 5, 6, 7 on the joint treatment of suspects with the defendant on the issue of the so-called presumption of innocence, in particular by adding Article 72A of the Code of Criminal Procedure introduced by Article 6. It is problematic, because for the simple suspect, it should not even be a question of the application of presumption of innocence, since it should not be treated as a potential defendant, one more reason, when in practice the increasingly repressive legislation deprives citizens of basic procedural guarantees, such as the reception of DNA. In the name of countering terrorism, there is a widening of the suspects' circle and unfounded transformation of them to accused persons. The characteristic case of Herianna and Pericles is still fresh. As a Communist Party of Greece, we had strongly criticised the European Arrest Warrant at Law 3251/2004 and reminded you that it was introducing the suspect's regime for the first time. For example, it could be packed and sent by a Greek to a Member State of the European Union that its police authorities would consider him to be suspected of committing a crime. In a problem also, the possibility of bringing an action for damages by the defendant is reflected in Article 7, due to the infringement of the presumption of innocence by statements of public authorities at any stage of the procedure before the first or second stage of the procedure, which are stated directly in the pending criminal proceedings and which urge the public to believe in the defendant's guilt or to assess the facts prejudicial to the outcome of the judicial judgement. The parliamentary amendment tabled by a general number of 1956 and a special figure of 170, concerning the addition to this article 7 for the violation of the presumption of innocence, if accepted, will be adopted by us. However, this amendment may have a basis, which is why we are voting 'at present', but there is a risk of how and from whom it can be exploited. In our view the defendant's presumption of innocence must be protected, but this is not the most appropriate way. How effective protection of the presumption of innocence is provided by regulation, where public authorities restrict their insult to the media of the big business people who distribute any conceived want for reasons of increasing the viewing, advertising and the end of their profits, or for reasons of interconnection with public persons? What protection of the presumption of innocence is given in this case? However, it is not unlikely that the regulation will work in the opposite direction in the intended direction, that is to say, to make use of it even professedly for criminals to gain a financial advantage. From there on, simple, logical arrangements are introduced with the rest of the relevant articles of this chapter, which almost certainly had to be applied. In Articles 5, 6 and 7 we say 'the present' and we are voting in favour of Articles 8, 9, 10. In the third chapter, Articles 11 to 15 we shall vote on « Presents ». It concerns one side of the European Arrest Warrant, and in particular, as mentioned in the explanatory statement, the establishment of common bases which will allow the refusal to recognise decisions adopted in trials in which the wanted person did not appear in person. At first glance, it seems that the arrangements are to strengthen the safeguarding of the procedural rights of the sought person, in order to avoid the execution of a European warrant against him in relation to a decision taken at a trial without his presence. In essence, however, as the provisions, in particular Articles 11 and 13, leave windows open under conditions for the execution of a European warrant with regard to a decision adopted by the requested State and impose a custodial penalty even if the sought person was sentenced to the requested State without his presence in the court. The overall aim of the regulations is, in fact, to ensure some common guarantees of legality, so as to finally facilitate the execution of European arrest warrants, and this is to promote the principle of mutual recognition of judgments at Member State level within the European Union in the context of the so-called Single Area of Freedom, Security and Justice. The JRC strongly disagreed with the establishment of the European Warrant in 2004 in the debate of the relevant bill. Yes, he left then. Among other things, we supported as a party: Firstly, with the introduction of a European warrant, competence is transferred which belongs to the narrow core of the state, and indeed to individual rights, from the Greek state to European institutions and other countries. Secondly, the possibility of handing over Greek citizens to third countries is being introduced, which is contrary to Article 5(2) of the Constitution, which provides for only foreigners to be issued. Thirdly, the two-tier principle is bent once the country can be forced to hand over a Greek citizen or another person to a third country for a crime, without providing for the offence in question in our country as well. Fourthly, the specialisation principle is bent, as, in addition to the offence for which a European warrant is being enforced, they may then be charged to the seeking state and other charges on the basis of the extradited person, while the handover of the extradited person to third countries outside the European Union, such as the United States of America, is facilitated. On the fourth chapter in Articles 16 to 21 concerning the European Public Prosecutor, I would like to say the following. These provisions are extremely reactionary and dangerous to popular freedoms. The JRC had strongly opposed these provisions, it had denounced them, as well as the participation of our country in it, namely the European Prosecutor, appointed by a Greek European Prosecutor. Especially negative and dangerous is Article 19 of the draft law which gives European appointed prosecutors the same powers as national prosecutors in terms of investigation, prosecution and referral of cases to justice. We are voting against this chapter as a whole. In fact, we're asking for his withdrawal. With regard to the fifth chapter, Articles 22 and 39, which deal with various matters of justice, I do not want to go any further, because I do not have time. Just say about Article 38...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u42	You'll have a second, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Rule 38 - and to conclude with this - on the conduct of legal proceedings, we will vote in favour of it. The Prosecutor of the Ice Bay has given a positive opinion on this regulation, and the Greek Medical Association is also in favour of it. The regulation provides for legal actions to be carried out in medical establishments with a coronary and appropriate laboratory infrastructure in the same way as other medical services. In other words, they will not be done exceptionally, as has been the case so far. We would point out, however, that forensics who work in public hospitals should be permanentised immediately and, secondly, no legal action should be imposed on families, whether it concerns opinions or the costs of transporting, where necessary, the person being examined. Overall, in principle, we are voting against the bill, mainly because it contains the fourth chapter with provisions on reactionary and dangerous to popular freedoms in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory of thirty-nine students and students and three of their school attendants from the Corinth High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] A request from Mr Xydakis, who has to go to the committee he is involved, to take the floor for two minutes to defend a parliamentary amendment he has tabled. Anyone who wants to speak from the parties will speak at the end, either in their dentistry or at the end of their position. Here, Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm gonna need just two minutes. We ask the Minister to incorporate an addition to the draft law in Article 7 for the infringement of the presumption of innocence, saying that if someone has been irrevocably sentenced by the Greek courts and has been found by the European Court of Human Rights that the presumption of innocence has been infringed, he must have the right to seek a favor, to apply to the grace board and to a second degree, of course, as he will go to the President of the Republic, in order to mitigate the sentence alone, not to change anything from the substance of irrevocable condemnation, but to ask for the courtesy of the Greek political system. I think it is within the spirit and the directive that we incorporate in the spirit of Greek democracy and the Constitution for the grant of grace and this application. We have here eminent lawyers running the parliamentary groups, who have been informed above - down, they know everything and they will be placed. This is what I call for and I call for the understanding of the House and the Minister of State for this small amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u46	Okay, when the Minister takes the floor, he'll be placed. As Mr Paulakis has finished with the committee that had a bill and has to go to the Ministry, I will give him the floor for five minutes, firstly, to present his amendment as a Ministry of Health and secondly, he said that he considered what was said, in particular by Mr Papatheodorou, to be a personal attack and he wants to reply. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor for five minutes. Let's start with the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is the amendment we have tabled to the bill of the Ministry of Justice of 1954 and a specialist of 168, which extends the term of office of the Central Board of Health for three months. The reason why this is being done is because, in the Ministry of Health bill, the debate has already begun in the Committee on Social Affairs of the Parliament, legislation changes the composition of the institution. That is why, in order not to proceed with two appointments, we are extending the mandate of the existing Central Health Council for three months, and with the new draft law and the new composition, we will proceed before the end of the three months in its reconstruction. That is the amendment. Now, because, for the last three or four days, a huge murder operation of my character has been unleashed once again, I feel obliged to respond. I replied before and with an announcement. Look what's the big picture. Tsukatos comes to court and says in 2000 PASOK took 16 billion drachmas from companies that keep their anonymity, of course, which today also finance political parties, to run elections in 2000. It surfaces on the surface that the 'CORDER THEME', this independent newspaper, in addition to its EUR 33 million loans, financed it - says - a shipowner, through his fronts, and with deposits in Switzerland of EUR 1.8 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u48	Millions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u49	Millions of euros! You know how to measure well, Mr Georgiadis, the millions of billions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u50	No dialogue, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u51	Of course, Mr President. The gentleman is thrown away! It emerges that the same shipowner has financed Ms Marva Grabovsky's company - Mitsotakis with 800,000 euros. And what is the matter of the days, because all this became one-off? It's that I got a loan of 100,000 euros that started a spit. First of all, just a footnote, because I am transparent: where are all those defenders of personal rights? Where are all those who throw their eyebrow and their skin when personal evidence is revealed? Where are they all to defend me - and not only is it'me', I am in front and up - of my family, with what has happened? The parentheses are closed. I don't care about that! The question is this: A leak is coming out, which says that it 'has obtained an illegal loan'. The bank comes out and says "no, it's legal loan, everything" and at the same time Mr Stournaras comes out, shortly after - that's what happened yesterday, because it also matters the time series - and the press release from the Attica Bank that responds to all those in the morning barracks, with the emissions - Protosalte, Papapanagiotou and all those who were fed earlier from CEDEFOP, all this media system - is leaking from the Bank of Greece that he called to control the legal or not of the loan. Of course, I called Mr. Stournara, clearly I called him. And I told him and fully confirm the conversation that was distributed and published on the website of the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO'. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Is it going to disguise the contents of the conversation, so we can talk politically? There is no denial of the contents of the conversation, which I say you are doing very well, Mr Stournara, and that is what you are, the archipelago of the country, and you must also check public persons whether or not they took the loan legally. You are doing very well, but since you have shown such sensitivity and act with such an independent institutional integrity, see a little and a few other loans for which you have done absolutely nothing and no one single, nowhere. What are these loans? It is 33,000,000 euros of the “PRO THEMA” newspaper, which has to be due by Piraeus Bank for a year. And what's going on? Isn't that what he cares about the capital adequacy of the bank that's hitting her a big media? Is this independent banker not interested in loans from other political persons who have seen the light of publicity?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u53	One of you! Oh, the hand up! Playmobil moved!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u54	Listen, Mr Polakis, in a minute you will be able to complete, in response to why the matter was different, that is, if Mr Stournaras knew you were recording it or not. That's what you tell us and get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u55	So I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Georgiadis, I'm not blind. I run, and whenever I want, I'll give the floor. Mr. Polakis, hang up in a minute! With me in the Chair, that's cut!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u58	So I say, as you have checked, of course, that you also control the remaining loans, which exist, concerning political persons, concerning a number of precarious operations in the country, etc., and do this check and ask him to see what? As soon as we finish the phone and after the news reports have been passed, the Bank of Greece also sends that the issue is closed, it is the legal product of Attica Bank. Of course, he's throwing away the beer, that Paulis has only taken away, just the political person, and he doesn't say how many others have been taken. And now, instead of saying this today, that my entire personal demolition operation of three days, to cover everything that came out at the forum in relation to funding from offshore in the newspaper, the "PROTO THEMA", of his wife Mitsotakis, etc., the problem is whether I recorded. I'm not recording anyone, guys. That I have to say it clearly and unequivocally and forward. Not to use and not to throw the ball at the platform, Mr Stournaras, to turn the conversation into a misfortune about allegedly malicious act, etc. To say politically: Does it disprove the content of the essential conversation he has had?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u59	All right, you're closed. You didn't answer my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u60	The rest is just to have all those parrots who, I understand, I feel it, I feel them, I feel them, I feel them, it's time...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Polakis, I'll turn off the microphone if you're not finished in thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u62	All right, Mr. President. The time has come for responsibilities to be attributed, which will end the findings. Mr Stournaras cannot use his institutional capacity to set up solitary operations against me. And the reason that makes this rotting operation, knowing its institutional status, is because, yes, I have contributed to revealing both the "NOVARTIS" scandal and the CEDEFOP scandal, which are also involved, he and his wife.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u63	Well! You have no more reason! Turn off the microphone to Mr. Polakis. There's nothing on it from now on. You can't take ten minutes. We're done! Turn off the microphone now! Because you referred to two colleagues who spoke about the story last, not about the loan, but about the history of your telephone communication with Mr Stournara, one was Mr Panagiotopoulos and the other was Mr Papatheodorou, on behalf of the New Democracy - for two minutes, please - and on behalf of the Democratic Reconciliation or you, Mr Papatheodorou, or your parliamentary representative - everything you want - and for one minute after Mr Georgiadis' staff. Please have a drink and please for a minute. The designations "..." and "..." for people who are not in Parliament and cannot defend themselves, by my own decision, are deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u64	I agree, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u65	I would like to ask you very much for your references - I give you the opportunity to say this because you have not brought any information - to Mrs Marva Mitsotakis. You say it and say it again without having brought any evidence for people who cannot defend themselves while you say it. Mr. Panayotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u66	I have not referred either to the publications or to the bank's lending policy which has given Mr Polakis or, of course, to Mr Stournara's supervisory powers as a central banker. I have referred to a very specific provision in the Criminal Code, which I have drawn up in the court's minutes. The law, Mr. Polakis, is not a stupidity or a trivial detail uncomfortable for some. The law is law. And I said in my introduction that on the basis of what you claimed, you recorded your conversation with the central banker without his consent, you violated a very specific provision of the criminal law. Finally, no loans, no Stournaras, no publications or nothing!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u67	Where did I claim that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u68	But you, in your post, took this off.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Polakis, you'll be closing down in response to the two colleagues. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u70	That's all I've got. I have also supported the absence so far of any response from the point of view of justice. I'm not even talking about the government. That's all. Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u71	This isn't about Mr. Polakis. The Minister present will answer. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u72	So Mr. Paulakis comes and explains us about his loan. I have not mentioned your loan either, it is about the banks. What concerns Parliament, however, is the smuggling of a conversation which has been intercepted by a minister to the central banker. And he says, 'I don't care about 370A of the Criminal Code'. Right, let justice see it. But come on, let's talk politically. Politics, then, I tell you that from the moment you come here and pull the matter back, 'that I have not made any intercept, because I have not recorded anyone', you will have to erase what you were saying before a day or if you resign. Because Minister, who calls the central banker and tells him that "I will come there and see", is not a democratic country minister. That's what I said. What will justice find from there on, she'll find it on her own and if she moves. But, on the other hand, it's your favorite tactic and I want to tell you that. On the one hand, we have yogirds that happen and when you come to the Ethics Committee and you tell us, "Look at see, I had a collective decision, because some tourists were coming," on the other hand, we keep double books, but we do it for political reasons, and on the third hand, we can slander everyone, but because we are ministers we can go and say the law...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Papatheodorou, don't get away too. It's a specific matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u74	I'm done with a phrase. Mr Polakis, you will not say here about Mr Tsukatos' 16 billion drachmas. He's a defendant, and the defendant says what he wants. In fact, we are talking about this today. There's no such thing as that. Look at those you've got there. Look at the former PASOK secretaries you've taken them there. Look at the ex-masters, which you're slapping right now and you've accepted as they are. That's where you won't be looking. At the moment, the political problem is not here, you have the political problem, and you will have to resign, Mr Polakis. You are wrong, not the government - this government is over - but you are harming the quality of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u75	I will give Mr Georgiadis the floor for a minute, because you have referred to Mr Polakis for three minutes, and we will continue with the bill. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very calm and trustworthy as far as possible to Mr Polakis I would like to tell him this. Thursday we have a court of law. Avenges me against Mr. Polakis again for a false reference to my "from where you are", which he knows, because I sent him the findings of the relevant committee "Never Nexts" of the House, which unanimously checked my "subjects", on my own mandate a few months ago and unanimously - I stress it - and with the signature of the SYRIZA he considered that my "subjects" is fine. As to my loan, if he has a question, if he asked me, I would explain to him that I took it, as a private person, before I was elected a Member, it is housing, it is a debt instrument. The reason why you see the capital not to have been reduced is because those who know the interest-free loans know that in the first decade you pay interest, and then you pay the loans, i.e. capital. It's a regular service. It is a loan similar to thousands of Greeks, first home dwellings. If it is possible, Mr President, to consult the House with mud for the absolutely obvious Greek citizens, we will not make any sense. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to say - and I address the Minister for Justice, who is a noble man - that, you know, it is a little chaos. We are discussing the directive on the rights of the accused and Mr Paulakis accuses Mr Stournara and his wife of an ongoing criminal procedure. In other words, under the law brought by Mr. Kalogerou, now Mr. Paulakis has to pay a fine. You don't even understand that, and you're playing Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u77	To the plural. We're closing with Mr. Polakis. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor for three minutes, and you say goodbye to us, to go to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. You have falsified my words and you, Mr. Panayotopoulos, and Mr. Papatheodorou. Where did I say I recorded the conversation? I confirmed the post.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u79	Recording...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u81	Wait a minute. No recording.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, are we not interested in listening? We're interested.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u83	You know what? I have a huge memorial. I remember very well what I'm saying. I remember what I said twenty-five years ago. I have a very big memorial. I repeat the question: from what I said, from what Mr Stournaras carried, is there anything that Mr Stournaras has to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u84	Frustrate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u85	Did SSM order to check on Attica Bank and cooperatives and can't control systemics, where are the other loans there? Because that's it. Don't throw the ball on the platform. You set up a whole thing in relation to the loan, which fell and not from the Attica Bank, but from the supervisory authority of the Bank of Greece. That's where the leaks left. Where did they leave? Did they smell their fingernails and write it? So when we set up this complicity and reveal it and swallow it, what do we say? We say, "Ah, record. Illegally'. On the substance, that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u86	Stournaras sent the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Cryazides, you have written a speaker. When your turn comes, say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u88	Two, you did, too. I said: "I will come, Mr Stournara and demand that you check the other loans and I will not go...".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u89	In what capacity?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u90	In the capacity of man who was devastated by your media and he and his family three days. In this capacity. Don't I have that right as a Greek citizen?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u91	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u92	I don't have it, in your opinion, because that's what your processions are hiding. I too, Mr Georgiadis, would very much like to have in my first housing loan an arrangement of this kind that only pays interest for ten years and does not reduce capital.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u93	Everybody's got it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u94	No, they don't. It's like you're telling me the other loan of "KERYKA" that's 600,000...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u95	We do not proceed to 'proclaimers' and declarations!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u96	Wait a minute. I'll pay for it, he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u97	That's not your personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u98	...and six hundred fifty at the end. Nice setup! Where do they get her to go and get out of here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, give me a minute to explain it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Georgiadis, we're not taking a class right now. And I have at the Deposit and Loan, and it's like you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much. Hello!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u102	Ten out of fifteen years of unpaid interest and debt. We all know that in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u103	Hey, tell Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Saridis, you have the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Grab a chunk now! Get out! Mr. Saridis, I personally apologise for delaying you. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, as you can see, the political environment within which we are legislating these days is particularly toxic. I hoped, therefore, that the Government, in understanding the risk of division, which passes through the doors of the temple of democracy and touches Greek citizens in a subtle way and disrupts social cohesion, could do something to reverse this situation. I hoped that both the Civic Opposition and the Opposition would do in general. I also hoped that the government would be consistent with its obligations, just to send a message that it would like to limit the consequences of the breakdown of the confidence of Greek citizens towards the functioning of democracy and its institutions. The SYRIZA rapporteur said earlier that citizens' confidence in the institutions was rightly compromised and that an institutional redeployment is needed. The Minister himself in his initial suggestion to the relevant committees explained that trust in justice and confidence in politics are interconnected. They are inextricably linked and must be strengthened at the same time. Unfortunately, all this is nothing but, in my humble sense, words of air. Either you don't mean what you're saying or you don't understand what you're saying. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I had told you in my budget that the real opening in the centre is not by political transfer, nor by eye closures at conferences. Today, I add, the opening of the centre cannot be done by any ministries. It seems that your Government prefers to approach the centre on communal terms, by ministering out-parliamentarians who are unknown what politically defend their positions, what are their views, and what are their views, even indifferent to the attitude of those who ministurize three months ago, i.e. whether they cursed it and criticised it. When you, the Congressmen, defended your government, those who had been smuggling it! You made a promise from this, Mr. Minister, and you and your other colleagues, that you will pay attention to what we are proposing. We are still waiting for your commitment, Minister, and we will wait for this commitment for a while. You may never do it, it may prove that you are like everyone else, the same as the ones you complained about, the same without any difference. Since you will not have any difference at all, as will prove it, then why should the Greek people vote again? What would New Democracy and the Change Movement not do if it were in power? Wouldn't he put taxes on it? Wouldn't it reduce wages? Wouldn't it reduce pensions? Wouldn't they keep up with the creditors' requirements? Wouldn't they get the country out of the memos in August 2018? What wouldn't they do where you did it? Did you fight corruption? Did you fight the complication? What results did you bring? Because Greek citizens outside expect results. What results did you bring to you to believe that you have made a difference? As a Centro Association, we are approaching and examining this draft law with a view to strengthening anything that could help justice to carry out its work intactly, to operate without delay and to regain citizens' confidence as soon as possible. Therefore, our attempted institutional armour is in agreement, as is the government's stated willingness to proceed with re-controlling legislation, but also with the painful rationalisation process concerning the various codes. On the first four chapters of the bill, we are positive after the clarifications on various issues given by the Minister. In Chapter I, the provision of the possibility of requesting the highest courts in the country, whenever they consider it necessary, of a non-binding opinion from the European Court of Human Rights finds us in agreement, as of course all of its provisions to be ratified by Protocol No 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Chapters II and III are moving in the right direction and that is why we will support them in the motion for a resolution according to Article, as they propose the incorporation of Directive 343/2016 and the amendment of Law 3251/2004 respectively. They are intended to strengthen the institution of the European Arrest Warrant, while at the same time ensuring the right to silence, the right to non-immunification, as well as the right to bring actions for damages. Chapter IV further highlights this inseparable relationship that, as I mentioned earlier, exists and develops between justice and politics, as regards the confidence of citizens in the institutions. The new institution, therefore, of the European Prosecutor-General, which we too want to see as soon as possible, is a positive step in every respect, as it is a step that we are doing together, at a time when Europe is looking to find its step, recognising the need to take this step, admitting that it is for all of us and thus reminding all citizens that the famous European acquis, as well as in constant dispute - the question of populism, namely - continues to be a strong foundation for cooperation and consensus. And it is good that the Greek citizens remember this, even in view of the forthcoming critical European elections, which, not least, will judge the course of a united Europe. We therefore agree with Chapter IV which provides for the application of the provisions of Council Regulation 1939 of 12 October 2017 on enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor. With regard to what is envisaged in Chapters V and VI, that is to say, those that are outside the notorious principle, those that make a multiplier - essentially - of the current legislative initiative of the Government, there have been many changes and improvements. Therefore, from these changes we as the Central Association are driving here, but above all we are heading to the present, agreeing at the outset of the bill, but disagreeing with the 'package' of provisions - which is done out of memoranda, because we could justify you as far as we were within the memoranda, but out of the memoranda we cannot justify you with anything - which is in a different principle. Before going down from this Step, I would like to make a reference to a great injustice committed against a portion of our fellow citizens, young children with graduates, with doctoral qualifications, who were arbitrarily excluded from an ADP competition and who are struggling to find their point of view. I am referring to AAC/2017, which relates to four hundred secretaries' posts, Minister. In the original publication of this notice on 10 March 2017, a wide list of graduates and postgraduate degrees and doctoral qualifications was accepted. On 20-10-2017, following the audit of supporting documents, in accordance with the envisaged procedure of the AACC, the list of provisional nominees was announced, which were subsequently invited to take up their duties. Another went to Mesolong, another went to Kalamata, another went to Ioannina. These people dreamed, you know. They opened houses where they went. They wasted money they didn't get out of. Then, with a view to being arbitrary - in our view - and with an unprecedented view of our - changing arbitrary, hundred and thirty-nine people, including ninety-two with doctoral qualifications chosen in the first phase, were found out of appointment and the total reclassifications of the table in the AACC reached about 70%, unprecedented for the actions of the AACC itself. I address to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to the House, I address the Minister: is this how we are thinking of changing Greece? So you're thinking of gaining the confidence of our youth, our scientists? So you're thinking of serving truth, transparency, justice, democracy? You're mistaken if that's what you're thinking. So I invite you all to look at the case together, and the Minister, on his side, and you and Parliament, on its side, and to give an answer to these children, to these young scientists. Give an answer not for you, not for us, but for our democracy. We are voting'residents' at first instance on this bill. The articles will be put to the vote and the amendments to our second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Kalogerou, would you like to take the floor now for your central speech? Of course you have a second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, I would like to speak now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u108	Okay. Immediately afterwards, we'll start the list of speakers. The first five are Mr. Giolas, Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Kegeroglou, Mrs. Kozobol and Mr. Vorides. And, of course, the Parliamentary Representatives are asking for the floor whenever you want. Minister, you have the floor. I give you a little more time, because you might want to respond to a number of incidents that have been put forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond to the issues, without turning my debate into a debate, and without reserveing myself the status of public prosecutor or prosecutor or defender, since I believe that this debate within this House is a legislative debate. I understand both the timeliness and issues that concern me. I believe that the measure has been put in place by the Bureau as well. I will therefore concentrate on the issues of the bill, which - indirectly but clearly - and the incidental issues that have been raised so far and, if necessary, I will come back. I consider it objective that the completion of the Financial Adjustment Programme in August 2018 has enabled the development and implementation of the government work, and the Ministry of Justice, together with the other Ministries of that Government to legislate and return - in particular the Ministry of Justice - on two axes in my assessment: firstly, institutional shielding, institutional addressing specific problems and issues, on the one hand, to tackle problems of everyday life, on the other hand, what we call 'prosperation of wounds in the social body', problems created following the lack of the economic crisis and the monumental policies. These two axes move this bill, which was largely prepared for protocol 16, as well as for the inclusion of 343 by the Ministry of Justice at an earlier stage and supplemented by two chapters on the fulfilment of requests made by both judicial associations and the legal system, as well as on urgent issues relating to the exercise of our own penitentiary policy. I will also try to respond, because the debate in the committees has been substantial and constructive and because we want to make legislative improvements that satisfy - in my opinion - and are responding to issues raised by Members of all the groups. So I'll start vice versa. I will begin with Chapters V and F which I consider to be extremely important in terms of meeting time demands. I am starting with the issue of legal aid. Firstly, there is an important provision for legal aid and for the recent process of issuing a symbolic consensus divorce. The rules providing for legal aid shall also be introduced in this procedure. And, of course, the main thing is that we are faced with a multi-annual arrhythmia, an inconsistency between the provision of legal aid by lawyers, the extradition of documents and the length of time available to pay the compensation. By this provision, therefore, the publication of the documents in question occurs when the compensation is paid and this time-consuming misappropriation is closed. On the subject you raised, Mr Panayotopoulos, on the necessary supporting documents, there is no question of legislating. There is authorisation and I can commit to this that we will make a ministerial decision which will provide for a court-certification in order to deal with the specific payment of compensation to lawyers providing legal aid in a timely manner. Extremely important is the regulation on the legal nature of the lawyers - their constant request - and, of course, as the chairman of the assembly of lawyers has said, this regulation also goes hand in hand and provides for workers in the lawyers. Positive regulation is also to satisfy a consistent request for judicial associations which provides for the advance payment of compensation - transition, both of the judicial officers and of the secretaries of the transitional courts. So what's going on so far? Both the judicial officers and the secretaries were obliged to pay their own costs of moving them. This provision will pre-pay this expenditure. I think that this is also a very necessary and positive regulation. It is important, too, to cover those who provide socially beneficial work. I think that this is also a necessary provision, as is the increase in the organic positions of judges, which is also provided for in Chapter V. A significant positive arrangement in Chapter V is the provision concerning the non-automatic procedure in respect of offences 361 and 363 of the Criminal Code. In this respect, we have made it clear that, with the legal specificity of the case and complementing it, 'and when it is made through the press', there is no question about the provisions of Article 262. I would point out again that there is the public Prosecutor's reservation, in that the prosecutor can judge whether or not the procedure is followed, when he considers both the size of the offence and, above all, the time-limit for the recovery of persons who may be affected by such offences. Then, in these cases it may be preferable to restore the legitimate object that will have been affected, to observe the self-contained procedure. As regards the fact that journalists are not explicitly provided for the remark made, if I am not mistaken, by Mr Papatheodorou, the answer here is simple: it is not provided for, for it is not only for journalists. It concerns - and this is what the explanatory statement says - the whole of the citizens and not just the citizens who have the status of journalist. Finally, there are also, in my opinion, arrangements to supplement what has been before us in the previous months, namely the payment of retroactives to the judicial officers, which, if I am not mistaken, in October 2018, but the reduction of insurance contributions, which concerns lawyers, if I am not mistaken. I would therefore like to close by the provision of Chapter VI of the bill on the question of supplementary coroners in the ERC. We are all aware of the positive effect of the regulation, since this enables the assistant coroners of the ESS to carry out legal reports and their experts, without the citizens having to move from town to city to relatives who have been devastated. I now return to the issues relating to the necessary legislative improvements. As far as Chapter I of the bill is concerned, I think there is no question. It has been sufficiently clarified that we have the possibility of requesting an opinion to the European Court of Human Rights. The voluntary nature of this opinion has been sufficiently clarified. The concern raised by Mr Voridis, as regards the necessary specific justification in the case of rejection, does not need to be clarified because there is no specific reasoning. Since it is not foreseen, that means that it is not required. Now, with regard to the incorporation of a directive on the presumption of innocence, what is important and must be said is that the burden of infringing the presumption is essentially the same as the institution it represents or the office of the offender rather than the person itself. That is the important thing, in my view, of this provision. The insult acts as a representative of the state, which can therefore seek reliance on acts or omissions. Thus, under Article 105 of the Introductory Law of the Civil Code, in which I repeat that the provision relating to unlawful acts or omissions by the public bodies in the exercise of the public authority entrusted to them is to be regarded as compensation, unless the act or omission was in breach of a provision in favour of the general interest. Along with the public is responsible for all and the person responsible says the provision, without prejudice to the special provisions on the responsibility of the Ministers. That is what this provision says. There was also talk of the topics of the so-called 'demonstration burden'. This, in my opinion, has been made quite clear. When we say 'proof burden', transport from integration. ‘Evidence burden’ enters in introductory form. What is important - and I think this has been sufficiently clarified - is that it is not a particular provision, rather than a self-evident provision for what is happening in the procedure, which is expressly mentioned in the articles on the procedure in general and in interrogation. I am referring to Articles 239(2) and 274, namely that the investigation not only of the claims, as referred to in the articles in the proceedings, but also of the evidence invoked by the defendant - this search which, in any case, is an obligation of the judge - also relates to the control of the evidence brought during the criminal proceedings and not only to the questioning and the procedure. As far as the institution of the European Public Prosecutor is concerned, first of all - and this is the view of the Ministry - because of the competences, as described in the Rules of Procedure, but also because of the interconnection of the European Prosecutors with their mandates, their powers and duties are conferred on them by the duties of the Prosecutor. The general provision of the Rules of Procedure which allows for the appointment of a European Advocate-General and a judicial officer has been made for other judicial systems, which provide for alternate terms between judicial and public prosecutors. However, in order to avoid any misunderstanding or misinterpretation in this regard, with a legal improvement where the candidates' specialisation and qualifications for this post are described, the word 'in particular' will be added to the provision that this is an indicative list of qualifications to be taken into account in the examination of candidates, because clearly we all realise that European experience cannot be ignored, but certainly cannot be another commitment of the Supreme Judicial Council which will come to judge these candidates and make that choice. I think I quickly ran the whole bill. Specific reports were made on the issues of detention stores and the government's penitentiary policy, in particular by Mr Papatheodorou. There is a general policy framework in recent years, from 2015 to 2018, which, in our opinion, has yielded very significant results. These important results are also expressed in terms of the Council of Europe's conditions of detention in Greek detention stores. They are also numerically captured, if we want to say the figures on our country's convictions by the European Court of Human Rights in recent years as regards detention conditions, and we have also provided concrete information on what has been happening by 2015 and what has happened from 2015 to 2018. There is also a series of actions that are excellent, in terms of new detention shops, in terms of recruitment and competition, which are currently pending. It is expected to be completed, as the AACC informs us, by the end of March in terms of recruitment after many years of penitentiary staff. Of course, however, matters do not end there. They have to do with their specialty and the logistics issues, with specific actions of the Ministry, as regards strengthening structures and strengthening security in detention stores. Because we are all aware that the memorandum has not only gone beyond the whole of the country's social structures. It certainly influenced the way in which detention shops are organised and operated. The latest events, as we all understand, and to the extent that we can assess them, are events that are currently being investigated by Greek justice, I think they create a counter-protect in relation to what has been heard by you, Mr Papatheodorou. Prison isn't controlled by illegality. The prison area is, in fact, a sensitive area not only to which no one can rule out, but we all realise that there are occasional outbreaks, in fact, of unlawful acts, and most of all since now we all realise that the events which have taken place in the past one and a half months have not been randomly, but it seems - and this will be investigated - that they are criminal activities of a criminal organization which has acted or are in any case being blamed on behalf of those involved there and outside prisons. I would say that we are quite sceptical about the way in which we speak about the facts that are currently being investigated by Greek justice. We see that every day there is something new about the scale of the criminal activity of those currently accused in this case. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] I don't think we should be carrying out an indiscretion. I, of course, understand the concern of both the penitentiaries and their trade unions, who have free access to the Ministry and we are in constant talks with them. But, in my opinion - and I say 'practically' because in the committee and here, Mr Papatheodorou, you are adopting them and I have told you that I have a specific view - it is not good. My view is that such reports cannot be made, but at the same time they cannot have been denounced where they should be. And that is, I think, an obligation for all those who denounce specific incidents and, given the inquiries, prosecution and judicial investigation that are under way, they must appear and denounce either certain blackmails or threats or any incident that has come to light in a little abstract manner. It is good that they are specified and denounced where they have to. Mr President, in my time, if you wish, I have the floor for both ministerial and parliamentary amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u110	All right, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u111	The legislative amendments have not all been supported. So, if you want, we can hear the Members first, support them first and say what we are accepting at the end. I say to you that the 1953 general number and specialist 167 "to meet the urgent needs of the Korydallos Prison Hospital until the full coverage of the ESS" presented by Mrs Kozobol and the other MPs is accepted. With a general number of 1956 and a specialist of 170 by Mr Xydakis and Mr Paraskefopoulos, it can be accepted that this is an issue that Mr Panagiotopoulos had raised, if I am not mistaken to the committees, that is to say, "what happens if we have a decision that is exceptionally in breach of the presumption of innocence after the adoption of an irrevocable decision and what is the measure in addition to the right to redress with 105, which is taken into account in the process of granting grace". The general number 1957 and special 171 in relation to the change in the definition of ELGA correspondents for the proper functioning of the organisation is accepted. He was here and Mr Arachovitis, if necessary he could come back, to be explained by the presiding ministers, but the Minister for Rural Development is also at the disposal of this House in order to...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u112	From Mrs. Vanja.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u113	Mrs. Vanja will be backed up. In relation to the general number 1958 'on the removal of the deportees', because there is a special committee in the Ministry, where it is being processed and a little careful, we will also see it again with Mrs Kozobol, but we will also see it at the Ministry, so at the moment, we reject it in order to come back with the problem as a whole. Also rejected is the general number 1959 and Mr Carras's 173 specialist. Now, in relation to the legal systems, there is the recasting and replacement of the paragraph on the qualifications of the candidates, on the position of the European Public Prosecutor. There is a legislative system, which refers to the reference at the end of paragraph 1 of Article 15 of Law No 3226/2004, as replaced by paragraph 4 of Article 28, to the payment of the insurance contributions, which determines that the retained insurance contributions are paid by means of the legal associations to the ECA. In relation to Article 30, both with the portal and with the charge of 0.50 in the pre-concession note, we have already done a piece of legislation which provides: firstly, it is stated that this is the highest, that we will not be able to leave above 0.50 and that it can by ministerial decision, on a proposal from the Plenary Assembly, this amount will be reduced. I have contacted the lawyers' representative again, and I have no objections, if we want to change the amount from 0.50 to 0.40, because it seems that this amount is also sufficient to meet these needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u114	Let's change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u115	We can do this, then, to say a maximum of 0.40 and this figure can be reduced, following a recommendation from the plenary of the lawyers. There is also a legislative improvement, in terms of the functioning of the disciplinary boards of the legal associations and how the chairman of the legal boards is so responsible, but above all the possibility that the chairman of the disciplinary boards may initiate the disciplinary procedure. I told you the Legislative for Article 417. That's the legal stuff. I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute and thank you for your tolerance. There are the following ministerial amendments: There is a ministerial amendment, supported by Mr Polakis, which is the general number 1954, and a special number 168, 'to extend the term of office of the members of the Central Board of Health', which we are accepting. There is a ministerial amendment with a general number of 1955 and a special 169 of the Ministry of Justice regarding the independent appeal committees, which stipulates that the former chairs the committees. Co-signed by the Ministry of Migration Policy And the last of the Ministry of Justice is the general number 1960 and specialist 174. There are three provisions here, three paragraphs. One concerns a necessary correction to Article 35 of Law 4509/2017, where a numerical error had occurred and in this way there were malfunctions, as regards information system operators, those working on computers in the court. Thus, there was a provision in the first instance that there was no need to anticipate this position, that there should be more than one, that there should be two, and that there should not be other departments of the Athens courts. So we make this necessary correction. There is a provision on the implementation of the OSCE programme, in which I will come back in detail to my dentistry to how the specific work started in 2014 is progressing and is extremely important for the everyday life of both lawyers and citizens. There is also a provision on bakery contracts that were carried out a year ago, which were carried out normally, have no problems, but in order to issue the orders, because there has not been the necessary pre-contractual control, there is a risk that the figures will be charged to him. I will, however, give you concrete information on the implementation of these conventions and how these three amendments were implemented. I'll come back to my dentistry. After a long time and hard work, the Preparatory Committees on the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure have now been completed and delivered to us. The next step is the debate on these two drafts, both within the collective governmental bodies and with representatives of all the parliamentary groups, before being placed in public consultation within the next month at the latest. This debate with all the parties will be needed, because we all realise that such a reform, which has to do with the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, should, in my opinion, enjoy the greatest possible assembly with a given one that we all understand, that the provisions of the first to the last article are photographic. I would like to say that you realise that such a reform relating to the Criminal Code relates to all pending trials in all pending cases. It is a very large reform that, I think, needs the necessary political courage and the necessary political maturity in order to lead to such a reform. I am not very optimistic about the climate of consensus which should prevail in this debate. But I think it is worth it for all of us to take this reform after all these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Evangelos Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with the positive ones from the ratification of Protocol No 3. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the work he has put into it. The Protocol has entered into force and has already entered into force in the highest courts of Member States of the European Convention on Human Rights, first the French cancellation, the French Marios Ice, the Cour de Cassation, to ask similar questions, in order for the plenary to deliver an opinion, the large part of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg, on matters of enormous interest. The first case concerns an extremely complex issue of bioethics and the harmonisation of French legislation and the French constitution with the European Convention on Human Rights. It is very important that Greece with a delay in ratifying the 16th Protocol and it is very important that our three highest courts and the highest special court can now ask similar questions to the European Court of Human Rights, asking for an opinion on the questions of principles, namely the interpretation of specific provisions of the Convention and the Additional Protocols, in order to avoid individual appeals, which, if they prosper and lead to a judgment of the court indictment for the country, create huge problems of lifting the res judicata and applying exceptional means which are now provided for in all branches and which must be respected by Greek courts, which unfortunately do not care or avoid respecting their obligation, in particular Marios Ice, as has been seen in some very critical cases so far. The great change, however, under Protocol 16, is to extend the reproach of the European Court of Human Rights. Because it is now clear that the res judicata produced by the court - and hence the obligation of the Member States to comply with the case-law of the Court - is not limited to decisions in which each State is a party - and therefore has an express obligation under the convention to carry out this judgment - but its obligation extends to the findings of the case-law. This is the difference between the res interpretata in relation to the res judicata of the contract. This is a very great debate at the level of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, at the level of the parliamentary assembly, but especially at the level of the Committee of Ministers. As the House knows, I have a personal involvement in these matters as rapporteur for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in the implementation of the judgments of the Court of Justice in forty-seven countries - members of the Council of Europe. It is my firm position that the obligation of the Member States, as well as the obligation of the Member States, is a matter for the judgments in which the States are not in proceedings, but we must avoid this constant recycling of the same issues before the court. The repetition of the same legal issues and the same cases, and what is happening with Protocol 16, will help very much, although, of course, we all understand that this is how another procedural channel is introduced for the concentration of judicial control, the constitutionality of their laws and their compatibility with international law in this regard with the European Convention on Human Rights. In Greece we may not have a centralised system of control of constitutionality, with a constitutional court, but we have a pilot trial, we have direct introduction of matters in the plenary session of the Council of State and in many other courts, we have various old mechanisms such as an appeal for law and, of course, we have the preliminary questions before the Court of Justice of the European Union and now the request for an opinion before the European Court of Human Rights. We therefore have additional evidence of control in the hands of the Supreme Courts, and through the supreme courts of the international courts which control the national legal order and the national constitution. So it seems to me how closely the limits of the revised legislature are in the ongoing review process, especially in the area of international protection of individual and group rights, even of so-called passive or social rights, where they are protected either by European law or by the European Convention on Human Rights, indirectly, through the protection of defence rights. This is therefore a very important positive development. It is also important that the Minister referred previously to the situation in the penitentiary system. Unfortunately, the situation is getting worse. This chain of murder, acts of violence, this emergence of the imprisonment of an organised crime headquarters is something that must concern us more systematically and more strongly with the findings of the last report by the Council of Europe Committee on the Prevention of Torture of the CPT. We have all seen the report, we have seen the Ministers' replies, which will allow me to say that they are bureaucratic, because they have the necessary political courage rather than in a few cases. With the care and the President of this House, this report of the Committee on the Prevention of Torture - which is a very important committee of the Council of Europe - must be introduced into a joint meeting of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and the committee set up for the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Justice in Human Rights. This is urgent and must be done. The other very important development is the presumption of innocence, namely the incorporation of Directive 2016/343 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which makes significant changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure. At first when I saw on television broadcasting Mr Polakis present and asked the ministerial seats, I assumed that the Minister of Justice called on Mr Polakis as a laboratory example of a systematic violation of the presumption of innocence. [[Laughing - applause from the wings of the New Democracy and the Democratic Alliance]] It systematically infringes the European Union Directive and the relevant provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which has been in force since 2010, Article 171 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Since the procedural possibility of claiming compensation is now introduced under the civil liability provisions, the Minister of Justice has brought here a model of perpetrator of such infringements, which leads to a public convicted of damages. Moreover - and this is the most important - his actions and his behaviour when he is targeting characters when he proclaims prosecuting public prosecutors, when he is revealed that he is aware of the protected witnesses and all the elements of the case-file in collaboration with some who are professionally aware of them - and he must be investigated and investigated what their sources are - so when he does all of this, he violates Article 171 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and therefore leads to absolute nullity of the relevant procedure and procedure and the main procedure. So I say to you, Minister of Justice, that while you brought him with this good purpose, to show him as an example of violating the presumption of innocence, he proceeded with confessions beyond his ministerial duties concerning the violation of Article 370a of the Criminal Code to the extent of a crime, which is also self-evident in relation to yesterday's actions of publicity, and now we have the minutes of the House as corpus delicti, as proof of the confession and the initiation of the public prosecutor's inquiry. I would ask the President of Parliament and the President-in-Office to forward to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay and the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office the minutes of today's sitting, which also constitute an absolute consensus. [[Applause from the wings of the New Democracy and the Democratic Alliance]] Because Mr Paulakis has not made use of either the right of silence or the right of non-injuriousness, because he has not understood the importance of these very important criminal, cultural conquests for the rule of law, for the protection of judicial independence, for the protection of someone who is accused and who must, of course, be protected by the explicit introduction of the presumption of innocence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would, however, like to urge the Minister of Justice, who seems well-advanced, now that the presumption of innocence is clearly and correctly introduced into the Code of Criminal Procedure with Article 72A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, is correct. In other words, it is not sufficient to state ‘the suspected defendants are presumed innocent until their guilt is established in accordance with the law’, but this must be replaced by ‘until irrevocably sentenced’. For how will their guilt be proved according to the law to what extent and how? This must be certified, registered by a judicial decision which, according to the text of the directive, must be final, must be irreversible on the basis of Greek terminology. It is not sufficient for the decision to be final or final. It is also a very proper and balanced wording of Article 77A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, our own investigation system with which the criminal trial is conducted, and based on the institutional role of the prosecutor who does not represent the charge but the law, how, of course, both the judges and the prosecutors must investigate the evidence either for conviction or for acquittal. The condemnation must be sought, not for acquittal, because innocence arises from the presumption of innocence. This, of course, works on its own initiative, with the defendant being able to remain silent, and, of course, this is even about the accused's self-proclaiming claims. These are of great importance to expressly and legally impeccablely, because anyway it is also a way of internationally-controlled, since we are transposing and incorporating a directive of the European Union. Of course none of this will work. It will not work the presumption of innocence when the Prime Minister himself violates it with enthusiasm, on occasion, with full consciousness of what he is doing in this House, when he refers not only to political opponents in previous governments but also to ordinary citizens who may be burdened with possible criminal acts, but who are presumed innocent and must be respected as such and, above all, the presumption of their innocence must be respected. When a government does not have a sense of discrimination of powers and independence of justice, when it considers that justice is an instrument of justice through specific - very few - public prosecutors, mainly, but also judicial officers, when there are ministers - we have seen an example - that they think have the right to stumble against justice, to come by shaking the sword of the public prosecutor's authority, which they have obscured by violating and destroying fundamental institutions and principles of the culture, then few things can be done by the law. And, above all, it must have been recorded in the Minutes - because we have a future before us and will all need the presumption of innocence, those who do not now realize the presumption of innocence - that the main provision which protects the presumption is not the one that can claim compensation, but the one which leads to the absolute nullity of the procedure and the procedure, namely Article 171 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Because everything else comes after, and even the grace I saw put forward by two former government ministers. The fact that this should also be taken into account in the possible opinion of the Harita Council, and this is a measure which is complementary, complementary, retarded, inadequate. The main measure - and I would ask you to unite this, Mr Minister, with your express statement in the Minutes - is Article 171 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In other words, everyone should, when these issues are being discussed, have a sense of both the past and the future and try to come out of their specific role and move the rule of law on the basis of the protection of democratic institutions. That, unfortunately, is very difficult, and that is why I see that it is not possible. Those who don't do it, think about it again, because that can have very serious consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u118	So do we. Mr. Giolas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, how will the situation be settled with the parliamentary representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u120	There has been no request so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u121	I have asked, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u122	The demands are respected, Mr Javarra, as long as they are made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u123	So I formulate it and arrange for us to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u124	It is a fascinating form, in fact.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u125	To be understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u126	Be well. Mr. Gillola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to go through the incidents, but, unfortunately, I see the unrepentant obsession of some toastfulness, speculation and exaggeration of even indirect threats to allegedly raw intervention by the Government in the institutions of justice. They maintain it daily with various objects in constant episodes, to make some digestible. We're not gonna do the favor of continuing the same pattern. I would like to say that we SYRIZA MPs, the MPs who support the government, have absolute confidence in the independence of justice, which we serve and we fully recognise, as I have said. The same applies from the point of view of the current and current ministers, in a way that, in our view, does not raise any objections. On the contrary, as has been said, we, with a laborious effort, with friendly, quiet and not so deafening, are trying to strengthen justice, trying to equip it to do its job effectively and to operate the right system in our country. Such an abrupt of this effort is also this draft law, which must be underlined - in its first four chapters, it includes positive arrangements for the institutional shielding of our national law on the basis of the European legislative framework - protocols that have been sufficiently analysed by the Minister. The bill came to alleviate the stakeholders. It was also described by the rapporteur himself as an ambitious attempt to rationalise the system. By speeding up, I would like to dwell on Chapter I, which refers to the ratification of the ECHR Protocol 16, in the fact that the possibility is now being activated, the highest courts in our country to submit requests for opinions to the European Court of Human Rights. This means that the interpretation and application of the rights and freedoms enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights is extended and facilitated. Chapter II, which incorporates the directive of the European Parliament, contributes to strengthening the principles of legal certainty, citizens' confidence and the consolidation of the European acquis. In particular, the rights of suspects, accused persons and sentenced persons shall be explicitly and unambiguously safeguarded in the light of the way in which the European Arrest Warrant is implemented. Chapter C contains European provisions on the extradition of the European Arrest Warrant, which is also in the spirit of guaranteeing the rights of wanted persons and the principle of mutual recognition of decisions, issued in the absence of the person concerned. Chapter IV introduces the institution of the Greek European Prosecutor, as established by a regulation of the European Union of 2017, which, among other things, will assist in the fight against economic crime and crimes against corruption and fraud, which have been so tempted for over a decade. As I pointed out at the outset, Chapter V and Chapter F deal with issues of everyday life, strengthening and facilitating the functioning of justice. The positions of the judiciary are increasing by eight in total. It is facilitated to cover the costs of the transition of judges, judges and judicial officers to carry out their service in transition. The democratic procedures shall be laid down in the rules on the organisation and functioning of the courts of all grades by excluding the right to intervene of the Supreme Court in the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Courts, adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. All the above arrangements were consistent requests, moreover, by the representatives of the judiciary and adopted through this draft law. In addition, consideration shall be given to the structure of the Financial Prosecutor and the Prosecutor of Corruption in order to allow the secondment of personnel to the first, when they require work of high and qualified expertise. Very important of the other articles of the bill is Article 28, which strengthens the institution of "legal assistance", a valuable tool for serving the lower economic sections which do not have the financial capacity to bear the costs of legal proceedings. In particular, lawyers designated by that institution no longer need to pay their own costs for cases. The institution, of course, is also adopted in cases of consensual divorce before a notary. With these provisions, the bill makes an extremely positive step towards equal access to justice for all citizens, making it easier, as I have said, for weaker economic fellow citizens. Also by introducing a relatively small charge of 40 or 50 minutes, as the Minister has said, which was in consultation with the plenary of the presidents of the associations, the aim of this bill is to broaden and refine the system of electronic justice, such an extremely useful tool that can help everyday life not only of lawyers and judges but also of citizens. We also have electronic signature, electronic filing of documents, electronic case tracking, computer version of each lawyer's personal computer, electronic exhibits and pins, online services of clubs with a keyboard press. All of these are valuable aids, simplified and brief procedures for the fighting lawyer and therefore for the citizens who have recourse to justice. The provision of Article 42 in order to provide insurance cover for persons providing social services as a measure for the creation of the penalty or a reform measure is particularly necessary. Furthermore, this draft law amends, as has been said, the provision of the relevant Article 417 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the activation of the self-declaration procedure for offences of exaltation, defamation and slandering defamation by the press. Alongside avoidance of the self-defense process, an important step is achieved in the direction of armoring the press itself and its functions. In conclusion, Chapter F shows significant changes in the functioning of the penitentiary system, with the most important equation in measuring working days in rural prisons, which has so far not been uniform and harmonized entirely. Many, but simple and necessary reforms are expected to take place in the functioning and administration of justice with the draft legislation being passed. It has rightly been said that it is a spiral of dispersal, but according to structured legislative provisions, which may not resolve or correct all the imperfections of the system, but which are obviously distorted, small but necessary reform areas are introduced and the daily lives of the citizens are ultimately simplified and not only those who assist and assist justice and the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th New Ionian High School of Volos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Javarras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think we all agree today, ladies and gentlemen, that with the bill we are discussing and we will shortly be voting on, the Greek state incorporates in the most official way - that is, through the state's legislative function - a series of arrangements which make us a rule of law at European level. Because, in fact, with these arrangements, the state is committed to having a civilized attitude in the way in which it treats the suspect or accused citizen at every stage of the procedure, starting from the exercise of the criminal prosecution to the extradition process, but in any case - I agree with Mr Venizelos and you should see this, Minister - an irrevocable judicial decision. However, what we should have in mind when discussing these issues is that a practice is now being formalised, which the majority of the Greek courts have formulated and followed up. In other words, the right not to self-determination of the defendant or the suspect, the right to silence the suspect or the accused, and to respect the presumption of innocence, are obligations arising from the Constitution, are imposed by Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights and stem from a number of official charters of declarations of individual and civil rights. And finally, Greece today with this bill includes them within the procedural arsenal offered to these citizens, who at some point in their lives are involved with the mechanisms of criminal prosecution or have legal adventures in the criminal courts. I believe, however, that these arrangements, once incorporated in the specific way set out in the bill in Article 7 and Article 8, should not be of a mere declaratory nature. They should be able to be effective in protecting the rights to which they refer. And here you will allow me, Minister, to comment on Article 7 and Article 8. Indeed - and many Members have said so - on the basis of the system of indictment which applies and on the basis of the system of inquiry in criminal proceedings, the burden of proof as a whole is borne by the acceding authority. And also the burden of collecting evidence of guilt or in favour of the defendant's dismissal is borne by the investigating judicial authorities. I therefore believe that it is not a successful expression - and our rapporteur, Mr Panayotopoulos, has stressed it - that the burden of proving the allegations relied on and raised by the defendant in his apology, as well as the evidence which suggests that these claims are well founded, has them in the court. It is simply necessary to strengthen the obligation of both the public prosecutor and the investigating authorities and the courts in the end to collect the evidence which will form the logical and legal basis of the defendant's guilt. Now I come to Article 8. Article 8 gives the impression that there is a lenient treatment for representatives of the public authorities who, through public declarations, are insulting the presumption of innocence. Why? For civil liability is established on the basis of Article 105 of the Introductory Law of the Civil Code. Here, in other words, the legislator considers - and that is what you suggest - that if any of the state officials in the exercise of public authority violates the presumption of the innocence of a suspect or accused person, the responsibility lies with the State. I think that this regulation is unfortunate. And, of course, it is more unfortunate to establish a right to bring an action before the courts concerned by the suspect or accused, with the obligation to claim compensation but after claiming damages. And this damage should be in connection with Article 914 of the Civil Code in relation to a causal link with a statement made by the representative of the public authority. I think, therefore, - and I put it at your discretion, Minister - that it should probably be followed here - as the Scientific Committee of Parliament suggests - the solution that has been and operates in cases where we have exceeded the reasonable length of the trial in the political and administrative courts. Because there now fair compensation is, regardless of damage, the sanction that the legislator of a ruled state must impose on any state official who violates this self-evident obligation which respects the presumption of innocence. Because otherwise the provision of Law 3904/2010, which - as has been said quite rightly - created a flaw in the validity of the procedure, if there were to be a similar declaration from an official State official's lips, then even if there is no parallel provision of this kind of sanction and compensation to the responsible person of this infringement, then, in fact, the specific initiative that is being taken today, which we welcome in the way I have mentioned, will remain without effective ratification. I would also like to point out another thing: it is indeed a case that Mr Paulakis is a systematic and repeated violation of the presumption of innocence, against all those who have had the misfortune to pass through his lips, whether they are politicians or are state officials. However, what we are today legislating must also be a feeling that, through this legislation, we are involved in a broader context of cultural values and principles, the first thing that they recognize and respect, is the dignity of man, as recognised by Article 2 of the Constitution and the dignity of man and citizen as established by the great conquests that we had in the French Revolution, and which are today the content of the so-called 'ideological project of Enlightenment'. Why, otherwise, can we see the Prime Minister or Ministers from this Step, or on the occasion of other public statements, turning against citizens, against politicians, and prejudicing themselves with their court judgments or accusing courts, when the decisions they make do not meet the expectations they have made in their own party, their friends, their partners? This is, indeed, a disease in public life, which we must cure. That is why I insist that the penalty to be imposed on the provision of Article 8 should be imposed regardless of damage, not to say that it should apply or be introduced as a specific offence for both the state official in a government position and for the State official in a judicial capacity. For him, therefore, who violates the presumption of innocence by public declarations or by acts and actions, such treatment should also be treated. Many times it has happened to me in the chambers of the courts, to be happy to hear presidents of the formations and compositions of criminal courts, to respect the defendant in an impeccable way, to speak to him in the plural, to explain to him what his rights are, and often to tolerate pre-contrasts from accused persons against their face. But there are times when, in higher courts - mainly in appeals - there are cases where this right is abused by judges and prosecutors, who obviously do not participate in this project of values and ideas for us both in the process of European integration and in the fact that Greece is one of the main members of the Council of Europe, the international organisation, namely, that which is the depositary and the guarantor of the implementation of the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights. And one last. In Article 18(2)(a) I would like to make a comment, Minister. Amongst the qualifications that the Prosecutor, the Greek European Public Prosecutor, must have, among other things, - item (a) - a guarantee of independence. I think that you should remove this because, in fact, if the Minister of Justice needs a guarantee, to convince him that a judicial officer who, under the Constitution, has the privilege and institutional guarantee of independence, must prove it, then the suspicion you display in the public prosecutor's office, I think it is an example of a suspicion that we should not accept in this Chamber. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, can I have the floor for half a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u132	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u133	Because the legislators were distributed, in 0,40 we declare it orally in order to record them in the Minutes. We'll see it in the control we'll do in the gut and body. There is also one piece of legislation, which has to do with the removal of Article 22 on referral back to the Code of Justice. Since the Rules of Procedure have been tabled to plenary sessions, and these plenary sessions on all the provisions, in contact with the Presidents of the Supreme Court, because they will rule on all the provisions, it is right, despite the fact that the rules are positive - and the associations have welcomed this provision - that the other articles are withdrawn and renumbered, in order to see what they are going to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, I want to be extremely honest. You are noble and you are creating a climate of good and good discussion in the Chamber. And I would like to try to return this to you, despite the fact that we are in a day, which would expect that I, in general, like trouble, would make a very big fuss. But I would like to ask you a few questions and if you would be kind enough to answer me, it would be very interesting to have a straightforward answer. Because here we are Parliament. We are not just a group that is discussing, but politicians who are taking a stand on specific issues and show the Greek people what we think should be done. Article 7 as regards the presumption of innocence. "The suspects or accused persons are presumed innocent until their guilt is established in accordance with the law. The suspect or accused person shall have the right to bring an action for damages before the competent court, in accordance with Articles 105 and 106 of the Civil Code instituting a damage suffered as a result of a breach of his presumption of innocence by statements of public authorities, which took place at any stage of the proceedings before the adoption of the judgment in A’ or B’, which refer directly to the pending criminal proceedings and urge the public to believe his guilt...’ - I stress or urge the public to believe in his guilt - ‘whether they make an assessment of the facts, prejudicial to the judgment in the case’. Exquisitely praiseworthy. Bravo! He had to come to Greece. He came late. It doesn't matter. The question now, Minister, and I would like your attention, is this: there is a minister who brings law, which his law wants not to be observed. Or first, does the Minister who brings a law defend him? Two seats side by side, just forty minutes, Mr. Paulakis said the phrase for Mr. Yiannis Stournaras and his wife "because Mr. Stournaras and his wife are involved in the scandal of "NOVARTIS" and CEDEFOP and will be doomed". One second! Minister, I want you in good faith to answer me, because we're not here to fight, we're here to figure out what we're doing in here. You're bringing us a wonderful law. We all say it is amazing, that we will vote for him and good, that it marks a stronger quality of rule of law in Greece. But at the time when we vote for him, in the process that you stood up and defended your law, two seats parallel to one of your colleagues for two Greek citizens in an ongoing process where Mr Stournaras and I are investigating "NOVARTIS" and his wife for the CEDEFOP, who is still in the process, the Minister for Health - that is, according to your law, a public authority - has rushed to say that "he is involved and will be condemned". It's Mr. Polakis' exact words.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u136	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u137	Hey, how'd he not say? What did he say? Do you want to see it back in the Minutes? He said so, I watched it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u138	He's involved, he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u139	He's intruding, all right. And he's gonna be convicted, he said. He's a defendant and he's involved. Minister, at that time, honestly tell me, you did not feel the need you, Kaloger, the noble - I stress it, stress the character you have, that he is noble - to say: 'One minute, you guys, here we are discussing the exact way forward. If Mr Stournaras or Mrs Stournaras or Mr Georgiadis or Mr Venizelos or whoever is guilty, he will be judged in court. When judged in the courts, here we are, we come." Is it possible to allow both at the same time? Excuse me, Minister, but at the same time both can't be done. And you will also allow me a question on staff, which I really want you to answer, because I asked Mr Vorides and he did not have to answer. I, Adonis Georgiadis, have accepted mainly from Mr Polakis - I will not say about other ministers, although it has also been done by others, so that I do not forget them, but let me say about Mr Polakis, the most obvious example - to date about four hundred Facebook reports, 'that I am guilty, that I have to go to jail in strips of suits, that I have had them from the CEDEFOP, from 'NOVARTIS'. Four hundred reports. I have one question, Minister, and I would ask you to answer it: do I have to go to the state and get compensation, on the basis of the article you have brought, for what Mr Paulakis has said so far, or does he have to say more than four hundred in front of me, to get compensation?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u140	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u142	'No', says Mr. Javarras. "Yes," says Mr. Lappas. I would very much like you to explain that to me. If I am right, thank you! You made a good gift to my children, I'll get from the Greek State a huge compensation only with Facebook posts. Please add that we can go backwards, don't get any misunderstandings in court. Add it, because since I've lost this "fits" from "NOVARTIS" and I can't find it where I've hidden it, at least to get this money to study our children! So, since you've blamed me for blaming me for two years on all channels, radios, parliament, Facebook, Twitter, at least to exercise my legitimate rights under the nice law you bring, not to go lost. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u143	He won't be lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u144	Well, he'll say more, I'm sure, he won't hold up. Okay, I'm saying this now, but I have no doubt she'll say any more. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, why? All right, having political clashes is in the game. I, for example, have had huge conflicts with Mr Lappa in the Health Committee of Inquiry. We haven't crossed the line. I have to recognize that, I want to be fair. It was a reasonable conflict between two people representing different political spaces and defending their positions. No problem in doing this. To blame each other, however, even for the housing loan it took, before a Member of Parliament comes out, if you'll excuse me, children, but these are not serious things. Be serious now. These are not serious things, Mr. Contony.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u145	Why are you telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u146	I call it rhetoric, sympathy, not as a charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u147	Why are you telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u148	Not as a charge. I'm withdrawing it from sympathy. So, how do you guys do everything? We cannot, Minister, do everything. I want to close with this: ladies and gentlemen, I am not the most sympathetic to you as a Member. It's obvious. But I recognize that many of you are genuine ideologists and what you said you believed and fought for your ideas. I'm on the right, you on the left. No objections. But honestly, for example, Mr. Dousinas, a decent man, a university professor, dreamed of becoming a MP to see a country, as the Greek people today read, where the Minister of Defence sent a message to the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the cell phone saying "I will melt you, a punk, and I will send you the 25 million Soros to the prosecutor." And the Prime Minister who has known these since made the fool so he doesn't lose the government. And the other Minister comes to explain to the House and says 'yes, that's the mot a mot again, but I didn't write him.' He says Mr. Vaxevanis wrote him. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. Watch what Mr. Paulakis said. "This is the dialogue published, but I did not write it." He says Mr. Vaxevanis wrote it. He's the one who's done the felony against Mr. Polakis. Or the "Documento" that published the dialogue that either made the registration during Mr. Paulakis, so Vaxvanis or Paulakis must go to prison to Vaxevanis, so Paulakis must go to jail. It's not both. It's one of the two! Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you very well: did you dream about Greece? Did you fight for Greece for your youth? For the ministers who speak with messages of this phrase to see this Greek people of decline? I am so sorry, but I do not believe you have dreamed of this Greece - I honestly say it - nor did we dream of this Greece. And it's definitely not that Greece that we deserve. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u149	Thank you. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we all remember, the entire Greek people that, before 2015, SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras personally had played an active part in the election. The first was "strengthen the memorials and abolished by an article and a law of every Memorandum". The second was 'ethical in politics and justice'. The third was 'close with the old'. In 2015 he managed to win the elections he then gave the Greek people the opportunity to experience who SYRIZA really is, who is Mr. Tsipras. After choosing to collide - supposedly - instead of negotiating and achieving more than we had achieved, they were mutated by an antimony in a supranational, turned 63% of the "no" into a slave "yes", they loaded the country with the third unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum, with 86 billion dollars of loan, with 24 billion extra measures unbavourable and a total of 100 billion losses for the economy. The whole society continues to experience the overtaxation and daily poverty of small and medium-sized enterprises, as demonstrated by the constant growing number of CRL beneficiaries and lead them to the poverty trap they have set up with this institution. The public debt, the same time, in just two years, amounted to 335 billion. The income of the employees according to the ‘ERGAN’ is reduced. Agricultural income in 2018 decreased, something unprecedented. Unemployment maintains its hard core. And the government is playing with numbers, no matter what the unemployed and their families are. The biggest problem all creative people experience and especially young people are a grid of barriers to creation and development. Instead of adopting the ELLAD and economic recovery and social justice policies proposed by the Change Movement, the Tsipras Government continues to exaggerate the battle of farmers, small entrepreneurs and professionals to create a fund, which is managed on full customer terms. At the same time, instead of ending on 20 August the commitments made by the country with the third unjustified memorandum, it signed new commitments with high surpluses by 2060 and the transfer of national property for nine nine years. But let's see if in the field of morality, justice did well. What the Prime Minister said is true: 'We are liars, but not thieves'? These are some issues that are the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and we need to see what is going on with them. Firstly, I tried to give Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Spirtzi EUR 650,000,000 with the extension of a contract for the "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport. Instead of becoming a public tender, the European Commission, of course, managed to save the EUR 650,000, 000, by putting it as a minimum. Secondly, the most serious complaints between two Ministers, which took place in the presence of Mr Tsipras at the Ministerial Council, for the funding of EUR 50 000 000 from Soros and their management. Also heavy charges and complaints about the former Minister Mr Kotzia's request to check the secret funds of the Defence and Home Affairs Ministers, as well as of the EEA. Thirdly, the triumph of the Triumph of Goods with the graceful concessions after the competition by Mr Spirtzi, who, as many say, benefited many millions of euros. Fourthly, PPC’s scandalous acquisition of Vice-President Zaev’s overcompensated private company in FYROM, and at a time when the Ambassadors’ agreement was under way, was being concluded. Fifthly, the injurious agreement to grant 50% of PPC's clientele to private companies without substantially consideration. Sixth, protection and graceful acts and methods of six Drasakis Ministers, Flamouraris, Stathakis, Papa, Tsakalotou and Kalogeros in favour of Mr Laurentiadis, so that he does not pay the sum of EUR 115,000 in debt to the PDP. Seventh, triangular scandal virtually DPA - Laurentiadis - Petsite. The Manolis of Maximus. Eighth, the dark management of 1,600,000 euros, according to complaints from SYRIZA Ministry of Migration Policy, Buddour, Ilioopoulos, etc. The European Agency, known as OLAF, is investigating two of the cases of fraud of EUR 100,000. Ninth, 166,000 euros, the damage suffered by the Greek State by the non-invoicing of medicines in the first half of 2015. Tenth, TRAINOSE sold 45,000 euros instead of the sum of 300,000,000 euros that Mr Stathakis had appreciated. Eleventh, the incubator scandal of EUR 31,000,000 for digital agriculture or the 'big trick of Mr Papa', as the acquaintances say. Twelfth, scandalous works divisions and direct awards such as Tower - Patras, etc. Thirteenth, ‘SYRIZA Bank’. Fourthly, the scandal of selling missiles in Saudi Arabia. Fifteenth, the graceful arrangements for smuggling and the amendments to delete fines of EUR 10 million. Sixteenth, the secret from the House of the case of amendments to the conventions and the receipt of the C4I, which damaged the country EUR 147,000, according to a decision of the Board of Appeal in 2015. "To finish with the old," he also said and proved to be not only copying the bad texts of the old political system, he also copys the methods of the palace. After the merger with the far right of ANELs, now in their hearts, we have seen a lot of laughing the announcement that he wants to build a progressive front. And Thanos Moratis said, Mr. Konstantopoulos, if you did not hear him, that "we will fight against the extreme right". But he didn't tell us which extreme right, he meant. The one that's inside SYRIZA or the one that's outside? Because for the outside, we didn't see him do anything! [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] The cheap takeovers - and I shall end, Mr President - from the extreme right to the left cannot block the support of the democratic world in PASOK and the Change Movement, but neither can they escape Mr Tsipras from the upcoming defeat that will be overwhelming.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u151	Mrs. Kozobol from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the previous colleague, who came from the Stephen, was very enlightening about the bill we are debating today. He did not say a single word about the bill, not a single word. Unfortunately, while we are discussing a very nice bill today and very positively in common, it is wrong. The bodies welcomed it, almost all of the institutions welcomed it, but those of the MPs placed it on the bill considered it positive for the majority of them and said they would vote for most of the articles. It's a shame to be wronged that way. I just want to say - I will not comment on anything from the previous ones, from what the honourable Member just said that came down - and I can only confirm - the hypocrisy of some of those who have spoken today. That is to say, they bring back a very big crime to a phone dialogue that leaked between the Deputy Minister, Mr. Polakis. I don't know what's happened, I don't know if it's true, I don't know who published him, what happened. And if any criminal offence has actually been committed, the blame must be placed on them. I am not going to talk about this, but I will only remind you how many times the National Delegation has dealt with some telephone conversations that we have never learned how they were released. I would remind you that all the instruments of parliamentary control have been exhausted, questions have been asked, questions have been raised, the Committee on Institutions, Parliament has dealt with certain telephone calls that we have never learned - nor has anyone been required to say - how they were released. It is really unfair in this bill to use two meters and two stations and it is really a great hypocrisy. I will not be tempted, I will focus on the bill, which is really very positive and focuses on the rights of the defendant, human rights, the introduction of rules on the immunity of the presumption of innocence and lays down the provisions on the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor. I will focus, however, on the fact that much has been said about this part that I mentioned, in the last two chapters, in Chapter V and Chapter F, where matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and matters of the penitentiary system are dealt with. With regard to Chapter IV, the principle of self-government of the courts based on the constitutional principle of separation of functions is reinforced. In order to speed up the administration of justice, the organic positions of public prosecutors of civil and criminal law as a whole will be increased from 1-2-2019 to 8. Important practical issues are being addressed for the Office of the Prosecutor of Economic Crime by experts, with a view to the proper and effective functioning of this office. There are issues of health interest in prisons being resolved, the procedure to cover costs of the movement of judges - a chronic problem - and the secretaries of the courts for meetings in their transitional seats is being regulated. The legislative framework for the registration of decisions and parliaments in the integrated criminal policy and criminal justice management system shall be updated, which shall be a new project in the field of electronic justice. Very important are the provisions that improve the provision of legal aid to low-income citizens and also regulate the more rapid liquidation and remuneration of the lawyer. I would like to stress here that the costs of a consensual divorce are now included, which is not a procedure before the court, but a notary. There is also a provision for compensation for the long-term trials by the single compensation body, the FIFG, while abolishing what has been done so far, for the additional compensation to be requested by way of a particular opinion from the Legal Board of State and after a complex procedure and, of course, a delay. Also, the time of VAT return is related to the time when the remuneration is collected through legal aid. Interventions are being made to improve administrative support and information and communications technologies both in the courts of the country and in the system put to the service of lawyers through lawyers. Very important is the provision by which insurance is provided against accident risk to convicted workers who provide social benefits as a means of establishing the penalty. It is a year-old request, as public work was introduced twenty years ago as an alternative to the creation of the sentence, but there was this gap in the insurance cover of the person who provided it. In view of the strengthening of this measure, and as an autonomous penalty, and through the new Criminal Code, this provision is necessary. A chronic demand mainly for journalists also resolves the provision of Article 33, as the process of self-sacrificing offences, slandering by press is abolished. Of course that is the rule, but there are exceptional cases. I come to the last chapter, to the provisions concerning the functioning of the penitentiary system. I would once again like to stress, for some who are blind, the steps taken in this area. And that's not what anyone says to bless his beards, to say what that government did. It results from specific reports by the Council of Europe, the CTP and the one published today and mentioned by Mr Venizelos. In the part mentioned at the Korydalos Psychiatric Center - only this is mentioned in relation to the incarceration areas - it also praises what has been done and reminds you that it had been legislated since 2007 by Mr. Dendia, that is, the health services to join the ESS. It is relevant - so that I do not come back - and an amendment which is purely technical in nature, which I endorse, with which, until the urgent needs of the National Health System to medical and nursing staff are met, the system that has been in place so far, i.e. doctors visiting the Ministry of Justice, remains in force. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, I'll be done, Mr. President. So let me say that the provisions concerning the functioning of the penitentiary system extend the measure of benefiting workers to more units such as bakery and pastry in the field of agricultural prisons. The regulation brings the workers of bakery and rural prisons to an equilibrium of the central storage of prison material and the agri-foodstuffs units. The role of rural prisons is thus promoted by providing incentives for the work and education of detainees. I cannot comment on the important step taken in carrying out legal actions, because I am elected to a district based in an appeals court - where only there is provision for the conduct of legal proceedings - but throughout the Peloponnese there is no legal centre in Kalamata. It was a macabre real spectacle that reminds of "Anytime in Anatolia", with all the mental suffering suffered by relatives, a corpse traveling for his medical examination in other cities and delaying the burial process two days and perhaps more. So since there have been medical assistants, specializing in this forensic doctor and serving in public hospitals - they have been appointed over the last three years - they must be able to carry out forensics. With regard to the amendment I tabled, which was not accepted by the Minister, I really do agree with you that we should come back and see it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, too. Mrs Christophilopoulou, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are living a particular theater of irrationality. For, Minister, while we are discussing a bill of which many provisions are particularly positive - and our rapporteur, Mr Papatheodorou, said them more extensively, both in the committees and today in the House - and, in fact, in the very best way, the explicit presumption of innocence and the right of non-incrimination is perhaps one of the most important and positive of the bill - I will return to the bill to the end of my speech - this debate is being held, and in the political system we are actually talking about scenes in Far West. We are not just talking about circumvention of any presumption of innocence, but about optional targetings depending on how Mr Tsipras and his Government are concerned. What have we seen and what are we seeing these days, ladies and gentlemen? We see two former prime ministers of this SYRIZA - ANEL Government - and today SYRIZA, a few ANELs and a little from PASOK dialects - the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence, in a fight of interdependence. They blackmail each other, Mr. Kotzias resorted to the courts today with press reports, they come in the light of the publicity of one's SMS against the other with words of buying, vulgar expressions, and these two ministers held one of the most important portfolios of this government. This work is a declining, rotting project. We know it's over, that it's the last days of Pompeii. But we have to put an impediment into this whole process. We have just seen reports, ladies and gentlemen, that it has prompted Maximus to support Mr Polakis - listen, listen! - As if what has been distributed today between the central banker, Mr Stournara and one of the government ministers, Mr Polakis, it is a question of seeing who we are and who we are going to leave. Because here, too, we are violating everything, every concept of law, every concept of fairness, every concept of the rule of law of European dimensions and the Parliamentary Republic, essential, institutional, which is indeed capable of serving justice and the common interest. It is therefore adopted once again by Mr Polakis. It adopts Mr Polakis, who, according to his own confession, is the one who brought double books to his municipality, as mayor! This story, Minister, has kind of been veiled. I don't know how, but somehow this story is gone. That's weird, too. He is this Mr. Paulakis who, by his own statement, said that he was making twice as much money as he makes as a Member. Where's his whereabouts? What will the competent bodies do? Will they consider it, yes or not, or the many heavy and exposed Mr. Paulakis can say in a puppy style what he wants whenever he wants? Because that's what this is about. And, of course, it is this Mr Paulakis who adopts the leaking conversation and today he comes to the House, of course - and he tells us 'but, no, I didn't leak it'. Be careful: Maximus is coming out and the finger is moving to Mr. Stournara. Indeed, Minister of Justice, let us ask ourselves this: it has been so long. The time is 16.00 p.m. Since last night, when these passages of the conversation between Mr. Polakis and Mr. Stournara broke out and after the statement this morning by Mr. Stournara that he never gave his consent to such a publicity of this private conversation, I ask: are there prosecutors in Athens? So where are the prosecutors? Or is that also at will and by choice, as we want? All of this reminds of Orban regime and no left-wing and progressive staff will prevent you from being and being like the Orban government. You have simply put on a mask and you say 'we are left'. Who believes you? On the left, you're rotting with what you're doing. Of course, Mr Paulakis came here and said something, which I have noted, ladies and gentlemen. We'll see from the Minutes. So he said here a moment ago, Mr. Paulakis "Mr. Stournaras, who is the institutionalist, attempts to soak..." - Mr. Polakis, obviously - "...because I contributed to the revelation of CEDEFOP and his wife." Ladies and gentlemen, because I have had the particular honour and responsibility of being a member of the Committee of Inquiry into Health on behalf of the Democratic Association and because my colleagues are here, such as Mr Lappas and other colleagues, who were together and there, I would like to say that we do not want to defend anyone but the truth. When Mr Stournara's wife sent a letter and asked for him to be called as a witness to the Health Committee for the scandals, did he not have that right, Minister of Justice? He was asking for it to be heard! He was asking for it to be heard, nothing else. However, the majority, which was obviously guided by Mr Paulakis today, did not allow it, although I and other colleagues had said to hear from all sides and to shine the truth for everyone, wherever he is, because we in the Change Movement, in PASOK, have clearly said that the whole truth must be put to light and those involved and have responsibilities to pay. But Mr. Paulakis came today and did one of the same. Mr Tsipras also, of course, supported him once again. Of course, he needs to be supported, because he is based on a government and a government majority that is artificial and you know it. They are forty-five (145) and the six (6) willing, who have previously assigned their right and said "We will vote on all the bills". It is a few ANELs, a few “caramanlic” Right and a few rivers, which became a stream and disintegrated. So the government's majority of forty - five (145) plus six (6) is called upon to carry out the government's work. However, it is not just the positive ones - because we do not have zeros, there are positive ones to vote in this bill - that this majority, ladies and gentlemen, will carry out. You'll have to raise everything that's going on. What is happening is a huge burden, because this is where the distinction of powers is really being violated, because this is a situation where we have situations of the type Madour. And, of course, is it possible to think that with this situation the country will travel for several more months? Listen, this is all about justice, but the Greek people are finally responsible. Of course, no government of "quark" can support at this time, even though Mr Tsipras, from here, from the Step of the House, had described Papademos as "a rag government". He's got no problem. He took Ms Xinoyanakopoulou from the "quarrel" government and then said to take Mr Moraitis to make him a State Secretary, so that we don't have a problem and have others from the "quarrel" government to the Tsipras government. I'm seeing it all right! And a little ANEL, as I said a few "caramanli" right! The soup of the soup of the so-called progressive regime was built to carry out the ruin not only by the prime minister's wife, but also by Mr Polakis, "We do not yet have all the power". So, Mr Paulakis, all of us must have all the power. Definitely, Argits! It's disgraceful! So that's what's being said and it's really such a shame! It is a pity that we are discussing a bill that has positive provisions, regulations in the positive direction that strengthens legal guarantees. I have said the characteristic examples of expressly guaranteeing the presumption of innocence and the right of non-immunification. But you will allow me, before I close my speech, to make two critical points. In your regular practice, gentlemen of the Government, you brought ratification of the International Convention and incorporation of directives along with other provisions. Why are you doing this? Obviously, we will say'residents' - our rapporteur has already said so - not only about what is terrible in that country, but of course because there are instruments and provisions, such as this far-reaching provision on the legalisation of expenditure - all in bulk! - electric lighting, water supply, telephony, publicity. It is precisely, ladies and gentlemen, a revelation of the undocumented and confessed governmental uncertainty. You in the building, in the house where you live, how do you characterize those who systematically don't pay? Of course, I know that there is a tradition here in 'I'm not paying', but now that we're in the government? That's too bad! In conclusion, the Democratic Reconciliation, the Change Movement will vote on those articles that are in the positive direction. He will say a "residence" in the first place, but of course the one who must, first of all, speak and send you quickly to your home is the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u155	Mr Makis Vorides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President. Look, I personally ask myself in this debate what exactly Mr Paulakis has come to say today to the Greek Parliament. He came to say he didn't commit a crime? Apologizing came? He came to say he didn't do that illegal recording after all? In any case, that is what it says, but on the one hand it is not convincing. Since he put it in our judgment, I say it. Because he came here to put these issues on us. It is not convincing because the debate on recording started exactly from the first paragraph in which the talks are made public and, if I recall correctly, it is: 'Hello. Mr. Stournaras? Yeah. It's Paul Paulakis. Yes, sir. What are you doing? Well, thank you. And you know, I record you, just like you recorded me. But I never recorded you!” This is the dialogue which has been reflected in the paper. I should also like to inform you that the Criminal Code in Article 370a is clear and the use of information is a malicious act when it is a product of such a intercept. I should also like to inform you that there is no alleged will to consent on the intercept, because express consent is required to record the conversations. Now what makes me sad at all this? Let me tell you honestly. I am upset by people who commit felonies and then they are not even aware that they have done so. They - from my experience with the criminal law I tell you - are the ones who leave, as we in the court, 'was loaded over years'. Why? Because they haven't figured out what they've done. Now, let's say, he's been told by Mr. Pollack that he's done this, he's worried about the publicity that this story has taken, he's here and he's trying to dismiss the charge. We respect the rights of the accused, although we do not have such a character here. Here we are discussing the political issue. And after he came here, he confessed: "Of course", he says, "and I did very well to go" - notice, these are confessions to others - "I did very well to call and check on my central bank loan and I told him what he should check and I told him that I would go to his office to sit down until he did his job." That's what the Minister says. And I'm wondering now all right, obviously the fellow ministers even look at it, you're enduring it - I understand that to a certain extent - although patience also has limits, huh? There have already been statements - I read Mr Philly - in the opposite direction. The Prime Minister will intervene? Because Mr Paulakis has this status, because his Prime Minister allows him to have that status. Will this situation continue for long? Do we now realize what we're talking about? With regard to the loan control deficiencies which he invoked - does he say that he should check the loans of the newspaper "THE FIRST INVESTMENT" - but did he not become a committee of inquiry to finance the loans of SMEs? Haven't all this been analysed? Have they not even been sent to the appropriate prosecutors to judge whether or not they have to act? What to look at and who to do his job? I'm leaving all this. Incidentally - the Minister is there - because Mr Georgiades has asked for clarification of the retrospectiveness of the application of the presumption of innocence, I would say that, in my opinion, there is no retroactive application of an innocence presumption by this provision, but the compensation of Mr Georgiadis - I have advised him - will go with the general provisions which exist, in any case, under the Convention on Human Rights. Therefore, it must not be embarrassed by the question of compensation. He has a legal basis since he wants to raise claims. Now, the government's image is definitely bad, poor, poor. And, of course, what has been pointed out by others is that it has obviously not been explained to Mr Polakis what the presumption of innocence is and needs intensive care. If you are his friends, those of you who are his friends, you must advise him because he is heading very fast towards the disaster, but he will also cause damage to the public. Before I come to the issue of the bill, I would mention another parentheses which has emerged and is employing. Minister, your answer to the question of prisons may indicate a lack of understanding of criticism. The criticism is not, because this particular criminal organisation is not being treated or prosecuted. He's being prosecuted. It's clear. In fact, there is a total amount of persecution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u157	When it dismantles.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u158	Watch out. The big problem is they're already prisoners. So the question is not that we have a criminal organisation that is not in custody, is not limited and is acting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u159	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u160	And so, then, the Minister's answer would be right. In other words, the Minister's answer would be: 'But we arrested them and therefore dismantled them'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u161	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u162	The problem here is that they are prisoners, organised crime through prison, they remain prisoners and just now, they are added charges. But some of them are serving many isobi sentences. Some of them have already been detained for sixteen years in prisons. So it's not even - let me say it - new reservations. The problem here - and that is what the Ministry has to deal with - is the situation within prisons. I'm not saying it's new, I'm not saying it happened on a casket or that it happened on a shortcut. It's a tough situation inside prisons. But I say that you have a responsibility, especially because you have not allowed the highest security prisons to proceed. That would be an answer to the problem of gangs acting through prison. Now, to insist on our disagreement, on the matter of prosecutors and judges. This small addition, which is trying to extend the subject somewhat, does not cover the matter. The right approach would be to open up multiples and be able to be judges. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If I have a little time, Mr President - one minute I will need, not more - for very brief remarks, because the rest has largely developed. In connection with the issue of the situation in prisons, I consider it leniently unsatisfactory and null and void, the expansion of the parties to the bakery in rural prisons and others. In my opinion, this debate should have come as a whole as a debate on conditional dismissal. That's the big conversation. And there should also be a debate on the beneficial calculation of wages, we should also discuss the terms and times of dismissal on terms, and we should also discuss a real and serious system that ensures society from the release of dangerous criminals without having served their sentence. The last point, which I would like to make and point out - although proposals have been made in this direction, and although we are all positive in that direction, and although we have discussed this - is the issue of self-sacrificing offences involving the press, in particular the abuses, simple discredits and slandering. I have pointed out that the way in which the provision is formulated - and you insist on that, you have not changed - is not avoided arrest, but then the self-contained procedure is not followed. In my opinion, the opposite should be sought, namely, to avoid arrest, but to speed up the process of liquidating the criminal offences in question, so that the accelerated procedure, which we have in the criminal proceedings, could be followed. The improvement, which you have also made, is partial because it says that the application of the self-sacrifice is excluded in the press, but the provision remains strong. So we now have two provisions in the Code of Criminal Procedure: One of them tells us that the offences committed through the press are always self-evident. However, we also have another provision, which says that when the offences of 361, 362, 363 are committed, the self-declared procedure is not applicable. We have two completely contradictory and anti-legal provisions within the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u163	So do we. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-nine students and students and four teachers attending the 4th High School Argos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Leonidas Gregorakos has the floor from the Democratic Reconciliation
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the relationship between each government and justice is an indicator of the quality of our democratic culture. But when this relationship is inappropriate, then with certainty the positions of discrimination of powers are being violated, the rules that must govern our political system are being violated. The institution of justice today, in the days of the Tsipras and others, is transformed into a belt to promote concrete decisions that favour and serve plans and pursuits of the rulers. Worst? It is converted into a force for prosecuting party opponents. This is the worst thing that can happen in a Western democracy. Unfortunately, the SYRIZA - ANEL and the other willing persons of the last four years, now, are trying to make their judiciary persuasive organs. The examples are countless. Whether it is raw interference in their work, indicating the actions and actions to be taken by the judges or using them, to target the undeserved. An entire para-state mechanism under the high guidance of the notorious Rasputin is moving the strings, trying to control everything. This great revelation made a senior judicial officer, Mr President, Mrs Raikou, referring to specific cases. The once commander of the NRA, known for his right-wing and pro-caramanistic feelings, who even stumbles them today, is an inspiration and incarcerator of this para-state mechanism. You understand, ladies and gentlemen, what this means. He has served with the National Intelligence Agency - in no other state has this been done on a global scale - currently leading the Ministry of Justice. Because that's the real minister. Now you understand what mafia methods top government officials are following in order to impose decisions and what sources of informants they use to hurt people in and out of politics, in and out of justice. For example, I would like to mention the pink revelation of the newspaper "SUGI". It reached the point of blackmailing a public supreme judge, on the eve of the Council of State's decision, which had been called upon to judge the constitutionality of the infamous Pappa Law on Media, and this, because this judge was in disagreement with the governmental manipulations. What else can we get to know? Cammenos - Kotzia and complaints to the Ministerial Council, Velkoulescu - Tomsen intercepts, Varoufakis? Of course, the 'NOVARTIS' case was leading athletics. We've got hoodwifes being confiscated. Scenarios have disappeared. Indictments have been filed with the sole argument 'I think', 'I heard', 'I was told'. This misinterpretation appeared from Rasputin of democracy and justice, as the biggest scandal of the establishment of the Greek state. Ladies and gentlemen, the NOVARTIS scandal, because I am a doctor, is an international scandal and is a scandal, specifically involving doctors. From there on, justice will stand up and give the answers to the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. The result, however, was that two former Prime Ministers, eight former ministers and other government officials and state officials were charged with transactions with irresponsible charges. For all this, the above and what has been happening in the country over the last few years exclusively responsible is the Prime Minister of the country. He is solely responsible for the uproar of our policies and policies, the curse of the country and the violation of our values and institutions of democracy in recent years. What is the development of the NOVARTIS case? Even today, it is very much sought - in view of the elections - that formula which will lead to the stand of the accused former government officials. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have reached the point of requesting the opening of accounts by a former Prime Minister, invoking the reputation of a convicted in prison of a large-scale executive, who, in order to justify the loss of the work of security at the Olympic Games, argued that American competitors had access to the highest government levels. The habits, the misery, your inappropriate practices have no precedent. They are similar to those of the so-called 'Camara' syndicate crime. In addition, what else do they remind? Minister, I have no personal issues with you, but unfortunately, that's what reality says. If you deny reality, see what your minister did last night. I don't want to tell you what you should have done. Revealing dialogues between Foreign and Defence Ministers - and nobody takes a stand - by saying 'I will melt you', courts, appealing to the Areo Ice, and sues. These are the dialogues that took place during your government service. If these are not mafia ways of governing the country, then who are they? Are they really compatible with the separation of powers, Minister, the brutal interventions in the field of justice, the most undocumented Minister, which the government has today? He's giving names, he's giving things and he's not talking to you? Is it or is it not an impediment that the Minister of Health names public judges, leaving them for work or decisions that are not his like? All Greece knows Stournaras had no competence for systemic banks. He only had responsibility for the Attica Bank, and the whole society knows that. But you didn't do anything. We didn't want you to do, at least to pick up a phone and say that justice doesn't work that way, the city doesn't work that way, democracy doesn't work that way. We are in a Western world rule of law, not a state of another continent. In what favoured state would the Minister intervene in the work of justice or phone the independent central banker of the country, indicating to him what investigations the banking system has to order, even by recording him and then by giving him the videotext speech to friends of adjoining SMEs? These unprecedented events, Minister, for which you are not responsible now that you happen to be at the Ministry of Justice, appear in Greece of 2019, with a government "First Left". The judges' manipulation operation and any trabulation at their expense, but also the intervention against the Central Bank, refer to a Latin American country. They have nothing to do with the developing world. The certain thing is that the newcomers of power, seeing their coming wreck do not swell before anything. It's Mr. Constantopoulos here. Ask him what the man you wrote these days, what the polls were in his homeland and who he was swearing about. Did he apologize, at least to the Prime Minister of the country, for making him a State Secretary? So they use all the means to salvage what they can. The residence of SYRIZA - ANEL and other apostates and statements, along with the so-called 'central-left waste' - as the Prime Minister, who thus described a former Member of Parliament - is not going to change the time of things. The country will not be a Latin American country, no matter how many people want it. You will find us in front of you in these plans and your condemnation is inevitable in the forthcoming elections, whenever they occur. You will have the most adverse effect than any post-multiple government. And you know why you'll have it? Because democracy, whatever you do, will win. He had no personal tips, Minister, my speech to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u165	Mr Stavros Kontonis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to refer to Rule 33 of today's bill, which provides for a change to Article 417 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, because both Protocol 16 and the European Public Prosecutor legislation are extremely important legislation. I was also seized at the time I was Minister of Justice and I am very pleased - at least for Protocol 16 - that the slightest changes have not been made. However, I would like some clarification today about the change of this article, of the Code of Criminal Procedure. What does it say to us, ladies and gentlemen, 417? That if we have an offence to a degree of misdemeanor, the self-destructive procedure is being activated. That's the rule. It adds the article 'unless the prosecutor considers it otherwise, after being informed by the prosecution'. That's the rule. In other words, a rule is introduced on the self-sacrifice of the offences and an exception, which it leaves in the prosecutor's judgment, to give expressly injurious, etc. So today we have a legislative provision, which says'some articles in the Criminal Code, which are astounding, defamation and defamation, for these articles do not follow the self-sacrificial process'. If the regulation were to be left here, it would be perfectly logical to discuss it. I would not agree at all, but I would tell you in advance, but it makes sense. It also introduces the regulation which we are discussing, an exception. And what does it say? 'The procedure will not be followed unless the prosecutor considers that we have a good reason'. In other words, we are coming back to the same thing, which is provided for in Article 417 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, unless I don't understand it. Because if, in one case, as a rule and in the other case as an exception, the prosecutor will once again decide on the activation and completion of the process of the self-declaration, then here we are introducing a provision, which I do not understand what serves, for these three offences which have been committed in the Criminal Code. Mr President, it has been mentioned by several colleagues that this provision concerns offences involving the press. In the press, however, there is a special arrangement and the special rules, which stipulates that these offences are being persecuted or that one does not. That's what I think. In other words, how we legislate and what exceptions we put - in fact, in the original provision - I would like to see some sort of place taken. I would like to say that, particularly through the press, persecuted offences as a self-defense, I am entitled to more - I think - from anyone to speak in this Chamber, because I have fallen victim to not even once or twice horrendous publications, which I have said to write what they want, because while I am a Member, I am not going to move against anyone. In the judgment of all and what they write and what they say in the election in 2015. I am now waiting for a new election because, you know, Zakynthos' one-sided bride is "very fertile", so we will see such things once again after 2015. Mr. Voridis, you remember what nice things they wrote! I would like to say, therefore, that although I believe that we have no contact with the press, because, as I said, we have a special provision that should be abolished - in any case, we should not touch this provision, because it is the only point that is the only one, which somehow makes some people feel unjust and say each other - I say good option - indisputable information. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have journalists at Mr Yiannis Marino's level - and I mention Mr Yiannis Marino, because he is absolutely hostile to SYRIZA - who were journalists, crossing up to the last detail, a piece of information. We have an extensive "yellow" type, which is how he lives and so he walks. We should therefore, once we have nothing else to protect, not the political world, but also ordinary people who are in the eye of the cyclone at times, not to go to such legislative arrangements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, by voting on Protocol 16 and on the provisions of the presumption of innocence, there is a lot of innocence in our legal system, because it must be realised that this presumption of innocence must be respected by all, especially the state officials and those who have a responsible place in the political system. This, you know, without sanction, remains a wishlist. We are generally talking about the rules of the rule of law and, above all, about the fact that when it comes to attacking such fundamental rights, it is against their actions and their consequences, because each victim has the right to compensation now. I therefore consider it to be a special moment for our legal culture and for Parliament that it finally ratifys Protocol 16 and the provisions on the presumption of innocence, and I hope it will work in pedagogical terms, for a large number of citizens and even public persons, so that they can adapt to the letter and spirit of the law. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u169	But nothing has been heard about you, Mr. Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u170	My name was mentioned by Mr. Gregoraco earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u171	This is the most original "personnel" I have heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u172	I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u173	He praised you, didn't offend you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u174	For one minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Constantopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u176	I will apologise to the next speaker for a moment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u177	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u178	As far as the Minister is concerned, it will be assessed in the course of time. As far as I am concerned, however, I would like to make this statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Constantopoulos, do not embarrass me. That's not personal. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u180	I have not referred to fraudulent or fraudulent governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u181	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u182	Because it sounded from the Step in relation to me. What I have to say is that Mr Moraitis is apologise to the SYRIZA Members, whom he called the occult perpetrators and fraudsters, and to the Prime Minister himself, whom I respect as both an institution and a person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u183	So do we. Mr. Cryazides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u184	Minister, during the debate on the draft law in committee, I was given some questions about specific provisions. And the former Minister of Justice has added me another question, in fact, on the special provision concerning crimes committed through the press. I will wait for an answer from you, because I consider it particularly important. We'll meet her along the way. I wish, of course, that we do not meet her, but unfortunately reality is tough. I would like to say that it was necessary to add to the internal law of the country of Protocol No 16, of course, the guarantee of human rights. There was a wide debate in the committees and with the bodies that were called, I would say in sufficient and rich time, against other bill codes. We had this, if you would like, the good times for there to be a full analysis of the relevant bill and of the provisions that you have put forward for discussion. As I have just said, I have some questions concerning Rule 7 and I have not received a single answer during the debate on the draft law in the committees nor today. I also wanted to link it to Article 86 of the Constitution for the responsibility of the Ministers. It's kind of confusing. The relevant article raises issues for me and I would like an answer. Minister, I served justice by applying the law as a top police officer, and I was wondering if I should take the floor today where you might have learned an answer to Article 7. However, when the Deputy Minister for Health came here today, I said that I was right to do, because I was in the public interest here, in this Parliament, as our rapporteur mentioned, caused. Has he committed or committed the serious crime of a malicious nature in relation to Article 370a of the Criminal Code? I was thinking that if I were the President of the retreat, as Mr Balaur did at a sitting here in plenary, I would call the guard for this self-sacrificing procedure - I say it by saying it, for it has indeed caused it. And I asked the late Deputy Minister of Health: If you did not record and give this debate to the public 'DOCUMENTO', then did the former Minister of Finance give it, as you say, a banker? I didn't get an answer. Has he intercepted the 'DOCUMENTO'? Then other issues are born. It just started this conversation on the winds and water again in order to disorientate, with particular envy, indifference and impatientness. And it's a pity for an active minister. Minister, you are noble, and you are a sympathetic one to me. I say this because during the two years of governance of the country, from 2012 to 2014, from New Democracy, we also had such a multiple pressure. But we leaned on the head, we listened to the citizen, we did not move our hand, as is happening today by many executives, on your side, with a nerve. I have heard colleagues who have asked for his resignation. No, I do not agree with Mr Polakis' resignation. It's bad for you. Hold him! He is useful in counter-population with this arbitraryness, threat, hybridistic, abusive, slandering tone that distinguishes him. And, of course, I am asking the question about the content of the provision of Article 7 in this bill, in order to avoid any doubts as to the presumption of innocence. And it is reasonable first to allow the affected person to bring the action under Articles 105 and 106 of the Civil Code to remedy his harm. However, it is crucial, after payment by the Greek State of the compensation in question, that the injured official or official of the public authority, who caused such damage, be brought to bear. In short, it cannot pay public compensation without expressly providing for that article, such as their respective responsibility and obligation, which caused such damage and damage to be paid by reference. I expect a position on this. Will the public pay for the illegal, slandering, defamatory acts of Mr Polakis? Will the taxpayer now pay them? I'm saying that, so we can get to know each other. This should be clarified and clarified. This is what I believe society is expecting. It is not possible for every arbitrary act of an official to be paid by the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u185	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Panayotaros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, I would like to take the opportunity from the Step of the House and say something about some comments on the Internet about not voting - as people say - on the Golden Dawn of this article in SYRIZA's proposals for the Revision of the Constitution. We say to the well-meaning that the Golden Dawn has its own proposals, which concern the philosophical issues, which anyone can see, as well as anyone who can see the hundreds, not tens, questions, which have been made by Members of the Golden Dawn, which concern matters about stray animals and not just animals. I'm putting in a few for the Minutes. I would like to ask the following questions: has Mrs Zaroulia asked, who is leading the pro-zootic movement. I'm asking some of my questions about stray animals and not just. I am asking, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, questions to all the municipalities of Attica about the state of the huntinghouses. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are questions which will be answered in the program of the "Greek Dawn" for Attica will see the positions and opinions that we have or have others on these issues. That's all about the well-being. The malicious ones who declare vegetarian and vegan specific days of the week, but on the Great Friday they are engaged in meating or diligently forget the proven documentaries, where coroners, especially in the center of Athens and elsewhere, have ravaged strays and made menus for their table, these have been left to them in the comments of others. We heard previous MPs - Mr Paulakis was here before - in a very nice phased-out and sorting, about the loans received by alpha or beta and it was justifiable for each of the previous MPs and the Minister that they were all legal and fine. Now, how is it going to get a 100,000 euro consumer loan from anyone with a mortgage on an already mortgageed property, which has an overvalued value, that's another request. But it is also hypocritical, from the point of view of New Democracy and PASOK, that my finger is swinging when their own parties owe more than EUR 200 million each. Only in the last or last year did New Democracy get another EUR 25 million loan. These are borrowers and unscrupulous, so we know what's going on. Or we have the cases of sea-shooting for forgotten, as was the case with "KERYKA HANES" and other "businesses" and when they were caught "by hand in the vase, honey", make an adjustment. And we have said it many times from this here the Step and elsewhere that it is the dream of every borrower the arrangement, which has been made at the "KERYKA OF CHANGS". Then all Greeks could pay off their loans and loans would not be considered "red" and all would go very well. We are talking about the most favourable conditions that can be found throughout the world. In order not to talk about the sea loans of the municipalities, not to talk about loans from various and certain businessmen who, of course, have no question, those who have a Manolo, a dalaverger, to put the file on them underneath and get into top files of other cases, then they have absolutely no question, because no one is bothering them. Of course, it should be recalled that the Golden Dawn has no loan, it has no funding, it has nothing and yet remains a stable third political force, with upward trends. In all this, small and medium-sized ones, who are struggling to get a business loan, a working loan, so that they can work, see nothing getting mad at 'consumers' - within many introductorys - loans of 100,000 euros and more. For this bill, which has a very interesting title, because it deals with human rights, with the rights of the accused, with the presumptions of innocence and various other very interesting ones: of course, all of these are in words and papers and a la carte, highly selective in specific cases. Remind the famous "Chryssayada" of 2013 in this case, in relation to all the rights allegedly indicted, the Members of the Golden Dawn, the Chief of Staff, who were playing first news in the eight pages, without having any altered faces, and even the last rapist, pedophile is presented without any other, personal data, data. We must continue with the view and position of all the constitutional arch, which does not speak in many cases with the criminal Nazi organisation, as you say, while the trial runs, and often we see here by an oral Prime Minister, Chief of Officer, MPs, ministers, speaking as if it were the result of a specific trial, and we do not have to wait until the process is completed. Since we are talking about human rights, in his last speech the Chief of the Golden Dawn in Parliament also referred to the humiliation of parliamentary control, where this minister - who is not at the moment, has just left, no problem - does not respond to the constitutionally regulated parliamentary control exercised by the Golden Dawn, like other SYRIZA ministers, with some pretexts, that he has not responded to the Nazi - criminal organisation, that 'for constitutional reasons' and various other turbulence. It's okay, you'll find it in front of you. As for SYRIZA, who once said, by oral Prime Minister, that SYRIZA is every word of the Constitution, we see, especially in the last year, in your actions and actions that in the end you are the ones who are trampletting every word of the Constitution. At the height of what has happened, strife, appalling, anti-national, unacceptable, unconstitutional with this famous 'agreement' - within many introductory words - betrayal by the Ambassadors. After the disgracefulness that took place in Skopje, where there, even where any constitution had become a rag in the literality, a skateboard and it was a ready and sincere decision, the procedures have been made and, unfortunately, the backs of the Officerial Representation have not been made. This agreement was passed by a simple, relative majority, rather than passing, as laid down in the Constitution, with an eighty-eight-eight-member parliamentarians. We have seen various other captive events happening in the Greek Parliament. Once the declarant has been lost, there is no majority on the substance. We see MPs who are borrowers, enrolling, with promise, MPs who exist in two parties up to the moment we speak, to understand what happens when we say you are literally humiliating the Constitution, Parliament, everything. And you are talking about human rights, the rights of the accused and all that sounds very happy and very nice. All this, of course, becomes a la carte. In this bill we also heard the speaker of the Golden Dawn, and we heard a number of other Members who raised various issues, articles, questions. The photographic provision for the European Public Prosecutor shows how much you are interested in keeping the Constitution and being every word of the Constitution, as you once said. It is a photographic provision which the hundreds of prosecutors present in the country restricts them to a number of four-fifths of five prosecutors who can and respect these photographic conditions. We have heard a lot of talk about the self-sacrificing process for journalists and discernments. Of course, what we have to point out here is this: When there is a complaint from a Member or a member of the Golden Dawn, because it is being slandered or devastated by a journalist, we see that there is absolutely no literality in the process, but when a big businessman, a factor or a minister of government, or someone else, we see self-destructive processes going on in the light of the situation, and indeed with cinematographic processes. We also heard about the crimes through the press. The fact is, of course, that the main stream type of our country has trampled every concept of legality in what is about the Golden Dawn, how they present facts, actions, actions or not at all, is nothing wrong at all. Either way, we think that this bill is not going to solve anything at all. All of this is ashes in the eyes of the world, so that it continues to function in this terrible way that the system, society and everything else is working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u187	Thank you. Mrs. Brandza from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u188	Thank you. Mr President, I have asked for the floor in order to propose a parliamentary amendment. It is the general number 1957 and specialist 171, for which the Minister has been and has been accepted. This is an amendment concerning the Greek Agricultural Insurance Agency, the ELGA. This legislation makes an effort to facilitate further the operation of the Agricultural Insurance Agency and to facilitate more the rural world, effectively reducing the time to pay the compensation to farmers when they have declared any damage to livestock or vegetable capital. Under existing legislation, ELGA correspondents are appointed municipal officials on a voluntary basis by each municipality's mayor, which is finally approved by the president of the agency. What has been observed in many regions of the country is that there has been a weakness and difficulty in working between the organization and the municipal councils and the mayors and in some remote, mainly municipalities and small local communities, it has been impossible to appoint a municipal official, precisely because there is a sub-secretary and there were no corresponding individuals, so that there would also be an ELGA correspondent. So we come with this amendment and say that, on the one hand, the mayor must appoint a correspondent of the ELGA so that we do not have delays in recording the damage and, on the other hand, when there is a failure to appoint a municipal official, there is the possibility of being appointed either a member of the municipal council or a member of the local council, the local community or a member or a person of the agricultural cooperative concerned. This makes it easier and reduces the time to pay compensation, since at least we have no delays at least at the beginning, to record the damage and the rural world is better served. Mr President, this amendment has been signed by fourteen Members and I think it will be accepted by other Members of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Spyridon Lappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have also participated in the committees and had a rich, fruitful dialogue between the Members and the ministers. Even at the hearing of the bodies there was an exchange of views, and so a fruitful high-level dialogue was developed, because such a dialogue is a high-level one, when apart from political ones it is also legal. This also abolishes, of course, the concept of politics and the concept of legal science. Because most of the committee's Members were lawyers, this dialogue created charm and harmony. Thus, I am referring also to the so-called phrase of Heraklion that 'of the many that are different in harmony'. Of course, there were differences, objections, several important issues, however. After all, legal science and, I would say, political science is nothing but what he said in "Nicomachia Ethics" Aristotle "always gray may have." In other words, there must also be a second version, a second reading, a second concept, a second proposal, to convene and go to consensus. That was a general comment as a foreword. I'm coming to Protocol 16. I have, as a major objection to Protocol 16, the view of Mr Syntagakis and the Communist Party. I have to reply to my colleague, who I think is also legal. We're colleagues, aren't we, Mr. Syndrome?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u191	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u192	You don't? Then I have to tell you that your legal word was excellent and excellent. So you are in the legal matter. I must tell you that the Court of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights were created as an undeniable need for societies and states after World War II. They were founded at the same time as the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. As long as I can tell you that the European Convention, the ECHR, was ratified by law in 1953. If you bring in your mind as the Left what created these great conventions and the courts after World War II, was it exactly why? To create a pan-human, peaceful, democratic future. That's it, Mr. Covenant. Because to say every time, when we talk about a European structure, a collectiveity or an instrument, that is the result of a choice between the states and the interests of the oligarchs, you know, so you lose below all the struggles and the victims of a huge historical event, which was the holocaust of the Second World War. In other words, do you believe that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which says that humans are born and die free, was the result of the choice of an oligarch? Was it not the result of the tens of millions of victims of World War II and the notion and necessity of a fertile, political and social climate at last, so that we can go to arrangements that will defend the minimum of human and basic political and individual rights? So that's it and watch it. I must tell you that the European Court of Human Rights has acquired a huge authority. Of course, he had a limited field. It only referred to individual rights in the direction of other social rights. However, he has acquired enormous authority. Do you know why? It sought a uniform interpretation of the human rights rules, not only at European level, but also at international level, in particular at local level, at the national level of its Member States. That's very important. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And when did that happen? Imagine Greece of 1950 coming out of a civil war. And then a post-American state of arbitraryness and violation of human rights was structured in Greece. Then it was hoped that we could have such a court defending basic individual rights. Do not forget that the dismissal of Greece by the Council of Europe because of the 1967 dictatorship took place on the basis of the rules and provisions of the ECHR, Mr Colleague. That's the first. That is what needs to be made clear. Because if I go to the individual, most of them have been solved. Secondly, this court was once expressed in 1963, in the 1960s on the occasion of discrimination in the United States against Negro citizens. And Martin Luther King answered just before his murder on what the court president once said, and said that if there is injustice somewhere for some, justice is threatened everywhere and for all, Mr. Synchronism. He also said "all right, it's true that the law or a directive or a contract cannot make me forbid anyone to love me. However, I may be allowed by the law to force and forbid someone to lynshape me." And that's what's important. That's the minim I told you he was doing. Thirdly, let us say something and bless our beards. I heard before that the SYRIZA Government since 2015 left no directive and no protocol that would ratify it. Could he have some delay? Maybe he does. But the speed it has shown in relation to the former regime is enormous. Comparisons are catalytic in our favour. As long as I tell you this to be recorded in the Minutes of the House: from 1959 to 2017, during the period of the Court of Human Rights, Greece was referred for nine hundred and sixty-three cases of human rights violations. The eighty-four by the year 2000 were convicted, thirty-four were innocent and twenty ended up in the file following a compromise with the court allowed under Article 9 of the ECHR. In other words, 95% of the petitions led to convictions against our country over violations of human rights. We all have to think about what this is. Does this create, spark off and nurture the thought of the Greek legislator, in fact, so that we do not run again as a court or the European Court of Human Rights and there can be judgments? I think today the adoption of Protocol 16, ratification and European Directive 2016/343 on the presumption of innocence is a very good start. And as Plutaric once said in a nice text "the beginning of the victorious victory". So, if we start doing something about it, it's already a win. It would also be a omission as a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA not to mention that there is a huge capital in the judiciary Greek legal order, concerning the incorporation and use of the case-law of the European Court of Justice by the highest courts in the country, particularly the Council of State. I say that to the lawyers. By 2000, only two judgments were reported and evaluated by the Council of State by the Court of Justice. After 2000 and until 2018 70% of the decisions of the Council of State, when it was a violation of rights, are taken using and incorporating the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. This is a response to all those who question the usefulness - catalytic, in my opinion - of the European Court of Human Rights, the ECHR and its case-law. Now we are going to this point and say: is there really satisfactory sense of smell, communication, dialogue and understanding between our supreme courts and judges with the European Court of Human Rights and his case-law? I think that today there is a satisfactory level. Until a few years ago, unfortunately, there was not and was the exception of judges and courts referring to the provisions of the ECHR and the case law of the European Court of Justice. There really is a satisfactory communication today, so to speak. What does it help? Protocol 16, take care of it, is helping in this respect. The national court's contact with the Court of Justice's case-law is now established in Protocol 16, since the supreme judge, the Supreme Court, will not only investigate what the contract says and will seek to find legal data, but has the right to an pending trial before him, which concerns the interpretation of the ECHR Convention and individual rights to give an opinion on the broad composition and thus to have a preliminary ruling, if you wish, of an interpretative nature, on the matter he is dealing with. The objection by Mr Voridis, who is a good lawyer and knows, is, as he said, that what he claims to be Protocol 16, to be justified and to reject the request and accept it, does not make sense, he says, because it is optional in terms of its implementation and commitment. But it doesn't matter. We are talking about a European judicial body, where it can only be justified by any opinion of a judgment. After all, it may not be compulsory and binding for the national judge, but it jumps the thought of the national judge and that is the important thing. That is why we want sufficient justification, and that is very important. So I agree with Mr Venizelos and the Minister, of course, that ratification of Protocol 16 is extremely important in this respect. Now the issues that have been raised in particular and concerning the debate that has been held both within the committee and here. Presumption of innocence from Directive 343/16. Really, would we be proud if there were no explicit provision of law that would guarantee the presumption of innocence and describe it throughout its range? We wouldn't be proud. And, ladies and gentlemen, in the criminal proceedings of 1834, there was an explicit provision in favour of the presumption of innocence. Indeed, there was also in the political constitution of the Third National Assembly of Troisena in 1827, the so-called sovereign or royal constitution of the First National Assembly of the Argons in 1832 and the King Ferraios Constitution. Imagine, in revolutionary times when we had revolutionary law, namely after revolution, we always have a provision in favour of man and his rights. And in that sense, here is my objection to the position of the JRC, which is reacting to the issue by saying that we are stressing - we do not stress - the positive ones. And Article 9 of the Declaration of Human Rights and Citizenship of the French Revolution is precisely because it came after a revolution and always after revolutions are satisfied, if not throughout their range, but to a very large extent, individual rights. Imagine that the ones we talked about in the 1920s with the Revolution of 1921 came and said the ECHR in the end with Article 6(2). For the first time, the presumption of innocence comes and becomes a written text of law. We are fully satisfied with this, and we must be at least the lawyers and all the citizens, who are very satisfied. One point which has arisen, Mr President, and Mr Minister, was the question of Article 417. I, as a lawman, understand after hearing the objections... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I'm ending. This is very important. I have heard the objections of both the former Minister of Justice and Mr Voridis from the committees yet. I take the Ministry's insistence on this issue, as it appears that there is a provision in Article 242(2) that says "always through the press are self-sufficient" and now a provision is in Article 417 that the self-sufficient for the press offences committed under Articles 361, 362, 363, i.e. to exalt, defamation and slandering. And it also retains a reservation of jurisdiction, unless the prosecutors judge otherwise in the light of circumstances, etc. In order to keep it as it is, I can only justify it as a general provision in 242/2, Minister, and a special provision which prevails with the one introduced by 417, because it is unequivocally clear that they have a conflict between them. So, if the finality of his order is that, the general and special provision prevails, even though the remarks which have been made are not inappropriate. And one last thing, especially for lawyers: for the first time - and as lawyers, I have to admit it - in 366, which is the conclusion of the provisions of the anti-price crimes, an unwarranted presumption was introduced. Mr. Vorides said so, if you say a thief to me and I go to trial and get caught as a thief and then you come to trial me for a slandering as to whether I am a thief, is there any possibility for the court to say that I'm a thief? This really highlights all the experience we have as fighters. Unfortunately, however, the directive requires us to abolish all the unmistakable evidence. Mr President, what is now being introduced, the abolition of 366, of the civilian presumption, I take it as follows: It is combatable in the sense that new elements will emerge, which were not in the knowledge of the court that held the main case. Otherwise it doesn't mean, it doesn't. Here imagine that if we have new evidence, we can even repeat the process. So there we cannot have an irrevocable decision on an alpha event and overthrow it a second one. I therefore understand that, in the context of the philosophy of Directive 343, in the sense that, in order to combat the presumption, we shall have new evidence, obviously. They cannot be the same elements of the case-file that has been tried and we have irrevocably decided. That's what I'm saying. All the provisions contained in Chapters V and VI - and the Minister told you to the committees - have repeated this today - are requests from the House and urgent questions. Good, it's a bad legacy. I believe it, too. Look, though, poor legislation must disappear when it comes to urgency and resolve issues, and reality is alive. So what are we gonna do? Will we have two prisons, which will identify and calculate the sentences otherwise and otherwise? It can't be done! What will we do if the House today says 'I am on the verge of bankruptcy, if I do not put an end to this, so that I can maintain e-government in the context of the provision of legal services'. They're such issues. I close, Mr President - Mr Vorides is not here - on the subject of penitentiary. He was a little strict. It was essentially a announcement of the earlier death of the penitentiary system. That was because he said that he could discuss the current dismissal not so fragmented, but with a new philosophy of a principle, but he did not accept by any means only the time to create a sentence. He's strict. It is a conservative option - I would say - in the area of legal science and, in fact, it can be what the Romans say 'dura lex, sed lex', tough law, but law. But I must tell you, Mr Papatheodorou, that Roman legal science balanced this with'summum jus, comma injuria', absolute justice, absolute injustice. So, let the Ministry do his job, come the Penitentiary Code, come the Penal Codes so that we can rationalise a regime that we have often protested at audiences, often we are bitter with the standpoint of courts and judiciary and often we are sad about our judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Lappa, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "For the ratification of concessions concluded between the Greek State and the Port Authoritys SA - Provisions for the functioning of the port governance system and other provisions". Mr. Michael Kalogerou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, I assume that we will have time for the seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u195	Then we must precede the seconds and the Minister must close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u196	I'm just reminding you. Now, if the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u197	Are there any requests for a second, except for Mr. Synthraki?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u199	Here you go, Mr. Contonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u200	Because a matter was raised with 417 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and by the SYRIZA rapporteur and by other Members and by me, would it be good, before we enter a second cycle, for the Minister to speak on this matter, to clarify, so that we do not enter an endless course of discussion?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u201	Very good, Mr. Contonis. Minister, I think you could give this answer to Mr Contonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u202	Thank you. So, first of all, we must resolve an issue which has to do with the last remaining parliamentary amendment, the 1961 amendment, and Mr Sargiotis, Mr Katsis and Mrs Christodoulopoulos, which concerns the secretaries of the disciplinary boards. This amendment is accepted by the Ministry and the title of the bill is supplemented by the words 'and other provisions', as the amendments which have been accepted have been included. By the way, I am very grateful to Stavros Kontonis for his contribution to this legislation. As I said in my introductory position, the first chapters are the result of the work done at the Ministry when we received this summer. In relation to 417 and the points made by Mr Kontonis, I would like to say: Firstly, what is the need for us to see again in 417, and indeed - I am opening up parentheses - to look at it too much, because, as the legislators have said, the first phase of their work on the Code of Criminal Procedure has been completed. There was a public debate on incidents caused by political tensions - or not - between political persons, journalists and citizens. The issue was raised by the CSCE, but also raised by the parties, with their lasting interventions with various legislative proposals. We have undertaken to find a solution, which will be balanced both in substance and in procedural terms. We have said - and I have said so publicly at the first moment - that such a solution can not only concern journalists, but also all citizens, in a process and in a crime, which by its very nature often the self-contained process does not ultimately lead to the conclusion of the trial, precisely because such offences are controlled in terms of proof and not immediately. Therefore, we usually have deferrals, judges, explicit courts, etc. Therefore,'saving' citizens, parties, courts, police authorities to the offences of exaltation, defamation and defamation and for technical reasons, i.e. because of the application of the self-declared procedure, would create the right ground to reconvene this provision. But in what direction? There is indeed a provision of 242 which is a general procedural provision. What does the 242 arrangement say? He says the crimes committed through the press are always self-sacrificing, which remains the same. This is a general provision and cannot be changed because crimes committed through the press are not just those, that is, 361 and 363. There are racist crimes, for example, that can be performed through the press. Therefore, removing the provision of 242 posed problems. We therefore come to regulate the issue with a special provision which goes down to 262 and expressly, Mr Lappa, a legislative provision which has been made, because we have added to the provision 'even if it is done through the press'. It has therefore been sufficiently clarified. And we said. What's the general rule? The one Mr. Contonis said. In other words, we have the rule of self-defence and the exception from the public prosecutor if he chooses in specific cases not to follow the self-defense procedure. What does 417 come to do with this amendment at 361 and 363? To do exactly the same thing backwards. The rule, that is to say, that the procedure is not followed, but with the exception of, unless there are special grounds for judgement by the Advocate General. When I was put to the committee, precisely - and let me be joking - and because of the one-sided Zakynthos, I raised issues about the need for a rapid restoration of the damage. The example I have set is this: Imagine a Member of Parliament who is slandered or exulted two days before the elections. If we had a general provision in 417, which would say that the self-defense procedure is not followed in these cases, we would have a problem. That is why it is an exception that the prosecutor will judge those cases where, due to the seriousness of the damage caused, the self-declared procedure will be followed. This way, because we all realise that we are actually going through a time when the fast news is reigning, where they also write not only journalists, but also citizens, I think that saying that in these three offences the rule is that we are doing so, it is certainly possible for the prosecutor to leave the incumbents on phone, but it also has the possibility to assess the seriousness of the offence, in order to order whether or not to follow the self-confidence procedure, is a proper, balanced and effective solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, can I have the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u205	Here you go, Mr. Contonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I listened carefully to what the Minister said and I would like to say this: we have a provision, as is currently the case, in 417. This provision tells us the general rule on the trespasses, which is followed by the self-declared procedure and leaves the prosecutor's judgement if he gives an express case or if the proceedings continue at that time. This is 417. So there is now a new legislation which - I have told you before - if it were to say that these three offences, whether through the press or for whatever reason, are excluded from the self-declared procedure, I would understand that. But this is where the prosecutor is invading again, who, in his judgment, can lead it back to the self-sacrifice. Therefore, we return to the current provision of 417, because we have in this first provision to say "unless the prosecutor expressly gives" and now the same thing happens if the prosecutor considers the problem to be serious, so it is driven to the self-sacrifice. In other words, we have the same result with the first provision and with the second one. Minister, I am making an appeal because I am sure of what you have said to us that has tortured you to come up with a proposal. You can see it in the formulation of the Criminal Code and it is important that we do not have a fragmentary arrangement that will create a confusing atmosphere and insecurity. Be careful, Minister, what's the problem here? While we have so far seen a balanced practice of prosecutors who lead to the self-confidence and to whom they express themselves, here we will have an insecurity of law - in general I say the "right" - in that a strict prosecutor may consider in Athens the same offence of slandering, for example, that it is serious and another prosecutor - again in Athens, not in the province - for the same offence to say "okay, baby, give an explicit trial here and see what is going to happen". So you realize that there is a problem. I would tell you, Minister, because you are also familiar with criminal law issues, that you withdraw this provision and see it under the Criminal Code. There you will have all the room for the necessary amendments to the provision on press offences. I said in my speech that I am entitled to speak, because on the eve of the 2015 elections, when I was State Secretary for Sports, you cannot imagine what I had received from these lousy types of sports newspapers. Also, when I was again Deputy Minister of Sports, my favourite family had been charged with a newspaper by Mr Marinakis for robbery, which I should have known and should not have had an affair with him. Such misery! Because I am never going to sue or lead to the civil court anyone who says these misery at my expense, so I am telling you this, Minister. I don't have any interest. The statement I made from the first moment, that as long as I am a elected Member, I am not going to sue and kidnap anyone, it is true. So let's write and play whatever they want. My ear's not sweating.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Contonis. I see here that the time has come for the rapporteurs and special speakers to have been too vigilant. I don't know if anyone wants to talk. From what I understand, Mr. Synthrakis wants to talk. Here, Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor a little while, because you too have exceeded time in your prototype...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, the agreement was that there should be a normal secondary. The other was another matter. Because there were personal reports too, you'll give me more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u209	Good. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Let me refer to Mr Lappa, who has returned to the crime scene again. He did the first project in the article, answered by us at second reading and reverted to the role and nature of the European Court of Human Rights. Everyone's views are respected, but Mr. Lappas has lost incidents. And SYRIZA's lost all episodes, not just Mr. Lappas. Are you aware of what you said about the role of the European Court of Human Rights after World War II in the 1950s, 1960s, that at that time there were completely different world correlations? Are you aware of this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u211	Of course. That's why I said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u212	So, others are the correlations at that time and others are the connections today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u213	That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u214	Then there was the Soviet Union. There was the global socialist system supporting the global revolutionary movements, highlighting human rights and, of course, the role of the European Court of Human Rights has had such features that you mentioned. However, this is not the case today, as is not the case with the United Nations. Why? Because one thing and the other have evolved into instruments and American imperialism and the European Union, that dictatorship of monopolies. I will tell you this: the European Court of Human Rights is part of the Council of Europe. What is a 'Council of Europe', where those you blame, that is, the neoliberal powers, do dominate. It is part, I repeat, of the Council of Europe. It may be that the European Court of Human Rights at times has made some positive decisions, such as the Manolada ruling, but it cannot in any event affect - and does not affect - the overall reaction line. In other words, the Council of Europe is increasingly reacting and its parts are therefore objectively involved. Unless that doesn't happen. They're relatives, that is. I would remind you, therefore, that the Council of Europe is becoming increasingly reactionary, which is seen by its decisions, such as those for the operation of the parties, for the economics of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u215	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u216	This is mainly aimed at the action of the Communist parties throughout the European Union and overturning labour relations. Indeed, it calls into question popular freedoms and rights. I would remind you of the role of this European Court of Justice in the bombing and partitioning of Yugoslavia in the very name of these human rights. So the rabies don't make the priest, Mr. Lappa. And I would remind you, in closing this matter, of the infamous decision of the Council of Europe - which, of course, did not concentrate the required majority, but recommended it - which dared to equate communism with fascism. This is therefore the role of the Council of Europe and part of it is the European Court of Human Rights. In relation to this issue - and I am addressing this issue - with Chapter V: I have referred to Article 33, because I have not had time in my initial position, which concerns the self-determination of crimes committed through the press. I also heard Mr Kontonis and the dialogue he had with the Minister. I would like to say that we shall be voting in favour of this article, Article 33. It is clear that, although it is not expressly stated that the regulation is introduced to deal first with the question of the application of the self-determination procedure to crimes committed through the press, it is finally chosen, after the debate that has taken place at times in and outside the House. It is a broader regulation to abolish the overall obligation on crimes of honour. It is, of course, in a positive direction, and that is why we are voting in favour of it. However, the general obligation of self-determination to crimes through the press remains unjustified, which is still provided for in Article 242 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which no longer imposes constitutional and poses serious problems for journalists. We, as a party, had called for the abolition of the amendment we tabled a few months ago. In any case, we are voting in favour of these points. In relation to the amendments - and I should like to close - I would like to say the following: We shall vote on the amendment concerning the operation of the ERCF. The amendment on independent appeal committees cannot be voted on. As a party, we disagreed with the involvement of judges in the administrative courts. It is a dual employment, an additional task of the current judges, to the detriment of their main task in administrative courts, and at the same time the administrative courts are responsible. We believe that the aim is to bring the chairmen into line with the committees. And for the Ministerial Amendment 1960/174 we will vote'residents'. In fact, we would urge you here to cover the empty organic positions and increase them to cover the gaps of the judicial officers. With regard to the parliamentary amendments, Amendment 1953/167, which deals with meeting the needs of the Koydallos detainee hospital with full coverage of the ESS, we will vote against it. I would remind you that with Presidential Decree 100/2018 the prison hospital joined the HR. Instead of serving this hospital with doctors of all specialties for the medical treatment of detainees, which must be of a permanent and stable character, the amendment of the SYRIZA MPs introduces the private doctor, i.e. the visitor of a private doctor on a case-by-case basis. So we cannot vote for it. And in the amendment on the presumption of innocence, we shall vote 'at present'. Any sentenced persons who have been irrevocably sentenced and who were tried by the ECHR could well ask for the grace of the President of the Republic. I pointed it out in the initial position, and now I would point out that, for example, if the Golden Dawn goes to the European Court of Justice and was acquitted, it could also ask the President of the Republic. So, they want much more attention to these issues. I'm closing up with the ELGA case on changing the status of correspondents. I would say this to you: Who are we talking about now? For the characterized ELGA, the non-payable ELGA, who raises money from farmers and works on a purely reward basis. He's hardly compensated for anything. We are talking about an unacceptable operating regime! And instead of going to solve these issues, you are bringing an amendment to a gossip, which does not solve any essential question on the basis of the demands of the blockages, the small and medium-sized farmers, which is to stop ELGA shaping and covering 100% of the losses suffered by our farmers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. Before giving the floor to Mr Saridis, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, twenty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd Kalamata High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let us inform the students and students that you are attending a Parliament meeting where a bill of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is being discussed. Members speak and then the vote will be followed and the bill will become the law of the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u219	Here, Mr. Lappa, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u220	I agree with Mr Syntagakis that the circumstances were indeed other when he became the European Court of Human Rights, the UN, the ECHR and so on. But, Mr President, these institutions founded by the world community when we came out of the madness of World War II, established them to have a future and not to change according to the political context. Because those rhetoric were void. And then it was good that the Soviet Union was and for us it was good, for the whole world it was good, for all mankind it was good, now it's not good, because there's no such awe. You know, these institutions, these two, when they're courts in particular, if they don't have time and perspective, they don't serve anyone. And you know why? Because when we vote on various laws, I must tell you that, according to the philosophy of law, the law is not fair, it is incomplete as a human creation. The law is just the tool to find the law, it's not the law. And that we can all understand. So the courts want it to be better, to satisfy societies, to satisfy social rights together with individual rights, to serve the democratic international community as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr. Lappa. Mr Saridis, a special speaker from the Centroon Union, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is advisable that I begin with a positive reference to the provisions of this bill, which concern the provision of free legal aid. How important it is to strengthen this institution of free legal aid to those of our fellow citizens who need it, to those of our fellow citizens who expect it, who have no money to pay a lawyer and to support their rightfulness, I have proved it in the budget. This free provision of legal aid also concerns over one million of our fellow citizens who are below the institutionalised poverty limit of EUR 5,400. I therefore welcome at this stage the Minister's initiative to start working on the issue by attempting to provide a solution, especially with regard to the payment of the lawyers involved in the procedure. It is very important to make it clear that the provision of free legal aid is guaranteed by the state, by the Hellenic Republic and not by the volunteering of citizens, and not by any means by the good soul of some lawyers, who can come to the courts to support the law of the people through their souls, through their hearts, without any reward. What concerns us today is, not what the state can offer, but what the Greek State has to offer. So what had to be done first was to ensure that in a reasonable period of time the remuneration was paid to the parties to the institutions. But from there on, Minister, you know that this is not enough. As long as there is the imputable income from which it is included in the proposal for a law, there is no justice. The five thousand four hundred euros are the set limit of poverty. As long as the pretext enters into the mind of judges when interpreting the law, you realize that there is a very great injustice, for a very large number of our fellow citizens. Who are the truly poor in that country, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be judged solely on the basis of the imputable income of each citizen. We are therefore waiting for the law to be strengthened, Mr Minister, enough, not for those who want to make a consensus divorce, but for those who are at war, in a relentless war with the collector companies, with the banks, who do not understand either hours of common peace or laws. With regard to the amendments to 1954 concerning the extension of the term of office of members of the ERCF, it is indeed trying to deal with another symptom of reorganisation, as treatment has not been guaranteed by political will. 'Paris' to this amendment by the Central Association, because we understand the problem, but we cannot understand why so many extensions are taking place. With regard to Amendment 1955 by the Ministry of Migration Policy, which seeks to regulate matters relating to how the independent committees of refugees are to be set up, we say yes, because it ensures that they have the quality of their work, giving the experience they have. Now, Minister, with regard to Amendment 1960 on the numerical errors in the provisions of Law 4509, we, Minister, will vote against this amendment. It concerns us in particular in the second paragraph of this amendment - and I would like you to clarify this in your position - where it stipulates that 'as many individual administrative acts have been adopted in the context of the execution of a booking shop supply contract and have concluded up to the publication of current regulations and for which the audit procedure by the Court of Auditors has not been complied with, they normally produce all their legal consequences'. That is what we would like you to clarify. It is also incomprehensible why we have so far reached the need for the necessary and supplementation of the provisions and Article 29 of Law 4587. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr Saridis, special speaker from the Centroon Association. Does any of the rapporteurs want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u224	I don't want to, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u225	Neither do I, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u226	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u227	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u228	Therefore, the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u229	I think that several of the very interesting issues which were raised during the committees were clarified. I will try a little bit to conclude with questions which I think are good for them not to remain unanswered. Humanitarian policy: Does the Council of Europe welcome the actions of the Greek Government over the last three years? Yeah. Were our country's detention sentences reduced to Greek detention stores? Yeah. Is there a plan? Is a plan of penitentiary policy implemented by that government, from 2015 onwards? At the same time as implementing the budgetary adjustment agreement, were there any attempts to address the problems of prison, which are, over time, problems that have been laken? And because it is not just infrastructure issues in a prison that are important, but is it also staff specialisation, staff reinforcement, cooperation with workers there, worker safety and security for the prisoners themselves, a job has been done over the last three years? Do we recognize her? Has the incarceration of minors been curtailed for three years? How many juvenile prisoners do we have right now? Ten. Is there a new regulatory framework for the implementation of the reform measure of social work? There is also the provision that we have discussed. Is there the administrative reorganisation of the Korydallos complex? Was Drama's detention store founded? Was the first KETHEA treatment community - Promethea in an autonomous ward in the prison in Thessaloniki? Has the first rural detention department been established? Did two closed wings in Chania and Nigrita Serres prisons that created and two hundred forty detention places? Presidential Decree 100/2018 on Integration into the ESS? Don't go on with that list. The Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Communities were signed yesterday. The recruitment of six hundred and thirty-nine young prison officers - two hundred and fifty-eight in Drama and three hundred and eighty-one in other prisons - has been approved and we expect the competitive process to be completed in the AACC, the 6K, which concerns the recruitment of five hundred eighty-eight penitentiaries. What did we hear today? You know, the context of political controversy is what I think everyone is finally judged, we are all judged. So if we want to talk about a penitentiary policy which tends only to grant permits or practical problems relating to agricultural prisons, I think we are staying behind in the debate. I think it is incomplete to inform us and, above all, to inform us of something that is as important as the penitentiary policy and the situation in prisons. If some believe that type III prisons were indeed a solution, the reality proved exactly the opposite. In addition to the creation of an individual prisoner bomb - after gathering indictments and sentences for very hard offences in the same prison - has it served in something other than any, say, dogmatic view of things or political view of the country's penitentiary policy? Do we remember when a particular prisoner was executed by a penitentiary and the facts of retaliation? When did this happen? When did they happen? During type III prisons. Did you forget about the helicopters that landed in the Corridal? When did this happen? The licenses granted? Good. We have to decide at some point which rule of law we are and which rule of law we are serving. When was the first authorisation granted to convicted of terrorist cases, the 187A trials? When was the permits granted? When? Were they given in 2008? Were they given in 2009? Were they given in 2010? When were those who served the sentence released? What do we want to do with them? Do we want to take their pictures, look at them and decide about the country's penitentiary policy on photographs, people who follow what the law says? I think we need greater seriousness, greater sobriety, less political confrontation, not to say spices. The issue of costs in the administration of justice has been heard, and it is a problem involving all citizens, a large social majority. I have told you, Mr Saridis, that I have said so publicly, to see legal aid again, of course. For every proposal, which is in the positive direction, the Ministry of Justice has the role of listening, consenting, working together. However, I would like to remind you of what has happened, so that we can see this 0.50 that eventually happened 0.40 and which is in the interests of what we have finally called e-Justice in this country and which is moving very quickly. It is also a work involving lawyers, judges and, of course, citizens. I would quickly remind you that with n 4446/2016, the fees and paradoxes were reduced for the first time in justice. We had a abolition of the judiciary in recognizing actions, we had a 50% reduction in the judiciary in the voters' actions, in labour disputes, a reduction in the tax advance tax differences for the admissibility of the appeal from 50% to 20%, plus all this work that was presented to us in the Ministry and which was extremely interesting. I think we should all watch it, we should all discuss it, we should all see it. This possibility of filing electronic documents, monitoring the procedure electronically, taking a decision, defining the right, the definition of the table, issuing the certificates - electronics, too, in order to prevent citizens from being troubled - is a very big task, which is going on. We will be informing, in particular, and we must also inform the judges and lawyers involved, who are being informed every day, but also the citizens. I will reach a final questionnaire that has emerged in the light of the current situation, which fortunately prevents us from doing so sometimes. That is why let me make these brief remarks. This bill is ultimately an institutional draft, in the sense of dealing with issues relating to integration, with the ratification of the protocol, with the principle of reciprocity, the principle of trust, our European acquis. Indeed, yes. So at least there was an agreement on these issues with the individual ideological political disagreements on the part of the Communist Party and possibly not just. It is also an institutional legislation, because it comes to address other issues that have to do with speed or quality in the administration of justice, with freedom of the press and so on. In that context, therefore, the good quality debate we have had has come to embody the issues of topical and urgent debate. Let us decide: is the political comment allowed on matters relating to justice or judicial matters? Are political comments allowed? We must decide, say 'yes' or 'no', not to say 'yes'. Not to come down to judging by two standards, not to introduce political aiming in one direction or another, into the political confrontation, not to emit contradictory signals. Is the political plan to intervene in the work of justice? Let's take it. Is it? Is that the intervention? Have we forgotten what has happened in this country? Have we forgotten the complaints of the past? Is the executive intervened in justice with political comments? Is the interference in light or darkness? Why are we confusing them? Why are we saying that political comment is a political statement, which certainly has to have a concrete measure, because the measure can also result in a result? I'm opening parentheses. I told you from the beginning that I wouldn't make the prosecutor, I wouldn't make the judge, I wouldn't make the prosecutor, I wouldn't make the witness, nor the defense attorney. If any Minister in writing sends to the head of justice and to the Ministry of Justice a complaint - a report on the delay of cases, is it an intervention? At a time when other political parties, MPs from other parties, and denounce judges who are in control of a particular case and if they arrive during this test to political persons, are following what the Constitution and the law provide for, in this regard, the ascension of people, judges and judges, the attacks against judicial officers are allowed? Why is this an unpleasant case? Finally with the 'NOVARTIS' case, which I will put for no reason on its essential and procedural issues, except for what has happened politically within this Chamber, is there a scandal in terms of invoicing medicines, not for persons, but as politicians? Was there or not there? Is there all that we read in relation to a global scandal in various countries, where all the political forces in the countries were concerned and said that there might be a political scandal? Something changed? Do we agree or do we not agree? If we say there's a problem and it needs to be investigated, what is that? Insulting judges? Insult, interference in justice? There is a parallel route from the Constitution and the law when political people are involved. The way has been planned, Article 86 has been discussed, we are also moving into a constitutional revision. Let us all be firm in our views on these issues, and let us not change our minds whenever we want to make an argument or an argument. I said two yards and two weights, because questions and topical questions are being asked, which refer to specific court cases and you have all done so. You have brought here to discuss a case pending in an interrogator and I told you that that time too. What are we doing? Did we become a court of law? When is the House of Parliament court and what powers the law and the Constitution call it? What do we do? Then there is no presumption of innocence for the persons involved? Why two yards and two weights? We have come to a point of order because - he says - three political persons, including the President of the Republic, have not been referred back - he says - the case has not been sent to justice without delay by the Court of Appeal of Athens in relation to the C4-I case, while the House itself has said that we do not send it back, because when the political system has been given the chance to take its measures, that is to say, to provoke pre-examination and the pre-interrogative may refer any persons and those involved, he has not done so, and that is why he has obviously fallen into the amortization deadline, and that is why he is no longer on the subject. Even that is why there was a question, and I asked myself what measures I would take against the judiciary. What's that? Isn't that an intervention? When was the country first condemned, once and only, by the European Court of Human Rights for violating the presumption of innocence? When? It's a well-known case. It is also written in the bill in the explanatory memorandum. It's the Consta case against Greece. Do we remember what happened then? For statements by which political persons were sentenced? On 11 June 2007, the Deputy Minister of Finance, during a debate in the Greek Parliament, referred to the trial in question, arguing that some Members of the Vice-Population had been examined as defence witnesses from the Kakourigiou court of Athens. The text reads: 'What are the indiscriminate people? The slanders, the well-known MPs of the Socialist Party and former PASOK ministers who ran to defend the Panteion's crooks? Were your personal and political friends or not? Didn't you appoint them as press minister, powerful ministers in the Council of Europe, when the Panteion scandals began to be known? They were your friends, ladies and gentlemen, and you ran to defend them before Parliament," the Minister of the New Democracy to the Parliamentary Group said to the PASOK MPs on 2 July 2007. These are included in the decision by Constas v Greece. The Prime Minister in 2007 referred to the scandal case, etc. and the Minister of Justice reported in February 2018. These reports led to the country's conviction. I would not continue this position if, in my opinion, we had not exceeded certain limits even in today's debate. We spent too many hours at the beginning of the procedure - you did not exactly forsake me - giving me the thought of what is going to happen with Mr Polakis's statements, about the reports on the conversation. I do not know and will not put the framework of the conversation if two individuals or the Bank of Greece's Governor are speaking with the Deputy Minister of Health. It is a political debate that can be held on this and which we can do, but not on this bill. However, we have had time for justice. We are now reading that there has been a prosecutor's order to see if it has been or has not been finished. So call it back. Those of you who have spoken of a para-state, of a rule of law which in this country has been abolished, have left no case left to torture public debate, which is not driven, when there is a reason to investigate, where it should be. When did this happen again? Who delayed justice? Why are large corruption cases tried in 2018 and 2019? How many years have they been foiling assumptions and for what reasons? I say: These cases, especially when they have political endings, are important and we must all take care of them, because there are issues of substance and of procedure and of technical issues, which the judges and prosecutors must investigate in depth and be brought to safe conclusions, that is to say, as provided for by the law, as long as they do not create any impression of immunity for any political person or the hostage status of political persons. Both are equivalent and are equally important. I think the political forces of the country and the previous governments have a lot to say and accountable. To end, then, this story about the rule of law. This country is a country of justice, justice breathes, moves forward, does what it has to do and when it hears excesses, or when he hears such political games, he usually turns his back. The problem for all is that people turn their backs and that is what we all have to be extremely careful about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Minister of Justice, Mr. Kalogerou. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is adjourned as follows: ‘I) Repeal of the Protocol No 16 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, II) Incorporation of Directive 2016/343 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016, III) Amendment of the Protocol on the application of Council Decision 2002/584/JHA of 13 June 2002 in the part amended by Council Decision 2009/299/JHA of 26 February 2009, IV) Application of Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 on the implementation of enhanced cooperation in the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, V) Provisions relating to the functioning and effectiveness of justice and other provisions and VI). We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of thirty-nine articles, of seven amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check or revise it by the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd Kalamata High School (Second Chamber). [[Change Page]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[SEL's coming in. 299A]] The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To tell students and students that we are at the end of a process of passed by the Ministry of Justice bill. Parliament's positions have been precedented, and we are now in the process of voting. As you know, the plenary has two main tasks. It is the adoption of laws, after discussing draft legislation, and the procedure for parliamentary scrutiny. In other words, the Members of all the parties, by means of a certain procedure, can control the facts of the government and come to the Chamber here in Parliament, ask questions, answer the Ministers, and there is a lively dialogue, which is also broadcast on television. Now what you see is a little disgraceful because we are in the voting process. The vote is taken by an electronic system, where those representing their parties can vote with touch screens and will soon get the result from the Services. Once you have completed the vote, please close the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u232	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system - and will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting - are as follows: By a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO PASSENGER: INTRODUCTION People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: NO Centro Association: COMMUNICATIONS Article 1 as acting by a majority SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: ASSOCIATES. Centro Association: YES Article 2 shall be by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 3 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 4 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 5 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 6 shall be by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 7 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 8 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO KIC: YES Centro Association: YES Article 9 shall act by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO KIC: YES Centro Association: YES Article 10 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO KIC: YES Centro Association: YES Article 11 shall be by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 12 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 13, acting by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 14, acting by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 15 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 16, acting by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: NO Centro Association: YES Article 17 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: NO Centro Association: YES Article 18, as amended, by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO PASSENGER: INTRODUCTION People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: NO Centro Association: COMMUNICATIONS Article 19 shall act by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: NO Centro Association: YES Article 20 shall be by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: NO Centro Association: YES Article 21 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: NO Centro Association: YES Article 22 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: COMMUNICATIONS Article 23 shall be by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 24 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 25 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: AUTHORITIES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO KIC: YES Centro Association: YES Article 26 shall be read by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO KIC: YES Centro Association: YES Article 27, as amended, by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO KIC: YES Centro Association: YES Article 28 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 29, as amended, by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 30, acting by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO PASSENGER: INTRODUCTION People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: COMMUNICATIONS Article 31 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: AUTHORITIES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO KIC: YES Centro Association: YES Article 32, as amended, by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO KIC: YES Centro Association: YES Article 33 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO KIC: YES Centro Association: YES Article 34 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 35 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: AUTHORITIES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Article 36, acting by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO KIC: YES Centro Association: YES Article 37 shall apply by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO KIC: YES Centro Association: YES Article 38 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO PASSENGER: INTRODUCTION People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO KIC: YES Centro Association: COMMUNICATIONS Ministerial Amendment 1954/168 as a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO PASSENGER: INTRODUCTION People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: COMMUNICATIONS Ministerial Amendment 1955/169 as a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO PASSENGER: INTRODUCTION People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Ministerial Amendment 1960-174 as it stands for a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: NO Parliamentary Amendment 1953/167 as a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO PISS: NO People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: NO Centro Association: COMMUNICATIONS Parliamentary Amendment 1956/170 as it stands by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES Parliamentary Amendment 1957/171 by a majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: YES PISS: NO People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: NO Parliamentary Amendment 1961/175 as it is majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: AUTHORITIES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: INTRODUCTION Centro Association: YES I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: AUTHORITIES YES: YES People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: NO Centro Association: COMMUNICATIONS The total majority. SYRIZA: YES New Republic: NO PASSENGER: INTRODUCTION People's Association - Golden Dawn: NO JRC: NO Centro Association: COMMUNICATIONS The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u233	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘I) Repeal of the Protocol under number 16 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, II) Incorporation of Directive 2016/343 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016, III) Amendment of Council Decision 2002/584/JHA of 13 June 2002 in the part amended by Council Decision 2009/299/JHA of 26 February 2009, IV) Application of provisions of Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 on the application of enhanced cooperation to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor, V) Provisions relating to the functioning and effectiveness of the Justice and Other Provisions and VI) Provisions concerning the functioning of the judiciary system and other provisions was accepted by a majority, to a single debate, on the principle, in whole and as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u235	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-19-S1-commons.u236	With the consent of the House at 18.15 a meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 20 February 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: a) legislative work, only debate and vote at the beginning, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Testing qualifications and behaviour of candidates for driving licences and drivers, other provisions on driving licences and other provisions" and b) waivers of immunity of MPs, etc. Istanbul Barbarousi and Georgios Kritsi, according to the special agenda that has been distributed to you.
