ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 19-2-2019 authorisation, the minutes of its PRACTICE sessions of Tuesday 19 February 2019 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau of the Executive Board, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘I) Determination of the Protocol under number 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, II) Incorporation of Directive 2016/343 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016, III) Amendment of Council Regulation (EC) No 3251/2004 in accordance with Council Decision 2002/584/JHA of 13 June 2002 on the Participation of the Council Framework Decision 2009/299/JHA of 26 February 2009, IV) Application of provisions of Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 on the implementation of enhanced cooperation on the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, V)]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 21 February 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 361/18-2-2018 by the New Democracy MP Mr Yoyakas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the issue of ‘Addressing requests for beneficiaries of the support measure for young farmers in 2009’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 373/19-2-2019 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “Dangerous “hot” in Apostlemi, in the Department of Gouves - Hersonissos.” 3. The question raised by Mr Christos Katsotis with reference to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the grant of the allowance for unhealthy work and the extension of the institution to other categories of workers. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 362/18-2-2018 by MP Magnesia of New Democracy Mr Christos Boukorous to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Restoration of the OSE plant in Volos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 359/18-2-2018 by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Michael Jeleigh, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "I bet the future of customs farming is uncertain". 3. The 342/11-2-2019 topical question by MP Fthiotis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Vettas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Tax problems relating to the non-successfulness of agricultural parcels". 4. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Andrianos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Great and unjustified delays in the process of implementing the extension of the Palain to Koutsopodi, Mycena, Monastery, Fichtia and Ermionida". 5. Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Commission. — (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Kegeroglou, on his excellent report. 6. The 354/12-2-2019 topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Image of the collapse of the irrigation network of the General Organisation for Improvement (GOB) Pineion - Alpheus". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 343/11-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Tsironis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The Single Food Control Body". 8. The 346/11-2-2019 topical question by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Reimbursements of potato growers Lower Neuroscope Dramas’. 9. The 356/12-2-2019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the attempt to prevent trade union activity and redundancies at Piraeus Bank. 10. The 337/5-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Problems of workers in business interests “Zoura”. 11. The 330/4-2-2019 topical question by Independent MEP, Evia Nikolaos Michou, Minister for Foreign Affairs, on "Continuance of persecution of members of the Greek minority in Albania". 12. The Question No 315/29-1-2019 by Independent MEP I of Athens Mr Spyridon Lykoudis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the conditions of the migrants' living and working conditions in New Manolad after the fire. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 284/21-1-2019 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: “Albanian street developments in the creation of “Greek Albania”. 14. Observed. The 280/17-1-2019 topical question by MEP I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "The administration of the Aegean is being promoted by the government." 15. The 260/9-1-2019 topical question by Piraeus I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways". 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The question by No. 261/9-1-2019 of the Greek People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and associations of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement". 17. The Question No 263/9-1-2019 by Congressman Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "Cazan ready to explode the Skopje state". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Harulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: “With zero supplementary provision, pensioners of the National Bank since November 2017.” 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 2688/22-10-2018 asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "To put in place immediately the possibility of adjusting debts up to a hundred and twenty instalments for the public and the insurance funds for all those who wish to regulate their debts".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Testing of qualification and behaviour of candidate drivers and drivers for the granting of driving licences, other provisions on driving licences and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 18 February 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u3	The House has agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Karastasis, has the floor for ten five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u4	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill regulating the thorny issues, as we have seen for many years all the citizens of the country who have been on the vehicle registration system. During the discussions in the committees, a fertile reflection has been developed and opinions have been exchanged on the subject, which have contributed until the last minute to the drafting of the bill. There have been several changes and suggestions. Several of these have been accepted and included in the final form of the bill, and here we need to highlight the reflexes of the relevant Ministry and the availability for creative cooperation of an important section of counter-population. Most importantly, however, I would like to point out that all the groups and also the bodies invited agreed, with their objections, of course on individual issues that a legislative section was necessary in the area regulated by the bill. They also agreed, again with their individual objections, to the pathogens that are called upon to raise the draft law, and most importantly, they agreed without objections to the main purpose, which is no other than to raise the level of road safety. Of course, the New Democracy colleagues, as they have always done when a bill is in place with which they agree, but they do not want to admit it, told us that if they were the government, they would do better. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Greek editorial, this is called a hypothetical reason for both the first part and the second part, because you are not, or will not be, at least soon, a government. Nor would you, of course, have done so better if we were to judge what you did in the decades that you had the opportunity. In any case, we did not hear at all the meetings, even one proposal on your part, which, in your view, would correct the bad texts of the bill and solve problems that you recognised exist. So, leaving aside Utopian affairs and before going to the legislative analysis, so that there are no misunderstandings and, above all, that there are no wrong impressions on the people, but that they should not be unduly targeted, I would like to reiterate our position as expressed in the discussions that have been preceded by both the Minister and colleagues. For us, it is clear that the current regime in the system of issuing or renewing driving licences has now gone beyond what is desirable. In the area, complexity and corruption have arisen, while the examinations have been conducted in the same way for decades, without the use of modern means and technologies, thus being of dubious credibility. We believe that with the innovations introduced and using the electronic means of audiovisual recording at every stage of testing and the draws provided for the selection of examiners and the definition of the pairs of examiners - the examinations will have tangible positive results in terms of transparency and integrity in this area. The rapporteur for Officerial Response said that the procedure introduced will not hit corruption and complexity. Ladies and gentlemen, in all the countries of the world, all over the world, where there are people and trade, there is the possibility of corruption and of interlocutory. We are not suddenly discovering the wheel or hot water, nor are we saying that the next day these phenomena will be completely eliminated. We are, however, prepared to limit them to the minimum possible. We believe that with the arrangements of the draft law mentioned above, we will achieve it. Our aim is to tackle road accidents definitively. Also, our goal is zero corruption. The device for not presenting the instructor on the vehicle during the examination shall not relate to the possibility of a suspected transaction. It is about creating conditions similar to those experienced by the new driver after obtaining the driving licence. For us it is clear that he should be ready to drive himself before the examination begins. Otherwise, he won't be ready either. And the consequences of this may be tragic. To close my general reference to the bill and its objectives, I would like to stress that this government has taken action last year to introduce the road safety lesson into schools. We started piloting, and now this measure will be generalised. I come now, ladies and gentlemen, to the provisions of the draft legislation under discussion. Generally necessary upgrading and improvement of the existing system of qualification tests and behaviour of candidate drivers and drivers wishing to renew or extend the driving licence to another category, as well as the theoretical examinations, shall be carried out by the arrangements established and, firstly, providing for the conduct of the qualification and behaviour tests as the principal and sole work of the examiners. Secondly, the test procedure without the presence of the instructor in the training vehicle. Thirdly, the creation of specially designed spaces or believers to carry out the specific tests of qualifications and behaviour of the candidate drivers. Fourthly, to carry out the specific tests by the candidate without the presence of the examiner in the training vehicle. Fifthly, specific tests are carried out using an electronic system for automatic recording of procedures and automatic extracting the results. Sixth, developing a system of supervision and control of trainers, conducting the theoretical examinations and examinations of qualifications and behaviour through audiovisual media to ensure transparency and the continuity of the process. Seventhly, to take action to correct and improve the work of either re-education, re-accreditation and temporary or definitive removal from the work of the offenders or inappropriate examiners. Eighth, continuing evaluation of trainers and examiners. Ninth, the annual selection of examiners, the quarterly draw of the active persons and the immediately before examination of the draw of both examiners and examiners. In this connection, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work is a very important one. I also consider the points of the draft law to be important, firstly, the introduction of the combination of driving for young candidates following completion of the seventeen years of age, taking into account the existing in European Union states with an advanced level of road safety, secondly, the amendment of Article 27 of the AD 455/1976, so that in the definition of rural parking the necessary positions are reduced to five - 10 - and the introduction of procedures for the approval of sustainable urban mobility plans to meet the needs for human mobility and the transport of goods in urban areas and their surroundings, naturally improving the quality of life. These plans shall be drawn up either by the municipalities or by the regions concerned. Finally, I note that this draft law achieves compliance with the provisions of Regulation 168/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the approval and supervision of the market in two, three and four-wheel vehicles and regulates from 1 May 2018 and up to three months after the start of the applicable law to perform the task of testing qualifications and behaviour of candidates after the end of the normal working hours of the public services and beyond the time covered by overtime with a monthly compensation payment. This is the issue, which has created the huge problems which the regional officials did not take part in the examinations and created a thousand million problems. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has become clear - I think - that the draft legislation under discussion is aimed at modernising the system of granting driving licences with the incorporation of the possibilities offered by new technologies and through it to tackle the corruption that has become a endemic phenomenon in this area and, of course, the rise - which is more important - of the level of road safety in our country. I will once again say that this is a modern, innovative bill, which I am sure will fully fulfil the purpose of its drafting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mr Katsaniotis, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Katsaniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport distinguishes itself from two main features, its problematic forecasts and regulations and its pretext. I shall shortly be referring to the problematic arrangements, but first of all, I shall refer to the pre-formative nature, which I consider to be the major political and moral issue. I am speaking of a pretext for two reasons: firstly, because transparency and modernisation of driving tests are being used as a pretext for the Ministry to provide a solution to the payments of the overtime employment of officials employed as examiners in the transport directorates of the regions. And secondly, because if one accepts that corruption and the circuits of driving diplomas are the ones that are really interested in the Minister, it is reasonable to wonder why he is doing so now, because for four years he has been indifferent and inactive. He didn't know? Incompetence or indifference or both? Let the Minister answer us. But there's something else. The Minister comes to committee, comes to the media and talks about corruption, widespread corruption. Thousands of driver schools, their employees and families are targeted. He is once again the guardian of order and morality. So let us answer what he did for four years. And if that's the attitude of a responsible government and a minister to tell us. Doing Hercules Poirot? Let us make something clear, neither I nor anyone else in the New Democracy will claim that the system is indestructible and inconsistent, nor that there is a need for changes. In the past, however, the New Democracy has taken the necessary steps towards a comprehensive approach, not only to the examinations but also to education. I will remind you, for example, of the period 2008-2009. The then Minister for Transport, Mr Stylianidis, in collaboration with the Eugenetic Foundation, had actually proceeded with the preparation of a new simplified, updated manual for training and examination of signals, so that even foreigners, illiterates, people who have problems, dyslexics, can give tests and in an easy way take driving licences and have been results. And what happened after Mr. Reppas came to the Ministry? I imagine you know Mr. Reppa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u7	Very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u8	That's what I'm saying. He withdrew this particular manual. The transaction's back off, Minister. And remind you of something else, since you like electronic platforms. In 2014, Mr. Papadopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u9	Not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u10	Michalis Papadopoulos, Samaras government. You would never be in a Samara government. Then he had actually brought the law through which electronic examination was started in the theoretical tracks. Through this law, Minister, and its application you could do a lot of things. This law is essentially the one who brought to light all these issues interactive, through its own applications, through the procedures that he has provided for in order to assess examiners and drivers' schools. Through this law all those who are currently accused of stranding and corruption on the issue of driving licences were found. And you four years, what did you do? You looked at them. You didn't apply him. You didn't want to apply him. Your goal was to serve and settle things, not really change, and actually the way to look into them. Why do you bring in a way of examination that - we have to tell you - you have to tell us where it is being implemented. What countries do you propose? For the previous way, I will remind you that small variations are applied in the Netherlands, France, Germany. Your way of examing, Minister? Nowhere. That's it: Patenta. The need to modernise the process of obtaining driving licences through impeccable procedures is a necessity for the New Democracy, which is in favour of these efforts over time. For New Democracy, however, this issue is part of the big chapter called 'road safety', which includes the need for a holistic approach to traffic education in the country, starting from kindergarten and reaching the examinations of diplomats and the reviews of the elderly. And this big chapter will not be dealt with by blaming a large part of professionals and civil servants, but by helping and helping the majority of those people who are honest and moral. And this majority have every reason to want to get rid of a small 'broken' minority. That is why the bill we are discussing, ladies and gentlemen, is directly problematic and unacceptable from the outset. It is unacceptable, however, as far as the regulations it proposes are concerned. It's really moving the whole thing into driving schools. It does not touch the piece called education at all, and it provides for twenty-four ministerial decisions to implement its provisions, creating a problem of effectiveness. To be more specific, among the key elements of the bill are the following: first, the examiners are employees of the regional transport directorates who are carrying out the test of qualifications and behaviour within the hour and within the time of overtime, i.e. without additional fees. And I wonder: have you, Minister, addressed the regions, so that you know whether the transport directorates have the necessary staff? Let's go further, though. The bill provides that the examiners will only come to the examinations by driving schools, but within the vehicle, during the examination, the instructor may not be present. In addition, every educational vehicle involved in the examination should have a mandatory internet connection to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport control centre, as well as to a microphone with a microphone showing the entire vehicle cabin or motorcycle uplifting positions and during the examination it will be interconnected continuously with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport control centre. And to say it more simply: the state forces driver schools to get into this investment. And we ask: Since there will be a camera in the vehicle, what is the problem of presenting the instructor? Is that where the transaction takes place? Within the time of the examination, the Minister believes that the transaction is taking place, so does the instructor have to change? Based on what specifications will cameras and microphones be installed? To what extent do all this conflict with the protection of personal data? And what we have said from the outset, what will happen if there is no signal or no interruption in the transmission and electronic recording of the examination? So try to solve a problem and create another ten. Let's still see why the bill isn't applicable. Initially, it provides that driving procedures will be carried out in specially designed areas or on tracks for the training and examination of candidates, since one of the twenty-seven ministerial decisions setting out the details of the trails are adopted. However, how many trails are there in Greece and what does "specially designed spaces" mean? How will such spaces be formed and what is the cost? Another information system is also set up in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, since, of course, the instructors first establish within four months of the Ministerial Decision the equipment provided for in the bill. Why will the Ministry do this in 12 months after the beginning of the present? A similar information system was also provided for in the Taxi Companies Act adopted in March 2018. We arrive in March 2019 and the system does not exist. A corresponding system was also provided for in August 2016, another information system that again does not exist. I have a feeling, Minister, that what you are most interested in is making information systems at the Ministry of Transport. You have envied Mr. Pappa. Unfortunately, no one is working until now. We're going back to the trainers. The instructors will enter a foreign property car with another instructor's student. And if he doesn't want to enter a foreign car with another trainer driver, what's going to happen? What happens, Minister, when the exams start, where you say - listen, listen! - there won't be two examiners, but there'll be an examiner without any cameras. And if the instructor doesn't want to get into someone else's car, what's going to happen? Nobody knows. The afflictors who've been trying to get a license for so many months know. Minister, trails we don't have, an information system we don't have, an escort instructor most likely don't have, also during the course examination. What do we have? Another inapplicable law with ambiguities and generalities and legislative provisions that will never be verified and will never apply. In the intervening period, there must be sanctions for prostitutional offenders, Minister. However, the sanctions provided for in the draft are subject to disproportionate and unequal treatment of the parties involved. The bill also refers to the accompanied driving of the seventeen-year-old candidate drivers who will receive the normal driving licence to eighteen, if they have not fallen into any infringement. So, Minister, a seventeen-year-old is mature to vote, while on the contrary he is not ready to drive. I would also like you to tell me, Minister, which country of the European Union, with the exception of Great Britain, which had been, therefore, customarily, the case, does this measure apply? No one. So you are bringing a measure which, in fact, does not apply again to any European country, the combination of driving. Another issue is the pitifulness that you have reserved for examiners by the Ministry and Government. The bill provides for a monthly compensation of EUR 240 for examiners from 1 May 2018. But for so long you have held the examiners hostages, fifty thousand citizens who could not take a driving licence because they did not carry out tests. We recall that the payment of the overtime compensation to the examiners was interrupted by Law No.4354/2015, which provided for entry into force as from 1 January 2016. The Ministry tabled the amendment that solved the problem, but immediately after withdrawing it. Subsequently, by law in 2016, the Government transferred the problem for June 2017, then for December 2017 and at the end of April 2018. Then he pledged that the bill that solved the problem would come to Parliament last November. And while we as the New Democracy through the relevant department had tabled questions underlining the government procrastination and enlargement of the problem, you arrived to bring this bill in mid-February 2019 shortly before the elections. If that's not a mockery, what is it? Let us talk, Minister, about the people who are over seventy-four years old. There was an institutionalised formation of the secondary committee by the transport services of the regions of the country. You abolished it. And since for some time there has been a gap, you are coming and you are prescribing that the interested would visit doctors in state hospitals or state health centers in the framework of their full-day operation or private doctors with an additional fee. You come back then and say that because these papers they take are not considered reliable, they should re-examination. Tell me, Minister, which country of the European Union is the ones who are over seventy-five years old? What is needed for these people, Minister, is to see if they really have the opportunity to drive. Examinations by these people do not give any country in the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u11	You have voted for it, Mr Katsaniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Spirtzi, you are Orwell's hero in 1984. The "Ministry of Truth" you know? It was founded then. It is the 'Ministry of Truth' in which you would be, if you were Orwell's hero in 1984, 'Minister of Truth'. If I count the ambiguities and the lies you told the committees, they pass the fingers of both hands. What you're going to have to tell us, Mr. Spirtzi, is whether the people who are seventy-five years old should be able to find out if they can drive. Yes or no? That's the question. Are you going to answer us? In what other country are these people troubled by re-examination? No one, Mr. Spirtzi. You are even presenting the electronic draw made for examiners as an innovation. There's always been. It was always predicted. You didn't bring anything new. Once again, you're lying one more time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr President, I will still need to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u13	Please, time has passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u14	You are opening another window, Mr. Minister, serving with this law, customer relations and stepping-by-step. You increase by 20 people the number of audit posts of the Ministry, and you create three additional posts of consultants or experts. Given that the College of Inspectors serves persons with increased qualifications, what does this move serve, in addition to the satisfaction of customer relations? The same questions apply to the provision which consists of three positions of lawyers with a leased order. Finally, sustainable mobility plans are being established, the CVAs. In fact, the philosophy of the CVA is to change the prevailing culture of performance in the car and this is a key statement and it requires clear wording.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u15	Please, Mr. Katsaniotis, respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u16	Yes, but I still have two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Karastasis spoke ten minutes. You spoke seventeen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u18	Imagine that I will not talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u19	You have one more minute. Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u20	Finally, since time is pushing us, I would like to say, Minister, that you know that this law will not be implemented. You know that in fact you are legislating without being able to apply any of the things you are legislating for. Stop bothering all the young people who want to get a degree. Stop bothering all those who are seventy-five years old and over and you'll make them run tests. Stop targeting driver schools and trainers who do their job very well. Stop caring for the trainers. Stop using all the tools of the ugly past to justify the future. We don't deserve to behave like this. Let us all decide how to train and examine drivers so that we do not mourn dead. That is the point, but even on that, Minister, you are not doing anything. In any case, yesterday you said that Easter would start the Patras to Tower at the Tower. You didn't tell us which Easter, because it's been three since you thought it was starting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u21	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u22	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much. I would like to make a request to the Bureau. On 30 March 2018, if I remember correctly, Law 4530 was passed. I would ask you very much to give Mr Katsaniotis the Minutes, to see what his party voted for, to stop mentioning the inaccuracies he has mentioned, since for over seventy-four years the New Democracy has voted for the provision. Because, on all matters, the New Democracy, either per rapporteur or per month, or depending on what the moon is like, forgets, it is good to give Mr Katsaniotis and the New Democracy the Minutes, to remember what he did in March, not twenty years ago, now, a few months ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u24	Taxi was about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u25	You can tell that in your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u27	Impressions again, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Casaniotis, you can't take the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u29	This is not a parliamentary procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u30	The Minister spoke. Who is the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u31	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u32	You, Mr. Kefaliannis, want to say something, so we don't have an interactive conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u33	I will tell you in my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u34	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u35	This is not a procedure, Mr President, for the Minister to reply to the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u36	He has the floor for a special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Maniotis, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u37	Today we are discussing a bill of sad government, a government of decline, sepsis, vulgarity, a government whose Prime Minister appoints as State Secretary a man who a few weeks ago called himself a destiny. It is a government of right-wing and other perpetrators, a government whose personal dignity is rewarded with a three-month term of State Secretary. It's a government we don't deserve! It is a government that must quickly account to the Greek citizens to assess its course! Today we have a bill ahead of us, which is supposed to be dealing with corruption and complexity. And this is done in a government that has two coincidences. The first coincidence is that her head is the longest-lived Memorial Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. The second coincidence is that Minister for Transport is the longest-lived Minister for Transportation, Christos Spirtzis. And we are discussing a bill - after four years of absolute non-existence of any move - which from the first article shows him to be a clipboard, a bill written on the leg. Do you know what the purpose of the bill is, for which we are here, according to the first article of the bill? The purpose of the bill is to build specific screens for examination of candidate drivers. That's what the first article of the bill says. And I ask any fellow Greeks and any Greek citizen: did it take us to wait four years to come to a bill that tells us that he would like to build tests for candidates, without the corresponding study being carried out, without the corresponding technical specifications being established, without the funds with which such trails will be built in the prefectures of the country? We are talking about such a system that, instead of really fighting corruption and complexity, instead of actually improving driving conditions, is now coming the Minister, and in a perfectly rough and dead-end way he is trying to target social groups and actually not to solve any problems. What kind of bill do we have in front of us? We have a bill that does not confront that there is the same system of examination in theoretical courses for twenty years. We have a bill that does not confront that the book with which the candidate drivers learn driving behaviour has been written for twenty years and has not undergone any improvement. We have a bill that does absolutely nothing to improve the reliability of the examinations. And, of course, we also have a bill that finds the easy solution: strict, exterminating penalties, when it is known that there can be a very difficult body which will impose this kind of penalties on justice and transparency. We have a bill burdening the Greek citizen with 50% increase in the harm he will pay, without this money in any way rewarding them. They're just going to the black hole in the Treasury. The EUR 20 million currently collected by the Treasury will be made tomorrow, due to the rise in the evil, EUR 30 million, and almost none of them will return to road safety. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate in committee we have tabled our proposals in detail. I will not repeat these proposals here today. I would stress, however, that there is a huge need for a complete modernisation of the whole system to prevent road accidents in the country, part of which is the examination of candidate drivers. We therefore have a bad bill, the only positive element of which is that it enables the examination of the candidate drivers to be transmitted in real time to the central computer system of the Ministry of Transport. But here, there is a huge question: When the friend of Minister of Transport, Mr Spirtzi, and the competent Minister of Digital Policy, Mr. Nikos Pappas, cannot proceed for four years with the programme on digital signatures in the public sector, when the EUR 19 million project was recently cancelled, which would bring a first improvement to the public administration, with what courage is a bill telling us that the hundreds of candidates' tests, which will be carried out throughout the country, will be monitored in an 'organised' way by some nonexistent monitoring centre of the Ministry of Transport, which, in fact, will also be able to impose penalties? As this is an absolutely impracticable bill, the only solution is - even now, at the last minute - that the Minister listens to the proposals we have put forward so that we can avoid the enormous failure of this bill as well. And what are the big issues we have in front of us? "We have a solution to the problem. When a candidate driver goes to consider, his instructor should be out of the car." And we asked very simply: a candidate truck driver is being examined in a truck and only the candidate driver is in it, and only the examiner, who has not been trained to prevent any unlucky movement of the candidate driver. So this truck is circulating on the streets around the rest of the IX, causing an accident, killing a man. Is there going to be security in that training vehicle? Insurance companies refused to come in when we invited them, because there is no insurance product to insure a training vehicle, the owner of which is absent and leads to a man who has not yet obtained a diploma. Is that obvious? Clearly! But it seems that certain purposes need to be served. The second basic point is: The bill provides for continuous and uninterrupted transmission of digital data through cameras in the educational vehicle, directly to the Ministry. If for some technical reasons the uninterrupted connection is interrupted, will the instructor be punished? Will the vehicle be punished? Will the examiner or the candidate be punished? Who? We have said very clearly in a USB that there should be registration and at some point, in next year, we should assess whether this examination was done in a transparent and rational manner. We suggest something specific to the Ministry. There's internet ads going around that for the twenty-one theoretical lessons and for the twenty-five minutes if you pay 159, you're allowed to run tests. I would like to ask the honourable Member's common sense: for the twenty-five minutes, how much fuel will the educational car burn? And it's 20 theoretical lessons. So all this will be done at the fee of the instructor only EUR 159? Obviously, the basic problem of corruption is the government underneath the carpet because it refuses to put some elementary thresholds with one logic and the instructor can be taxed completely and, respectively, the learner can be taxed. To go back to the main objective of the bill. What does the bill say? It says that all of this is done to examine specific tracks that will be formed, candidate drivers, to find out if they are good vehicle operators. Why didn't you make a single track for four years, Minister? Why haven't you done anything for four years? Why do you throw the ball at it anyway next, after you, Minister for Transport, implement an absolutely inappropriate system for examining candidates and examining candidates for drivers? Where is the practical step on which you will base your own substantial proposal? Ladies and gentlemen, the whole system that we are now discussing for many months has been totally inappropriate. There are more than seventy thousand Greek citizens who are waiting for an examination, because there are no examinations and there are more than fifteen thousand of our fellow citizens over seventy-four years who are waiting to renew the diploma and that is also not this renewal because that is precisely what has been happening in the past few months. So we ask directly: what about the citizens over seventy-four years of age who want to renew their diploma? If the presence of the instructor is indeed the element of corruption and of interactivity for the rest of the drivers, why are there no cameras in the IX car that will be considered by the candidate over seventy-four years? Imagine the scenario: Without a camera, without any surveillance, without any control, in the car being the over seventy-four and the examiner, i.e. the greenhouse of corruption, because no one will control anyone! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate in committee we tabled twenty-four specific proposals. The Minister has pledged several of them to incorporate them in the bill. We do not actually see one. Mr Spirtzis has the power to include at least some of the proposals we have made, so that Greek citizens, too, can feel fairness, transparency and dignity when considering getting their diplomas, but at the same time there is no problem in a professional group, such as candidates' trainers and another social body, which is the candidates' examiners. These are the two groups that have been targeted by the Minister. The answer lies in absolute transparency, realism and the allocation of specific funds, so that this system, which we are discussing today, can be done without delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the Educational Programme of the Republic of Cyprus, organized by the Foundation of Parliament, seventeen students and students and two fellow professors from the 4th Taurus Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Shahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Before entering the draft law, I will be allowed, Mr President, through you, to correct the previous speaker, Mr Maniotis. Mr Manatis, it is not 'Syrizorexia'. It is "PassokoSyria". You're all PASOK. Together you have confronted the New Democracy. The ministers you're addressing are yours, PASOK, both of you. You should know that at least three hundred in here, except for the nationalist movement, all the rest of you are PASOK or a party. I now come to the present draft law. This draft law does not in any way cure the problems in the area of driving licences, nor does it ensure the sound and transparent system. Minister, what should initially concern you, would be in second time to have a better system of qualification tests and candidate driver behaviour. In fact, it would be pleasurable and feasible, I would say, if you would prioritise the quality of the school education provided. You know that in very few schools from the first steps, they are being implemented - even in information, I would say - some actions for correct circulation. If all of these were to be put on a better basis and at more regular intervals, the results would be much better. We would certainly grow more responsible adult drivers and traffic accidents statistics would have been drastically reduced. As I said at previous meetings, it is a good intention for the legislator to implement new technologies through audiovisual instruments for testing qualifications and behaviour of candidates for drivers and drivers, but the absence, as I said, of the instructor and examiner from the vehicle is criminal. Of course audiovisual material would be useful, as I have said in the committees - something that has not yet been accepted by the Minister - to be delivered to the examiner if it is rejected so that he can see what mistakes he made during his examination and be able to correct them. All this will, of course, be at its own exclusive financial burden. Nowhere has there been any mention of the cost of supplying such equipment in relation to the training vehicle. You ask within four months, as I mentioned in the committee, for driver schools to be equipped with educational vehicles - with cameras and microphones and even fully operational. But your ministry will be ready in 12 months. There is therefore a discrepancy between the two involved. We don't understand why. We also do not understand how these costs will be covered. It would be reasonable for the twelve months to apply to both parties in one trial period - as I said - as far as the proper functioning of the audiovisual media is concerned. It goes without saying that the cost I mentioned before will be borne by the school owners. However, given the financial difficulties that exist, this will be passed on to the parties concerned. With regard to the teacher's absence, we said - and we will say again - that we are vertically opposed. I will make another comment here. I told you that the transitional period for the operation of the computer system is four and twelve months. At the moment, however, seventy thousand candidate driver cases are pending. How will these people be examined immediately without the presence of the instructor? Do you think there's enough temporary fitness leave on the part of the instructor, who theoretically assumes responsibility? We're not talking about a few. We are talking about seventy thousand candidates who, if they cause a car accident or if they are still the victims of a car accident because of their wrong reaction, a wrong legislative thinking, will not have the insurance cover. As far as the performance of one third of the exams in the region is concerned, it is very small indeed, considering that the region is basically responsible for the full responsibility of infrastructure and staff for carrying out the examinations. The percentage should be higher or attributed to local government as a whole. I also believe that the responsibility of the instructor and examiner is wrong if the signal is interrupted and there will therefore be insufficient data transmission during the examination. We live in a country - as I have told you in the committees, Minister - where electronic platforms are 'flying' at any time and at all times the signal is being 'cut off' all the time. No one can predict it, but neither can ensure that there is an uninterrupted transmission of data. Unless you're aiming to provide a better equipment from all sides. In this case you should tell us whether you have already received offers from companies that will provide them, so that we can also have an idea of economic size. Find us an alternative to this issue of data transmission and liability efficiency, because this issue will cause too much problems. In one case the examiner or the instructor may not be responsible for discontinuing the trade mark. With regard to drivers over seventy-four years of age we have already expressed our opinion and we will repeat it: there will have to be a reflex test and, of course, pass through specific doctors' specialties, such as ORL and neurology. Perhaps so, in a way, there can be a safeguard. Unfortunately here, we should also mention a car accident that has taken place relatively recently in Thessaloniki and has widely released the press. In fact, the title of the publications was: "Old-year-olds carried three pedestrians into the center of Thessaloniki". In these articles we read that the driver lost control of the vehicle while attempting to get into a parking space and as he said to the wheelchairs, he did not understand how the car left his control. Unfortunately, such incidents occur daily, sometimes with light and sometimes with heavier injuries. No one can claim, however, that this man did not know how to drive. Also, we could invoke the unfortunate moment. We would, however, be naive if we were not to overlook and example, so that the necessary measures could be taken to avoid mourning victims. The corresponding risk is, however, both in the case of seventeen years and in the case of accompanied driving. The safety test you set for your escort from a person who has an active driving licence is not enough. First, who will take responsibility for an accident when he is not a guardian of this person and is just a known one? Secondly, he may indeed have a driving licence but has never used it and therefore has no practical experience of the proper handling of the situation. The attendants should be guardians of the 17-year-olds and pass through a type of educational seminar and at the end be certified by exams whether they are capable or not. This certification would have a specific duration and should be continuously renewed. In addition, vehicles should not exceed a certain infrastructure - cubic - and it would be right to adopt the proposal of the Brigadier General of the Attica Directorate for the installation of a different special mark. But that's not enough too. There are other issues that need to be resolved, which must be seen before teenagers become a moving public risk together with the eighty-year-olds, as I said, and the ninety-year-olds. But let us see what the issues of combating corruption are. On the one hand, it will be good that there will be supervision and evaluation of trainers and examiners, especially following complaints from candidate drivers and drivers, but the sample check cannot be said to be covering us, as the rate will be determined by a ministerial decision. On the other hand, how can you say on the fight against the corrupt system and on transparent procedures, when you are recommending the College of Auditor Inspectors with very specific positions and specialties, which will obviously be served by your own people and individuals, as well as so many other services from the various ministries and independent authorities? That is why we are not saying that we should become an independent authority, because, quite simply, it will not be independent and there will therefore be absolutely no fight against corruption. In conclusion, this draft law could lay better foundations for candidate drivers and drivers, so that the system is more effective, inconsistent and inconsistent. It's quite ambitious, but, unfortunately, it's inappropriate. The main reason why you bring it is the question of compensation for examiners. Once again, however, this provision is lost in the rest, undermining its importance. And, of course, the present provisions do not ensure that such situations are not created again, especially since we are talking about exclusive employment experts. In practice this will not work and the examinations will be carried out again with overtime. You are creating new conditions, without having taken the first and the basic steps to allow society to accept these changes, to have a driving culture and to have the right time to move. The Ministerial Decisions are already many and you have found the solution even in legislators to say that the relevant issues will be defined with your own ministerial decisions, so that you do not always bring us any amendments. Of course, we cannot comment that the application time is after your own governance has expired. So the next ones should see how to correct your own mistakes or your own omissions. You actually want to bring in an innovation, without thinking about the consequences, without any concern to you what will happen in twelve or twenty months from now. I would say quite irresponsible to you on such an important safety issue. From there on, the other provisions require revision, because there are several problematic points which we have already raised and to which we shall refer again to in plenary. Mr President, let me also refer to the topical and urgent subjects of major importance. Over the last few days, we have seen that all the media have been dealing exclusively with the "pastification", I would say, of SYRIZA. What makes us impression is how it is done while flirting with PASOK by executives and voters, that the populist companies continue to give it high percentages and sometimes third power. I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen of this Chamber, on 8-2-2015. From this step the Prime Minister had made the new government's programming statements. You will remember very well all of you - and those of you who were not Members, like me - of the conversation that the Prime Minister said would be every word of the Constitution. Today we have reached SYRIZA and the rest of the constitutional arch to be every word of the Criminal Code with your behaviors and violations you make every day in articles and paragraphs of the Constitution, articles and paragraphs of the Rules of Procedure. And I will remind you of the first violation of the Rules of Procedure of the House, ladies and gentlemen, when you refused, on the basis of Rule 6(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the position of Vice-President and the election of a secretary. It expressly and unequivocally writes it. You have opted for and humiliated, as I have repeatedly told you, parliamentaryism with your attitudes, not just now, over time. Let's not be fooled. It's not just the attitude of your Minister, Mr. Polakis. You will remember the "Kalpoyannis" who had dived the call from here and left. You will remember very well what had happened when a member of the New Democracy, within this Ethiopia, had his hand pulling the gun he had in his area. And you mind Golden Dawn! Really, how liars and hypocrites are you! New Democracy has forgotten the raids of the 'Centauris' and the 'Rangers'. He's forgotten his own invasion orders. He has forgotten the Communist Party the KNATs, which, if necessary, also guard Parliament. You forget your own raids of anarchist and reasonings, which, on the basis of your statute, you officially have them in your party. He writes your components and closes writing other collectives. So you're the party! You have all deceived the so-called 'constitutional arch', the Greek citizens. Today you do not represent the Greek people, because you have said other things. Neither electorally nor in your programme statements from any of the other parties - except Golden Dawn - you did not inform the Greek people of what you were determined to vote and implement. You never mentioned Macedonia's sale anywhere. You have never spoken anywhere - except for the outgoing President of Parliament, when he had informed the President of the Republic - of the granting of sovereign rights. You have never said, in any of your statements, that you will bring memos, capital controls and the poorness of the Greeks. You didn't say you were going to bring unemployment. You never mentioned that we would have a terrible unemployment system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. No one mentioned it, but you have all voted, the building of the mosque, the cohabitation pact, the separation of State - Church, as you did not tell the young children that once they have studied and obtained a degree, they will be forced to leave as immigrants abroad to find jobs, because these jobs are taken by illegal immigrants, to whom you have opened the borders. And you continue the mockery of Greek citizens with misgivings and a donation policy, which, unfortunately, brings results. Because you have reached the point where you have made many Greeks wait a month for an allowance and a help from the state. We have remained faithful to our ideas and policies. We have proved in over six and a half years of our parliamentary presence that we are working for the benefit of Greek citizens alone. When we reject drafts of law, we put in place, argue, and explain why we are voting against drafts of law or amendments, but at the same time, because we are not zero, we are also making proposals to what we are not voting for. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Whenever it was necessary in draft laws and in amendments to agree, we did so because we do not have party bumpers and we think - as I said before - of the good of the Greek people alone. So, with the good of our country and Greek citizens, we continue our parliamentary presence. But those, ladies and gentlemen, of the Greek Parliament, forget about them. We shall vote against both the principle and the articles of the draft law you bring to the vote. We cannot in any way legalise your Government after the sale and betrayal of Macedonia's name. Forget it. We were and we will be the only true guarantee for the hopes and dreams of the Greeks. We were and we'd be the guardians, but also the nightmare of the bridesmaids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and three educational sessions from the 7th General School of Peristeri. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Steriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. At the outset of the draft legislation, we are voting 'at present' because we believe that it does not address the major problems that are present in the system of education and examination - the granting of marketing authorizations. We believe that it cannot guarantee transparency, dignity and transparency, as stated in the explanatory statement. Why do we think this can't be solved? Because this whole system is fully privatised and objectively coexist with this whole process of corruption, money laundering and opacity. The bill attempts to make some improvements to the anachronistic system of tests and licenses, which is unclear and perforated. According to reports, corruption is orchestrating, since the success rate so far in driving licences is - listen! -98%. Let's draw conclusions. We therefore believe that this wound will not be healed by the adoption of this draft law, which also fully serves the privatised driving licence system, which, of course, pays inappropriately for each candidate driver to obtain a licence, to extend it, to renew it. In other words, it also serves this bill with improvements to the organisation of the economy, which operates under the profit - capitalist economy is, it serves - which is the objective basis for the creation of opacity, corruption and money laundering. This whole system is also served by regions where their policy is on the same lines, namely the management of the system. The mechanism for granting driving licences is directly linked to the time-consuming policy of all the governments of the capital, which had been serving the demands of the automotive industry over time and followed by policies to strengthen the use of the car, while at the same time depriving public transport. Thus, the workers and the people were objectively forced to meet their mobility needs by using a car, thus increasing the sales and profits of the automotive industry. The same policy was followed in the transport of goods by road, while depreciating the rail network. As far as improvements and standards were incorporated in the past, this mechanism was objectively dominated by opacity and corruption, resulting in the downgrading of road behaviour as a whole, with serious consequences for road safety and human life, because the profit law was dominated. Let us say two elements as an example. Every year around the world a million and a half thousand people are losing their lives in road conflicts and many more are injured. In Greece, with the data available from 2010 to 2017, we had about ninety-five thousand traffic accidents with seven thousand thousand three dead, nine and a half thousand severely injured and ten thousand slightly injured. This large number of road accidents to a large extent have its origins in the licensing mechanism, which is - as we said before - fully privatised and profit-driven. There are complaints - we all know it - where you can buy a diploma with a sum. Our position is that education, examination and, in total, driving licences must be granted by a universal public system. But you disagree, Minister. The main issue is also traffic education, the education of young people, our youth, who are not only aware of the Road Traffic Code. It's road behavior, traffic treatment. We believe that there must be - and I think that we all agree - as a compulsory lesson in school and education in order to ensure road safety as much as possible. And because this issue is very back in our country, we have to deal with it, we would speak immediately. Changes to the system, in order to ensure transparent implementation of the examination work and its contribution to road safety, are necessary. Workers, therefore, working in the work of the examinations, must have good pay as a counterincentive to corruption phenomena. The bill does not deal with the enormous shortage of qualified staff with recruitment. At the same time, it is collective, since it provides for an increase in the quid pro quo by 50% in Article 13, where we are voting 'no'. It also strengthens - it is what we say about its collective character which "tests" the examiners - the insurance companies at an additional cost, which will be paid by the applicant driver. In Article 1, Mr Minister, the definition of specially designed spaces for conducting the tests, as we have said in the committees, does not define who will do them. Will it be a PPP, will it be the district, will it be the municipality, will it be an entrepreneur in which you give it to do this place, and then will it rent it up and pay each person in question again? We are voting 'at present' in this article. I come to Rule 4, Minister. If a candidate passes the first stage of the examination and is cut to the second stage, you are obliged to give him the first stage to which he has passed. Why? What will this ensure? We say, since the first stage has passed, to give the stage where it was cut, not both stages again. In Article 9, you put the examiners' infringements in three categories: very serious, severe, slightly severe. Why is that so? The penalty for any infringement - first of all, it must be one infringement - must be strict so that these issues do not arise. A serious issue, Minister, is the renewal of the authorisation of people over seventy-four years of age. We've been talking to the committees too. A man who is seventy - four years old and has been driving out of his twenty - four years leads already fifty - four years. Did he forget to drive? Did he forget to press gas, brake, clutch, speed? No, of course not. We think - or rather that is the reason - that the renewal of the licence should only be carried out through a thorough medical check, including, of course, ophthalmological, auditory, pathological, neurological issues, and since this man now has this medical opinion from a public hospital, he must not have to go into the trouble to give his exams again, to learn things he already knows about 50 years ago. This, Minister, you must see. In Article 16, we say 'no', because workers who will be transferred from other services to service the examination services will be in a more difficult position and will not receive any increase, because the personal difference will apply, which will be offset until it is exhausted. We say that these people will have all these economic benefits that their other colleagues will have. Article 21 does not really address the problem of the creation of an indebted fleet of cars and does not address the important issue of safety, both for the passenger and for the professional drivers themselves. The solution to this problem is not the continuing extensions by a ministerial withdrawal decision, usually made for election reasons. On the other hand, state care can be ensured with funding - a subsidy to facilitate the timely replacement of the vehicle for low-income professionals up to 12 000 euros. They will also contribute to this direction and measures which relieve professional drivers and professionals of the sector, such as tax reductions, reductions in taxes on fuel, abolition of the trade fee and other measures of this kind, which are currently devising each professional. In Article 22, we believe that the greater use of public transport, public transport, walking with a public campaign, bicycles and other alternative public transport instruments should be encouraged by multi-faceted means. At the same time, the traffic studies carried out in the municipalities lose their scientific documentation and effectiveness due to the radical changes made by the municipalities in satisfying economic factors. That's what's going on. In Article 23 we agree with the deletion of the fines to the heirs. We are, however, vertically opposed to fines imposed on public passenger transport. What do we say? Free movement at the expense of business groups for all workers, because the worker who uses public transport - metro, electricity, urban transport - uses them to go to work, to produce the wealth that he produces - the largest part, if not all - is taken by the businessman. Therefore, business groups should pay the cost of transporting workers, that is to say, transport for workers. This measure of free movement of workers can reduce traffic problems, but also road safety. In Article 24, which concerns driving hours, we say, of course, 'yes'. But let us make a point. You put four and a half hours of unwinding work with a half an hour break. So the driver, who's going from Athens to Thessaloniki, who's four and a half hours old, is going to be inside alone what? When's he going to take a half an hour? After four and a half hours? What if at this time something happens to man, what happens to all of us? We are voting 'yes'. At the same time, we consider it necessary for all the regions with staff to be represented so that the candidate drivers do not suffer. Why do you say in the bill? You say that if one region does not have enough staff, each candidate can choose another region. I mean, if he's at Volos and he doesn't have any staff there, go to Larissa, go to Trikala, go elsewhere. Oh, no. To serve all regions with sufficient staff, so that this suffering does not pass on to each candidate driver. We say that secondary education technicians are not excluded from the position of examiners. Because, indeed, several secondary technicians are very well acquainted with the subject. At the same time, the island regions should be recruited and adequately served, so that there is no more suffering than on the continent. For the amendments, Mr President - you have put in a couple of fifteen amendments to us - to say: As far as Amendment 1945/46 is concerned, which was incorporated as Article 26, concerning the child's leave to substitute teachers, we say 'yes'. But let us say here that this licence is only for three and a half months instead of nine for teachers with an indefinite contract of employment. There's a huge inequality here. We're thinking it's gonna happen here for nine months. Furthermore, the time of receipt of the licence cannot be postponed for any reason and its duration cannot be extended. And it ends in any case, when the contract ends. I mean, if a teacher give birth in May and get fired in June, a month's leave will take, because then she's fired from their job. We believe that this right which has been won by teachers must be one and the right that their colleagues, who are under an indefinite contract, must also be respected. For reasons of parity, which you invoke, and according to the OECD, there must be for all teachers. In Amendment No 1946/47, which was incorporated as Article 47, which concerns the San Andreas Hospital in Patras, we have to say that we are voting vertically 'no', because the government with this regulation has finalised the abolition of a hospital and special - chest disease - since, of course, the well-known method of merger and attachment - which was the first step of the plan to abolish it. In practice, this amendment, Mr Minister, acquits and completes the policy of the previous PASOK and New Democracy governments, which supports efficiency, i.e. the operation of public units with business criteria, as if they were business hotel units. In Amendment No 1949/50, which was incorporated into Article 32, which concerns grazing land arrangements, we are voting against, we say 'no'. Because grazing management plans are essentially plans to eliminate intensive livestock farming, mainly employed by small and medium-sized farmers. They had their struggles now both farmers and farmers and they were inside and this request. In other words, it is another pressure added to the immunity of the traders who have dismantled, so that the price of sheep's milk has passed less than 70-80 minutes, while the government is not making a call for the monopolies of production and the market, covering them. As far as the end of the use of pastures is concerned, they are indeed another ravage for extensive sheep and goat farmers. In Article 33, which concerns the licensing of greenhouses, we have to point out the following: it relates mainly to large greenhouse undertakings. The government therefore goes on to meet the request of a number of dozens of entrepreneurs. But the problem is elsewhere. The problem is that instead of legislating sanitary and safety measures, measures with which workers will enter the greenhouse and work a few hours, because there are 70 and 80 degrees of temperatures, where there are all the personal protective measures, you give incentives for how greenhouses are to be made. So this is the important and not the motives and arrangements for how to make the constructions. For Amendment No 1952, which is in Article 52, we are voting 'no' because we recall that during the debate on the respective bill we have raised all the anti-grassroots character of the bill and voted against all the articles. We therefore also vote against this amendment which gives an extension. Last amendment, as far as the Green Fund is concerned, we are also voting 'no' here, because another resource is added to the fund. They are the amounts of revenue from the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances, namely from the infamous trade in pollutants. Business groups, industrialists, and they pay are supposed to do so. The above 2.5%, however, no longer takes account of certain expenditure and three specific resources. The total of the first is estimated by the relevant Ministry at around EUR 18 million per year. This will be revenue from the trade in pollutants, while taking into account that in the above resources the total amount released from the amount of 2.5 million is ultimately estimated to be EUR 20 million per year, a drop in the ocean, i.e. EUR 20 million. We are also voting against this amendment. Thank you very much, Mr President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the General School of Poros. The House welcomes you. Mr Saridis, special speaker of the Centroon Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for today's draft law the picture that has been formed among most of our fellow citizens is that the driving licence system has many problems. This has been shaped either by their own experience or by complaints that occasionally see the light of publicity, with many and most serious problems of opacity, anxieties, verbal procedures and money laundering. A sum of money in a bag, which even fell to 100 euros or before a penny oil, was enough to force trainers, examiners and state to do the wrong eyes, not to mention that all these new drivers, perhaps from the next day, were evolving into those responsible for accidents and accidents. It has been mentioned in committee that 65% of driving licences are granted to citizens as a result of illegal transactions. It was even heard as an example of the fact that recently fifty - six people in Piraeus obtained a driving licence without even having obtained theoretical examinations. Such behaviours certainly do not concern all the parties involved. However, the phenomenon has been and is widespread. It is therefore almost impossible for this distorting and unacceptable culture of decades to be corrected by a simple draft law. As necessary and necessary as the current government's legislative initiative will probably not be enough. Here, in the opinion of the Central Association, a multi-annual information, information and awareness campaign is needed, with courses of traffic education and road behaviour already in the first grade. And for adults, the lectures referred to in Article 15(2) are not enough. It takes intensive duration, perhaps at one time we all realize the size of the responsibilities that we have when we catch a wheel and lead to the road. Incidentally, self-determination or safety courses are not carried out in secondary education schools, according to the relevant FEKs including the timetables of the six grades of high school and high school. For this reason, the truth has come out, namely, FEC. Of course, as has been heard in committee, some students are following the certified programmes of the Institute for Road Safety, but systematic teaching does not seem to be carried out in the students of these classes, who are very close to the acquisition of the driving licence. And all this at a time when, according to Trojan data, in January-June 2018, two hundred and ninety-four people died in accidents, of which forty-six were young and only up to twenty-five years old. Apart from that, as has also been said in committee, at the moment more than seventy thousand candidates have been gathered in line and are waiting to give tests. In addition, there have been no examiners certified for three whole years. It is therefore imperative, ladies and gentlemen, that all the relevant legal framework governing the qualification and behaviour of the candidates should be reformed, as well as the theoretical examinations, with a view to complete transparency, integrity, soundness and enhanced supervision. Unfortunately, all of this seems to be insufficiently satisfied by today's bill, although some very important and interesting changes exist in it, such as conducting the tests without the presence of the instructor or the examiner in the vehicle, conducting tests using an electronic system of automatic recording of the process and automatic export of the result, as well as the operation of a system of supervision and control of trainers and examiners, which in theory ensures transparency. Also important and in the right direction is the choice of examiners per year and their four-month draw, so that no one considers that they will be active permanent, as will the conduct of the qualifications and behaviour tests as the principal and sole job of the examiners within the working hours. From our point of view we propose, that the thinking be considered for examination of candidates and under low-light conditions. And with regard to the so-called combined driving under Article 14, we have some objections as to whether it has been properly prepared and whether all the relevant experience that we have from abroad has been exploited. We must respect the opinion of the Trains, which is contrary to the principle of natural immatureness of the seventeen-year-olds, to whom, however, we have given the right to vote. However, if it is finally decided, we believe that the attendant should meet stricter requirements than the draft legislation's proposed. There is, of course, also a number of negative provisions, such as the continuation of the state's giantisation by setting up, on the basis of Article 17, another body of the College of Auditors, which will be directly subject to the Minister and will have a general inspector and forty seconded inspectors - auditors organised in addresses, departments and services with signatures and allowances. The creation of specially designed spaces for carrying out the special tests of candidate drivers should have been ready since yesterday, but it is referred to a ministerial decision on the specifications, etc. The minor sanctions referred to in Article 9 for infringements of basic rules are a negative element. We believe that one way to eliminate corruption and corruption is by strict and drastic measures. Especially for this unacceptable phenomenon of money laundering, we believe that the penalty for the examiner and his referral is not enough, according to the Staff Code, nor is the penalty sufficient for the instructor who has passed the final removal of the licence in accordance with Article 15 of the AD 208/2002, but the penalty must be extended to the applicant driver and never obtained a diploma. Never! Of course other sectors also have money, but road safety and the preservation of human life second and third opportunities should not be given. For paragraph 10 of Article 4, other colleagues have referred to this and I think we will have a problem, because the insurance market is working under certain rules and cannot be forced to create an insurance product at the request of the Ministry. Under normal conditions, companies shall not insure for any possible vehicles with a simple candidate for a driving licence if the instructor is not present. I am going to be a little restrained in what is included in Article 22 for sustainable urban mobility projects, which, although they sound very optimistic, should not be ignored the fact that over the last few decades the extreme effects of climate change and other problems of urban and quality of life have recurred. Cities must now operate with fewer and cleaner cars, with lower speeds, with enhanced public transport, in order to gradually become increasingly economic, efficient, productive and more human-friendly. In view of the fact that the PPAs are likely to be taken into account in the calculation of the funding of the TAs in the years to come, in order to implement projects and actions, any new studies are welcome, as well as the submission of proposals for combined urban and traffic planning. Unfortunately, we note that some additional reasonable proposals from the Centro Association were not accepted, as was the increase in the number of compulsory hours of training at driver schools for all the categories of candidate drivers. Secondly, the provision for some additional evidence to ensure that these hours are carried out in addition to the establishment of a responsible statement by the instructor to assure the competent services that the applicant is competent and has been trained in it. Thirdly, the introduction of a driving licence with a certain period of testing and waiting, or the provision of a second complete examination or training in two stages, which includes further compulsory education even after success in the practical examination. For the driving of elderly people, I have to repeat that the limits of the seventy-four years of age with an obligation every three years of behaviour and qualifications and eighty-six years with a test every two years are considered to be very high in our view. There are elements of the trolley, showing an increased frequency of accidents with drivers over fifty-five years of age, but also studies showing that these older people do not have the level of physical status for the alert required for driving. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the position of the Centro Association is 'the present' in principle 'the present' on the whole. For the articles and for the amendments, we shall be placed in the dentistry that we have. Before I come out of this Step, as I did yesterday and tomorrow, Minister, every time I come up with this step, I make a reference to a specific injustice - I did it yesterday to the Minister of Justice - as I understand it, which has been done to the detriment of a number of our fellow citizens, young children with postgraduate and doctoral qualifications, who have been arbitrarily excluded from the competition of ASEAN and who are struggling to find their point of view. I am referring to AAC/2017, which relates to four hundred secretarial posts. In the original post, therefore, on March 10, 2017, a broad list of graduates and postgraduate degrees was accepted. On October 20, 2017, six months later, under the anticipated procedure of the AACC, Minister, the table of provisional nominees was announced, who were then invited to take up their duties. Another, then, went to Messolong, another went to Crete, another to Yannina and opened houses there, gave money that didn't exceed them, dreamed that in any case they found a job and could secure their future. Then, with a view to arbitrary and innovative criteria, which changed arbitrarily, a hundred and thirty-nine people among whom ninety-two doctors were out of appointment and the total reclassifications in the table reached about 70%, unprecedented for the data on the SAAP itself. I am therefore addressing all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to the House, and I also address the Government: is this how we are thinking of changing Greece? This way of working? Is that how you're thinking of gaining the trust of youth? To generalize. So we all think, including counter-population, of serving truth, transparency, justice, democracy? For what's going on outside, we're responsible in here. And to change that, we first need to understand that we need to change it. So we have to give an answer to these children, an answer not to you, not to us, but to our democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u44	Thank you. We shall now proceed with speakers. Mr. Katsis, SYRIZA MP, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill before us, which - among other things - comes to reform the framework for the examinations of the candidates. This is a framework that has so far been an open wound to Greek society, both on road safety issues and on the issues of transparency and the transaction that it was giving birth to. When a diploma ends up with someone who doesn't deserve it, it translates more blood into the asphalt. That is why we must be very careful when we talk about the way in which tests are conducted. What is the first contact a young man usually has with the Greek state? It is the process of obtaining a driver's licence, a process in which, as we all know very well, it often involves grease, telephone calls, tests with best-students. This is a common practice for decades. And in some more extreme cases where they are being investigated, there are diplomas without even conducting tests. In short, this is a process for which we should all be ashamed. Unfortunately, the prefectures at that time and the regions today have not been able to cope with this dreadful system that affects us as a society. I say the regions, because we must not forget that they are responsible for carrying out the examinations. So it is important to consider their responsibilities and make their self-criticism about the current situation, those with ease give the Ministry and the current government responsibility for the situation. Because this system by some people who were born yesterday, built it a stone - a stone for too many years either with their inability to digit it or with their purpose to consolidate and reproduce an old-fashioned model with higher or smaller services to 'our own children', citizens or even employees. In the debate that took place in the committees, we found ourselves invoking the abstention of the examiners and which caused enormous problems and delays. The occasion for this abstention was the pay for the exams. Both the examiners and the regional directors to whom these employees belong were aware that there was a provision of their remuneration. They knew that since the bill was still in consultation. Since last spring, they knew it. Also, when the bill was submitted to the House, they saw the forecasts for their remuneration and even in a transitional period for this remuneration, until the law was passed and implemented. It turns out that something else is hidden in the more general reactions. To say this clearly, there are many voices to both examiners and driver schools that do not want any change. They seek to maintain circuits, grease and all those black points of tests for obtaining driving licences. So if they hope to do so, let them forget it once and for all. Of course I don't generalize. It doesn't mean that it's because people want it, and everyone wants it. To date, the examiners have been regional officials and not regional employees at specific transport or transport directorates, which are expected to exist in the regions. For these workers, the driver's test was a parlor. In practice, a thousand and fifty employees throughout the country who in many cases had nothing to do with the subject had left their positions in the regions at noon to carry out the examinations. This meant, of course, that their services were completely blocked at the moment because of their absence. Now, with this bill, officials will have an exclusive employment under this procedure. It will therefore be for the benefit of the regions, because it will only need three hundred and fifty people in all regions to do that. As to the part of the examination itself and the changes brought about by this bill, the examination procedure this year is changing irresponsiblely. And it changes for three main reasons: first, to ensure transparency at all stages of the process. Secondly, to have a specific standard test standard. And thirdly and more importantly, in my view, it is best to ensure that the new driver on the road is able to cope with the difficulties he will encounter in his movements. More specifically, of course, because our rapporteur has also mentioned them, the draft law defines specially designed spaces for carrying out the specific tests of qualifications and behaviour of all categories of driving licences. Secondly, a system of supervision and control of the examinations and training of candidates by audiovisual means is defined, which will convey the image of the examination online, i.e. live, to the single control centre at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to make a proposal to you on the basis of the consultation that has taken place in the committees and because we have listened to the bodies. In my opinion, you should consider a position expressed by the operators. There must be a provision in the law, which will say that, by means of a ministerial decision and after a technical economic study analysing the operating costs of drivers' schools for the particular category of examination and diploma, including education, but also the means and areas in which the training of the candidates is conducted, a minimum operating cost can be established. I think that you need to incorporate this proposal which has been expressed in committee so that no services are provided at prices below the minimum charge costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u46	To table an amendment on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u47	I am pleased, Minister, that you accept it. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is our duty to apply to the candidate drivers, to stop the degeneration of the examination procedure with the oil and telephones. It is our duty to the professionals of guide schools who have been working honestly and committed, to clean up the space from circuits that have been sewing him for decades. It is our duty to examineers, that is to say the officials of the regions, to give them a work environment that is stable, with specific responsibilities, in which they can provide their services with openness and transparency. Last and most important is our duty to society, to strengthen road safety, by taking on road drivers sufficiently trained to drastically reduce the blood tax we pay on asphalt every year. Road safety is a matter that requires consensus and seriousness. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to think twice and to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u48	The floor is for the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr King to support the amendment No 1943/45 on auxiliary personnel and to meet the needs of providing health to the Armed Forces. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. This amendment concerns the provision of immediate and imperative needs of military hospitals, provided for in Article 3 of L.4211/2013, the recruitment of auxiliary staff to them. The initial placement was made by means of a fixed-term contract which could not be extended for more than one year. However, under Article 40 of Law 4508/2017 and due to the need to cover positions of specific specialisations in military hospitals, their contract was extended until 31 December 2018. These specialties are nursing, physiotherapy, radiology, radiology, treatment, reasoning, social work, medical and biological laboratories assistants. That period during which the term of office of the AS's civil servants has been extended has now expired. Therefore, it has now left the military hospitals, whose needs were covered by critical specialties until then. In order to meet the imminent direct and pressing needs in military hospitals, the Ministry of National Defence is to recruit new ancillary civilian personnel according to the legal framework for recruitment to the National Health System. It is noted that its recruitment is carried out by lists drawn up and observed in health regions. It is estimated that it will last a few months, which would - and it will cause - malfunctioning military hospitals in critical specialities until the abovementioned procedure has been successfully completed and replaced by the existing staff. So, having been fully aware of the above-mentioned gaps - and will be created - for the next period from the withdrawal of the ancillary staff, as well as the immediate and imperative needs of the military hospitals still in existence, we have taken this initiative on the procedures necessary for the justified employment of the above-mentioned staff at the posts which it covered up to the completion of the recruitment process of the new ancillary civilian staff and in any case not beyond 31 May 2019. It is noted at this point that this process is evolving and is at the stage of the decision of the General Staff Board, the GFCM, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Law 4211/2013 and the delegation of the Ministerial Decision adopted. For the reasons I am referring to, therefore, and also for the reasons of public interest arising from the mission and work carried out by military hospitals, we consider it necessary to continue the work of the already staffed until 31-12-2018 until the recruitment of the young and not beyond 31-5-2019. Otherwise, if you do not approve it, ladies and gentlemen, because of this lengthy process that I described and required by law for the recruitment of subsidiary staff, there will continue to be gaps in military hospitals in critical specialities for a long time. Finally, I would like to point out that the same arrangement has been adopted - that is, by the supervised bodies of the Ministry of Health of the ERC under Article 16(1) of the Law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So we are proposing this amendment by 31-5-2019, and that is where the procedure, as provided for by the Ministry of Health, will be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. We shall proceed with Mr Andriano, Member of the New Democracy. Mr. Adriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill, of course, after four years, which should aim to modernise the examination procedure for driving licences, strengthen transparency and objectivity in a field of public action which is problematic and beyond the consequences for road safety and the blood tax that we pay as a society on the roads, and also tarnish the vast majority of trainers and examiners who are conscientiously doing their duty. Unfortunately, however, despite the good intentions of the bill we are debating today, it contains many problematic elements which will create many and important problems which could be avoided effectively if the Ministry took the first hand into account the positions and proposals of people who are aware of the functioning of the system, the existing problems and the prospects. I am referring, of course, to the Argolis 'Argolis' Association, which has repeatedly sent detailed proposals with arguments. Of course, I have many of these proposals and I have them through Parliament's procedure. I have sent them to you, Minister. These are in relation to their proposals and their concerns. Before, however, I refer to these problems, which the rapporteur of the New Democracy also pointed out in detail, I would like to refer to the issue of the payment of the monthly compensation of EUR 240 for examiners who were absent from the previous period, and from what I have been informed, they continue their abstention again. This is a compensation that was withdrawn by law in 2015, while the Ministry tabled an amendment in February 2016, which was supposed to solve the programme, but withdrew the amendment immediately afterwards, relaying the problem again for June 2017, December 2017 and finally April 2018. As a result, all this is to keep tens of thousands of candidate citizens hostage. But the suffering of these thousands of citizens, candidates and candidates, all this time, is that it is great, because they could not give tests and certainly had consequences for their work, since many of them were driving licences and, in particular, professionals needed them for their work. Of course, a huge problem arises with thousands of elderly people who have to be re-examined, since they could only have medical examinations, with a thorough examination being able to get their diplomas back and continue to drive for some time until subsequent medical examinations. With regard to the individual provisions of the bill, it is wrong to provide for the movement of candidate drivers and vehicles into another regional unit, as well as in accordance with the relevant d.d. 208/2002 the instructor of candidates is required to engage in the profession of an instructor exclusively in the county where the head office of the school is located. So we propose exactly the opposite. If necessary, the examiners should move to another regional unit, of course, with the corresponding remuneration and travel costs. With regard to the examination procedure, it is clear that the instructor must be present within his vehicle, in particular where there is now provision for transparency in the recording of the whole camera examination, both for reasons of protection of his ownership and for further safeguarding the procedure. It should also be borne in mind that there is currently no product in the market for insurance to candidate trainer, examiner and vehicle, which poses serious problems in the implementation of this provision. Similarly, practical problems relating to the recording, transmission and storage of the surveillance by cameras should be resolved. There will therefore be problems such as the bureaucratic suffering that will have to be addressed. For example, since the examination will be carried out in real time at the Ministry's Control Centre, why should it not be recorded by the Ministry. Similarly, provision should be made for examination on tracks which do not exist, at least in the number needed. Finally, we disagree with the asymmetry of sanctions. In the case, for example, of the very serious infringements referred to in Article 9(6), while serious penalties are correctly provided for trainers, the examiner is simply removed from the specific work and continues to be paid to another employee of the Ministry or region. Ladies and gentlemen, the points I have mentioned demonstrate the sloppiness with which this bill has been drafted, and unfortunately we are losing another chance, to substantially modernise the procedures of the candidates, to strengthen transparency and at the same time to reduce bureaucratic burdens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u52	Mr. M. M. M. Papatheodorou has the floor, and then we will be interrupted to vote on the referrals. Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure because there are too many members of the National Representation today in plenary because of the lifting of immunity, so I shall tell you a nice Syrian story. I will only refer to an article in Article 27, which I must tell you is apparently innocent. What does Article 27 say? It says that the General Hospital of Patras is a legal entity governed by public law with an organisational unit, subject to the control of the FD and is called "Agios Andreas". So what we read is that everyone could vote for it is that it is specified that the "Agios Andreas" Hospital in Patras is an organic unit. I don't see Mr. Polakis here today or Mr. Blondie. Maybe they're busy. However, I see this in order to understand why the legislator needs to tell us that it is an organic unit, we refer to the explanatory statement. So in the explanatory statement, we learn that today's "Saint Andreas" consists of an organic unit based in Patras and the decentralized organic unit of Thorakos Southwest Greece. It therefore says in the explanatory statement: ‘This decentralised unit does not exist in reality, since its structures have been transported and incorporated into the organic unit of the office ‘Saint Andreas’ and the provision of health services is now carried out by it’. So the Thorakos Disease was incorporated in the "St. Andreas". So Article 27 is coming to tell us that it is an organization. And I seek, ladies and gentlemen, that provision which incorporates or abolishes the Thoracian Disease and incorporates it, thus incorporates it into a new organic unit and I do not find it. I do not find it and I wonder why there is no such provision. There, I remembered that since 2018, I have asked a number of questions about this incorporation and the placement of certain SYRIZA parties in the administration of "St. Andreas". I will submit to the minutes my question of 6 April 2018 that the former commander of the Special Hospital of Thorakos Patras after his merger with "Agios Andreas" took the place of the Deputy Director of the hospital unit "Agios Andreas". This means that without the hospital being effectively abolished, this commander - I leave it for the Minutes, because this question has never been answered - of the Thorakos Hospital, a party member of the SYRIZA, became the deputy commander of the "Standreas". [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It wouldn't be a problem. There's recyclability of many SYRIZA executives in administrative positions. What's the problem? The problem is in the other question I asked from 16-4-2018 that the same commander was accused of illegally receiving her father's pension for the past twenty-two years and that the charge made by the General Accounting Office of the State was over 100,000 euros. Nor has this question been answered in substance and I am tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What do we have today and why is this provision, ladies and gentlemen? That's why I told you it's a nice Symbol story. As of April 26, 2018, the "Saint Andreas" Hospital is reopened without an organisation, without a provision of Article 27, with all the problems a hospital has, which cannot build an administrative board and the board of directors cannot meet on current problems. In the air is the hospital. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Stop, ladies and gentlemen, listen. So it comes ten months later the Ministry, having created a problem with the hospital body, to pass on to Article 27 a single body, a single unit to enable the hospital to function. But he won't tell us if Thorax Hospital was abolished. And here - and I say this to my fellow Member of the Communist Party - there is no provision that abolishes it. There is no provision incorporating it. There's nothing but the geographical movement - I'd tell you - of one another's hospital in the new building. What's the matter with this process? It happens that if a provision were to come out today that was abolishing the Thoracian Hospital retrospectively, some would have to have returned the supplementary commander's money to the hospital for ten months, when he was receiving the deputy commander's allowance for a hospital, which today tells us that the explanatory statement does not exist. Is Mr. Xanthos or Mr. Paulakis here? Oh, no. I would suggest that you withdraw the provision, abolish the hospital - if you want to abolish it, which we do not want you to abolish - which has moved to the new "Saint Andreas" Hospital and solve the problem, which has been in existence for months, with a deputy commander who is supposed to run a hospital that you say has been abolished and incorporated. That's not just a syriatric story. It's a scandal that justice investigates. But in any case, ladies and gentlemen, is it so difficult for things to be done properly? You bring an article innocent, Article 27, which gives a single administrative form to a hospital. Do it well, because the hospital is not a chip of today's minister, neither yesterday's nor the day after tomorrow's. The hospital works to provide health services to the citizens and has to work, and to work, it has to have a proper organization. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end. This Article 27 does not legally identify a correct body at the time it is still alive because it has not been abolished and incorporated into the Thoracian Hospital. Solve this problem to solve the administrative problem of a hospital that exists today with an alternate commander of a ghost hospital. But I imagine justice will find all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, etc. Constantine Barbarousis and George Kritsis. The report was announced by the committee responsible on 12-2-2019, according to which members of the committee unanimously proposed the waiver of Mr Constantine Barbarousi's immunity. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 12-2-2019, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed that the immunity of Mr Georgios Kyritsis be waived. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliament shall decide on an increase in the hand or on the request of the Public Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents on 7 March 2018, this procedure has triggered the new electronic roll-call system. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said before. The first case concerns Mr Constantine Barbarousis. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? There's no colleague. The second case concerns Mr Georgios Kyritsis, who has tabled a memorandum, which I will read to you: "Mr. Sirisssis, Member of the European Parliament. The case you have before you concerns the period that I participated in the Board of Directors of the "984 Municipal Radio Station" as a representative of the "Open City" Municipal Party from November 11, 2008 until December 21, 2010 on the municipality of Nikita Kaklamani. The case is part of a wide-ranging case-file with dozens of persons involved, virtually all the members of the successive boards of '9.84', regardless of the origin of the case. I am accused of harming '9.84' because I voted positively in two unanimous decisions of the Board in the sense that they were not included in the authority's powers and tasks. The members of the Board of Directors, with no special knowledge, shall vote on the basis of the recommendations made by the President and the services and with the agreement of the Legal Adviser of the Board. The first decision concerns the taking by "9,84", as every year, of the Athens Municipality celebrations for Christmas 2008. The second decision concerns the modernisation and use of the amphitheatre and the studios of the station, housed in the special circular building - an industrial monument in Ghazi. Both decisions were implemented by the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Athens and the Interparliamentary Committees set up by the Municipal Council for this very purpose. In the second case, even that of the amphitheatre as the indictment admits, the decision in question had been passed at the previous meeting of the Board of Directors, in which I did not even participate. My definition of the board. It took place immediately after the vote on this decision. In both cases I think I did not do anything illegal or even anything legal but non-ethical. I am not accused of being economically advantageous or of being wasted on public money. I also have the political coverage on behalf of the Open City Municipal Party. For these reasons, I firmly believe that I will be relieved and trusted in justice, I want my immunity to be waived. With honor, George Kritsis, MP II of Athens."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u55	The second request, is there any colleague asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? There's also no colleague. We would like to point out that the vote includes two different cases of the waiver of immunity from Members. Every time on the screen a case appears to be voted on. To show the next or the previous one, press the arrow on the right or left side of the screen respectively. Make sure you've voted for all cases of waiver of immunity. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any question, please address the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. Please, open up the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be recorded and taken into account in the electronic counting which will be followed. The letters, which have been sent to the Bureau by my colleagues and others, were sent to the Bureau. Kotzia Nikolaos, Alonitou Helen, Kyritsis Georgios, Bored Georgios, Karagiannidis Christos, Balaura Geramis, Marda Dimitrios, The Guardian Ioannis, Thelerite Maria, Manios Nikolaos, Vitsa Dimitrios, Michael Andreas and Loverdos, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, will be registered in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u57	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members, Mr Konstantinos Barbarousis and Mr Georgios Kristsis. On the first case of Mr Constantine Barbarousi, a total of 157 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAI', 157 Members voted. On the other hand, there is a need to ensure that the Community's external relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet 'PARON' voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor shall therefore be accepted unanimously. A total of 157 Members voted on the second case by Mr Georgios Kyritsis. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 136 Members voted. Against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 19 Members voted. 'PARON' 2 Members voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor shall therefore be accepted by a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to the debate on the bill of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. I read the names of the five speakers that will follow. It's Mr. Gregos, Mr. Lazarides, Mrs. Lebanon, Mr. Karamanlis and Mr. Jellonis. The Minister will be absent for a while because he has been in the chamber of the Ministerial Council. But the State Secretary is present. After some time Mr Spirtz will come back to the Ministerial Council, Mr Moraite. Mr Antony Gregos has the floor from the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Your Honor. We are talking about a bill, which seems to be a procedural one, which concerns the issue of licences and the various procedures for recording and examining candidates. It does, however, hide and substantially raise issues, issues relating to road safety, as referred to in Articles 3, 4, 6, 8 and 14. I shall refer to general issues and as a member of the Committee on Road Safety, which produces substantial work and fortunately without party purposes, because we are talking here about the supreme good, which is what human life is. SYRIZA's rapporteur spoke about the fight against corruption and interlocutory procedures, with a view to dealing with road accidents. But all this, as it sees it and the way it looks in the bill, is very skin and noticeable. We are talking about an irreversible state which I would describe as a murderer and which bears enormous responsibility for genocide - in introductory and non-important terms - which has been taking place for years in our country. And I am talking about genocide, because the evidence is sad and disappointing. We are talking about a state that has granted driving licences in specific ways, without repeated examinations and without transparent procedures, about a state that has never punished big-workers for the crimes they have committed on roads. We are talking about a state that considered the labelling and illumination of national and provincial roads a procedural and bureaucratic problem, a state that never punished the offenders of all kinds and aimed solely at collecting revenue. We are talking about a state that has never understood that road safety is mainly a matter of education, but also of a state which has not introduced as a felony the abandonment of a car victim as it should. Because those scoundrels who leave a victim on the street should be punished exemplarily. So this legislation must come immediately. I shall refer in particular to the suggestion which we have tabled to the Committee on Road Safety and which has been approved by all parties. Road safety is a major social issue, requiring an integrated and systematic approach, as well as the implementation of appropriate policies and measures on both the part of the Greek state, other bodies and especially users. Every year twenty-six thousand people are losing their lives on the roads of the European Union, and at least thirty-five thousand are seriously injured. Greece in the last decade has shown a decrease in the number of road deaths due to the general economic downturn and not a better implementation of road traffic rules. However, efforts should continue to reduce the number of road accidents and increase road safety at the same time, emphasising traffic treatment and driver training, something that does not seem to be really concerned with. Collective initiation is important as a process, through the acquisition of deep knowledge and necessary experience, to awaken and enhance traffic awareness, assimilation, interpretation and application of the basic rules contributing to good traffic treatment and then to improving the quality of road safety. This process is complex, multi-level and requires the cooperation of many parties to have the best results. We have made too many proposals. A central road safety planning strategy, in combination with private bodies initiatives, can act catalytically in awakening and raising citizens' awareness of improving road safety in the country. Private bodies could promote specific television programmes in high-screening and audience bands, publish relevant articles in the electronic and press form and brief messages on social media, distribute newsletters to crossing drivers and pedestrians, with general safe driving tips and references to targeted issues, for example, tunnel or wet-roll driving and much more. They could also send messages to the national road signs on safe driving, the use of safety belts, the ban on using a mobile phone - a big wound - and much more. They could also develop road toys, as already exist in foreign countries, on electronic platforms, so that even minor users of electronic media can familiarise themselves with road traffic rules and the concept of road safety as a whole. Furthermore, they could develop appropriate applications for electronic media - for example for recording alcohol consumption - and provide in the context of a campaign of alcohol control devices, as is the case around the world, which are related to the mobile phone, such as about the bluetooth application and other applications that have modern mobiles. Finally, they could develop experiential traffic treatment programs to understand the basic principles of safe traffic in the street, distribute, apart from the information materials, stickers with messages corresponding to the Swiss 'Slow Down - Take it easy' campaign, to organise information seminars, seminars and events, friendly struggles, events, events, memory events for car accident victims in the context of a awareness-raising campaign. As has already been pointed out, these actions should be combined with the development of an appropriate central government policy. So, among other things, there should be mandatory courses of traffic education at all levels of compulsory education, strict policing and strict penalties for breaking the Road Traffic Code, tighten the tests for driving licences, increase the fines for drivers who slowly drive the fast lane and usually cause fatal accidents, as well as for those who lead to it for no reason. but also to introduce strict penalties for road construction contractors, as I have said before, who, with their proven fault - malicious crafts, etc. - They're causing traffic accidents. In any case, despite the information and advertising by private bodies and the measures taken by the central state - what it takes - it is important to understand that drivers and pedestrians themselves should understand the seriousness of the concept of road safety and take the same measures to protect them, to circulate conscientiously and responsibly and to follow closely the Road Traffic Code. I'm sure this bill doesn't solve any such problems. I'm sure he doesn't put security above everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u61	Mr George Lazaridis, an independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. We have in front of us a bill, which is trying to get in order or, if you better, to modernise the way drivers are examined, but also the training of drivers. At some points it can be said that it is taking some steps forward. Seeing it, however, more thoroughly creates or causes questions. First of all, as far as the use of electronic means is concerned, it is of course a good thing - it cannot be called into question - and it helps to reduce or eliminate any kind of transaction, which we all know in our own country. What question, though, is he born? It sets as a time limit for modernising and installing these electronic media for four months for driver schools and 12 months for the public. Why this treatment? So, when we have the private sector to face, we are dealing with it with such strictness and we are putting such tough time frames in place, and when we have the public, are we more relaxed and in any case, are we setting different frameworks? In my opinion, this is one of the negative elements. The second negative is the absence of the driver's instructor during the examination. This, Minister, I really do not understand, as many people and many trainers do. During the debate in the committees, people, who are also very concerned, were placed. The car is an asset of the instructor or driver school. Is it possible that the instructor is not present? Some colleagues have said that the driver should be acquainted with driving without someone else in the car. But during the examination, the driver has not yet been found to be capable of driving. The driver shall be considered during the examination. After having successfully passed the exam, then now comes the result that he can get out and drive. In what sense, before the examination is completed, do we consider that he is capable of going out on his own to face up to the road conditions, namely, what he is facing? So we should watch it carefully. Another thing now in terms of the seventy - five - year - olds, who must repeatedly give tests. What country in the world is this happening? No one. So, what's he doing? He forgets in two years how to drive or what are the signals, what are the safe driving rules? Oh, no. I believe that some further tests should be carried out, that is, beyond the ophthalmologist, by the pathologist, by a neurologer or, in any case, by someone else, orthopaedic or whatever is decided, but not by an examination. We are now going to business - because I see that the liquid fuel time is going through. There really is an attack on the private sector and on entrepreneurship. Instead of supporting the companies that have remained open after so many years of crisis - you see that companies are affected - a narrow time frame is in place. In addition to the strict time frame that comes in, what is criminal for businesses is suspended, that is to say, their authorisation until they comply with the new security rules that they enter. We are all in favour of the safety rules, but not by suspending the authorisation. There are a thousand five hundred businesses that will have to modernise the security issues. The companies responsible for installing these machines are four in Greece. Make an account: Four businesses that undertake modernisation, a thousand five hundred businesses that need to be modernised. You understand what's going on now. If the licence is suspended, it means that for over half a year - almost a year - these businesses will remain closed. I ask you this: what will these businesses do next? They will be subject to the process of renewing the licence and bringing the clientele back - we must also take these into account - because no business can remain open without customers. All this clientele should bring it back. Apart from that, we have to take something else into account, because there is also a social issue here. We have to deal with the region as well. We have villages - I am talking about the Greek countryside - where we have a gas station, a station. If this closes, i.e. if, as the bill says, his license is suspended, it means that the service is closed. What will they do from the village? They're going to the neighboring village? I don't think that makes sense. And if we consider some other mountainous areas of our country, such as the Agraphs, the Epirus, the Olympus, etc., where the nearest villages can be thirty and forty kilometers and the conditions to approach them are very hard, you realize that they have no sense of this measure. That is why I have already recommended that the committees should apply that definitively, i.e. that 31-12-2019 and those who do not comply by 31-12-2019 should be permanently removed. No suspension of the license. It's very hard, and as I told you, it's gonna have the effect of shutting down business. And you know, when a business closes, there will be the social consequences that we will face. Apart from that, however, there are jobs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in less than half a minute. In other words, what I am proposing is that the office should not be temporarily removed or suspended, but that it should be permanently removed if the office fails to comply until 31-12-2019. After all, in this context, you have accepted, Minister, a legislative proposal that I had brought to you for Article 25 of Law 4439/2016 to extend the time for adjusting the stations under construction. I come to Article 70, and this is where I close. With regard to the abolition of paragraph 2 of Article 70 of Law 4530/2018, which allows even zeroing the distances required for the installation of the LPG tanks, I disagree, Minister. I propose, Minister, that the provision for the adoption of the ministerial decision be maintained as foreseen. What I am saying about zeroing distances with regard to LPG stations, whether we compare what is in force or what has been proposed to apply to Greece with what is happening abroad, is once again being exposed as a country. Please take a look at this. As I have said to the committees, it is not possible for Germany, which is one of the countries which is distinguished by the safety rules for the operation of either service stations or all these systems in general, to distinguish for its rigour, to have five meters away from the ground and to reach one metre, depending on the use of fire-fighting walls, etc. And here to be absolute at 50 meters. In other words, five metres to one in Germany and fifty metres in Greece. That exposes us. The same applies to Great Britain. If I remember correctly, it's about seven feet there. We - I repeat this to have the comparison directly - have it at 50 metres. If some services cannot deal with a possible dangerous situation, as is the case with Europeans, I would suggest sending them for education in Europe or, in any case, deciding something to happen. At some point we need to modernise and stand on the side of business.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Lazaridis, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u64	I'm hanging up here, Mr. President. That is why I ask you to look at these issues relating to drivers' schools, but also for fuel agencies, with particular sensitivity, because we need to support businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u65	We continue with our colleague from SYRIZA, Mrs Zoe Lebanese. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport contains a number of regulations, mainly amending the procedure for obtaining a driving licence. The way in which the tests are carried out to date is unclear, they are practically not controlled. It is a common secret - especially in large urban centres - that a 'black market' has developed in driving tests. There are thousands of drivers who claim they paid to get the driver's licence, but there are no complaints to Greek justice. The money laundering or other form of intervention is much more than those reported or detected by Greek justice. This reality - as it makes sense - creates many dangers. There are few cases of driving performance in people who did not have the necessary knowledge. The government, and on this issue, chooses to abandon the phenomenon of inertia and convenientness in many respects. It intervenes decisively and proposes a system of examination which ensures the possibility of monitoring the test, but also of examiners. It will be possible to verify and bring penalties to those who do not do the work assigned to them under the responsibility they need. Nowadays there are the technical possibilities to conduct the tests and record them digitally, proving that someone has succeeded or rightly failed in the driving examination. The changes proposed are practicable and fair, respond to the wider public interest and close an outbreak of corruption in Greece. The government once again proves that it is part of this society, that it is disgusting and dares to intervene. The common secret of corruption and the acquisition of a portion of civil servants to obtain a diploma was a major problem. Don't close our eyes. Today's initiative eliminates another dark hole. Equally important is the initiative to deliver a driving licence to seventeen years. The way in which young people can obtain driving licences is, in my view, ideal. The provision for a driving licence with a year of compulsory escort from an adult experienced driver will prove valuable in order to save society from the heavy blood tax which each year pays for the driving behaviour of young and inexperienced drivers. The usual to date is for young drivers to do some empirical lessons usually with their parents, after obtaining a diploma and within a very short period of time to go on the road, without having gained sufficient experience. The obligation to drive along for a whole year will provide valuable knowledge in real terms. It may be possible - and it is useful - to extend this provision to any new driver, regardless of his age. The current bill also solves problems relating to the compensation of examiners for driving licences. The Department's Board of Auditors on Transport Issues is reformed so that auditors can carry out effective checks on the new data created, as far as transport services are concerned. The rules on outdoor parking are streamlined, which will enable existing stations to continue to operate, but also to use spaces to offer new parking spaces, especially in areas with serious problems. The Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan is being established. There are specific rules and objectives, which will oblige all municipalities to draw up realistic plans for the movement of people into the urban environment and urban areas. The completion of these projects in each city will put an end to the frequent and unsatisfactory changes that create more problems than they are supposed to solve. The LAGs will be forced to implement a framework that is not based on the view of some, but on the logic and labelling of the transporters. This is, therefore, a bill that has as its main feature logic, serves transparency, modernises specific aspects of the institutional framework in order to respond to today's data. It serves the public and forms a new sustainable and more secure reality in our streets and cities. Above all, it helps not to take a roadside attitude like this that the pedestrian "thank you" says to any driver who stops at the crossroad to pass, not to be our cities for cars alone, not to take the wheel on those who are not qualified, to protect the elderly from accidents, and not to rank them in the west of their lives to potential criminals. We need to save as many human lives as we can, as we will be able for a year to be next to a new driver and together find the way to be better. We need to know that the car is a means to serve us to make our lives easier and not a means to condemn ourselves or, worse still, to remove unintentional or voluntary lives of our fellow people. Culture is a way of life. Let us prove each of us and all together that we are a civilized people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, too. We shall now proceed with Mr Kostantino Ah. Karamanlis from New Democracy. The next five colleagues are Mr Jellonis, Mrs Karakostas, Mr Tsiaras, Mrs Arabatzis and Mr Kyriazidis. Here, Mr Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I enter the essence of this bill, you will allow me to make a more general placement, because in recent days we have seen a government sinking into the gutter of their sins. We see sms of Ministers in a mafia dialect, we read about threats from a minister against a central bank, and we see translations - a few days ago - critics of the government and now ready for the supposedly great new course on the centre-left. So this outrageous, obscene transaction does not just expose the government and the country. Politics itself is degenerated and democracy itself is denounced. And in this morbid climate, we are being called today to discuss this bill. First of all, I will congratulate the Minister for two reasons. The first is that you have achieved with a bill that has been delayed for seven months - because so much you are preparing it - and that has been seventy thousand people without being able to give tests...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u69	You 20 years...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u70	...collapse against you all, i.e. examiners, trainers and candidate drivers. Minister, this needs a special political art to achieve it. The second reason is because once again you lie. Make the white one, black one. We saw it with Law 4412, the law that you voted on, and which you have amended two hundred and seventy-nine times. We've seen it with L.4427 for L.A. and L.A.. It is the third year now that the law has not been implemented. We saw it with Law 4530 on cabs. Here we have caught you, Minister, once again lying that the New Democracy has voted for the examinations of those who have been in the seventy-four years. You're lying! I shall now turn to what the New Democracy has voted on in Article 65.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u71	What did she vote for?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u72	He voted 'no'. Here it is, get it to see it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits the abovementioned document for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] Once again, Minister, we caught you doing your white, black! Once again, we caught you lying! I now come to this bill in order to clarify a number of issues, based on the reasoning of our rapporteur, Mr Katsaniotis. First of all, the New Democracy and all in this Chamber, I think it is obvious that we are in favour of all the efforts aimed at increasing transparency. But you don't do this with this bill. Despite invoking transparency, you are moving the whole issue to driving schools. So, as other colleagues have said, it is a draft law which is inappropriate and a bill that achieves unprecedented. It afflicts drivers over seventy-four years of age, creates more important problems in driving schools and causes the reactions of the public officials themselves. All of this was clearly seen in the committees. All the actors came and you were told of all the things that I mentioned. You were also told that this whole process was done in secret, without consultation with the relevant authorities. We're talking about a bill that thinks all wrong with driving diplomas is done by the drivers of driving schools. That's why you don't hesitate not only to throw them out of the examination process, but to recruit them as well. In short, according to the Government, the only ones responsible for this real problem of unbelievable corruption are trainers and should therefore abstain from the examination procedure. At the same time, what are you doing? You invite them to wire their cars, send them to real time and uninterrupted signal to the Ministry. And I honestly wonder where the government has seen all this, in which other European Union countries are these things. Here in many regions of the country you know that there is no mobile phone signal and you are asking for a constant video mission. And a reasonable question: This video will be recorded for transparency purposes. So why, since there's gonna be videos, the instructor isn't in the car? In the transitional period envisaged, four months, and which we all know will last much longer, the government proposes that this is absurd: in the passenger's seat, not sitting the instructor of the candidate, but sitting another instructor. And unprecedented originals don't stop there. To candidate drivers over seventy-four, instead of strict medical examinations, you put them - and this is a global originality - to give three extra tests, theoretical, course and special tests - notice - for all the diplomas they hold. In other words, a professional truck driver of seventy-four years of age must give six examinations: for his professional diploma and for the private car. And if he has a diploma, then the tests should be done nine. Instead of medical examinations for all diplomas, you fill the public sector with an incredible bureaucracy and eventually move a huge cost to the people concerned. Unfortunately, limited time does not allow me to refer to any other unprecedented legislation. I just wanted to show how absurd it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Spirtzi, I'm not in dialogue with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u74	I just wanted to ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u75	No, I'm not in dialogue with you. You said what you said, you are judged by those who see you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u76	In any case, the dialogue between the Minister and the Member shall be conducted only with the Bureau's permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u77	I shall conclude, Mr President. The examination procedure for drivers' licences certainly needs very great improvements. But this must be done in a technocratic way, and it must be done with a serious dialogue with the bodies which you do not do. We also need to take the good practices in force in other countries of the European Union. You come, as our rapporteur said, and you run new patents, 'Sprartzi Patent', which does not exist anywhere in the world. Here we are in a few months to prove to you once again that this law is inappropriate too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Grade of Painland. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u79	Would you excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u80	Here, Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u81	I would like to ask Mr Karamanlis a question for clarification. Did he say professional drivers over seventy-four years in a heavy truck that we have them run nine tests?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u82	Did I vote or did I not vote for this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u83	Mr Karamanlis, I will give you the floor for two minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u84	I want you to answer that, if you said we were putting a professional driver seventy-four years old of a heavy vehicle, such as a truck, bus, etc., back in nine tests to have his license. Answer me that. To the rest, because Mr. Karamanlis asked for an answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u85	We voted for the seventy-four?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u86	I'll give you the floor, Mr. Karamanlis. Let it end now. It's a good time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u87	Tell us whether drivers over seventy-four years of age have to give nine times and then tell you the rest. Law 4530/2018 passed by the Greek Parliament over the seventy-four years. It's not a matter of today's draft law. I say it because populism must have a line in the Chamber. We're not discussing today whether they're giving tests or not. Today's...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u88	You said we did not vote for it too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u89	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Casaniotis, you're very vibrant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u91	In today's draft law we see the transitional provision for these people to give examinations without suffering. We're not talking today whether they're giving tests or not. This was voted in March, as were many others voted before, in which you close your eyes and want to plunder. No problem. Continue the same violin. But tell us exactly what you want to know about what I asked you to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u92	Before I give the floor to Mr Karamanlis, Minister, you will gather what you want and when you make your position, you will answer as a whole. I won't stop the flow to answer. Is that right? Here, Mr Karamanlis, you have the floor for two minutes to answer whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Spirtzi, you really do not stop apologizing me and it is extremely entertaining what you are doing, because you have repeatedly been caught by the Opposition to lie and do the white one. So we will take the Minutes to see that a few hours ago you said that the New Democracy had voted for this particular article. We came here, we proved to you that we had not voted for it and instead of saying 'I made a mistake, I'm sorry', you turn around and say 'we didn't do that'. Now, let me answer your question. A driver who's seventy-four years old and wants to give a driver's license will give three times. If he wants to give a motorcycle license, he's going to re-examination and there might be such a driver. I'm sorry, why did I see SYRIZA's colleagues saying "to be seventy-four years old and be a truck driver?" Why, today cannot there be seventy-four people who are not in retirement and lead or have stopped their pension rights and led? Yes, Mr. Spirtzi. And that's not what I'm saying. That's what the committee said. It's called the agencies of your department. I didn't take that off my head. So, once again you're exposed, once again do you do the white and the most important thing of all do you know what it is, Mr. Spirtzi? There's no point in ours here, if you like, confrontation. It is important that we will again be in this Chamber and tell you that this law is not going to be implemented! Because for all the legislation that you have brought here and we have proved it to you, unfortunately, you do not have ready law enforcement to legislate on them. First of all, Mr. 4412, for whom you have brought two hundred and seventy amendments! If possible, at the moment we are sitting and fighting on this issue! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u94	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u95	Minister, please. Oh, no. We're on. Mr. Jellonis is waiting. Keep it all. You'll have plenty of time to answer. Mr Jellonis has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Before I became a member of this draft law, I could not say anything about the general political situation, which has really escaped from a government which is on the way and we are witnessed at the last time in a situation of former ministers who have declared each other in terms of mafia, to distribute each other, to listen to transparent award procedures, to finance from foreign centres. On the other hand, we are now seeing a Minister of State filming an institution, a central banker, rejoicing about it, and when he sees the next day that this is a criminal offence, a felony, coming to Parliament, annuling this, but still trying to impose new customs on the political life of the country. We are, in fact, living a democracy of the Latin American type, of degeneration, of decline, with a Prime Minister spectator on all of this. That is why justice has the floor. The Greek people must have the floor immediately. All that the SYRIZA Government does, this heterogeneous regime - I do not need to talk about, so much has been said - without principles, values, a single political direction, is what we are now collecting, as long as we do a suppressive government majority. Look, ladies and gentlemen, particularly of the majority: in 1965, in front of what we have seen in recent days, mash. On the other hand, you come here and say that you want to represent the Central Left. The Central Left is not with transfers and political takeovers of persons. The Central Left is made with principles, values and policies which touch the citizen. Right here, I would like to speak now. In this bill, an amendment was tabled, which also went as an article in the bill and came to plenary, Article 32, on the arrangements for grazing land, - and, in fact, it went almost unnoticed - the pastures, which you painted in 2015 in grazing land, contrary to what the European Community defines by means of directives only entitled 'catches'. We pointed it out to you then. You said then that you would do the management plans, in a procedure which we said at the time that you would not carry it out and that Greek farmers would be in danger of losing aid from the European Community. You were committed that up to 1-1-2019 you would have made the integrated pasture management plans, so that Greek farmers would have no problem. We come today, in 2019, and you have done nothing at all. The new CAP 2020-2027 begins and European funds are at risk of being lost. And you are now coming to bring an amendment to it - it says - until 31/12-2021 the management plans of pastures. But the new CAP will start from 2020. Therefore, in the first year, in 2021, which we will not have the management plans for pasture land, an important sum will already be lost by Greek farmers. Watch out now. Already, when you brought the law on the management plans of pastures in 2015, we pointed out that you were taking money away from the first degree of local government. Instead of the state paying for these management plans, you took the grazing fee for the pasture, which was going to the municipalities, to do in the pasture conservation projects, to be productive, fire-proofing measures for pastures and forests, you took this money and said that you were going to the district to make the management plans for the improvement of pastures. How much money did you get this until 2018? You got about 9 million euros. And the Minister comes today and says "these 9 million are not enough, we can get another 10 million, we can do 20 million to do the management plans". On the other hand, those who are essentially responsible and interested in the management plans should be involved in this process, which are the collective organs of farmers, and you are taking them out of management, but you get 20 million of them, of their own funds, directly collected funds, through farmers' subsidies, through procedures, which are in need of many questions as to how these funds will be made available. The additional 10 million requested by the current Minister for Rural Development, who is not here, is unrealistic. It is not justified from nowhere that we have an additional 10 million in those already taken from Greek farmers. On the other hand, - and that is why I tell you that politics marks a political space - you have shown how much you are interested in the Greek farmer, when you gave 42 million years ago to strengthen him in the situation that he is currently in. EUR 42 million means EUR 5 for two days of diet in each producing animal. With Article 32, you receive direct money from Greek farmers, the 20 million, with an amendment, which has not even been discussed, in an unrelated bill, without knowing how it will be made available and if you can carry out the management plans of pastures, when four years you have done nothing. You are simply taking money for some "fathers". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u97	There have been some mutual changes in the list. Mrs Karakosta has the floor. Then Mr. Chiaras, Mrs. Arabatzis and Mr. Consolas will enter the place of Mr. Kyriazides. Here, Mrs. Caracosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u98	Good evening, everyone who is watching the House today. In fact, I was extremely concerned about the tension with which Mr Karamanlis spoke about the examination of occupational diplomas over seventy-four years ago. Does the New Democracy intend to increase the retirement threshold and over seventy to reach about eighty? Instead of really taking care of these people, who do the hard work of the truck driver, the truck truck, as soon as possible, considering the heavy jobs, we say why we do not give them a professional diploma above seventy-four. Other questions, which were raised by previous speakers, were 'why now?' Four years - he says - couldn't you bring this bill? Really, the world was created after SYRIZA, that is, once SYRIZA entered the government? Before there were no worlds, there were no governments? Wasn't there any of you to make such bills? What kind of questions? Another question was: “When does the transaction take place? Is it done in the car?’ No, of course not. It can't be done in the car. It's clear. Except for the car, it's the transaction. The information systems that you so much contempt for them - and you have not generally despised them for no reason, because I do not think you are incapable of being governors in previous years of forming an excellent information system in all areas - we in time shape them everywhere, such as e-government, e-cash, etc. and move forward - a step forward in every area to put e-government, so that the landscape is clear, the transparency of whatever issue we want to promote. Of course, through e-government and through the camera, we will see whether the driver has properly operated and has received the diploma, or has failed, and has wrongly obtained the diploma. That's the camera criterion. It's not whether he's going to deal in there. It's to see if he really did his steps. In this direction - probably not complete, but it does not matter - ten steps have been taken. With this bill, we come to shape, first of all, the camera in the car, secondly, constant examiners, so that the questions do not arise. Anyone can examine a professional, so did you say, Dickie? Of course not. You also know that in the Committee on Road Safety, in which I participate - I am a member - many drivers have asked for the examiners to become university-level examiners, that is to say TEIs, etc. Mr. Consolas, who's in committee, will remember that. The bodies themselves, which come in, are seeking to upgrade the examiners. So it is a next step, which we really need to move forward and build a special body of examiners, so that they are familiar, experienced and can move forward. In this process, therefore, a special body is made. Changes are bound, i.e. for the sake of transparency, a examiner and examiner enter into the car and go by saying. But I want to talk very much about something else too, because it is really a complex problem, and the road is not just a road, it is not just a driver, it is not just a car, but it is also a whole city. It's the city, in other words, its signal. The driver goes down the street, what signals do we have? So the second part of this bill comes in, what we call a urban mobility sustainability plan. This is an amazing piece for those who can analyze it and understand it. Of course, we need the cooperation of local government, and especially of the first degree and later of the second, because, at one time, municipalities and self-government must take responsibility for them, plan at their place where they have a free space, where they will make cycling roads, which will put cars in place, which will put transport, how often and how often transport serves their citizens, that is, massive modes of transport. It is also extremely important to shape exceptional pavements. That is why the citizens, who listen to me today, would do well to vote mayors who would put the pedestrian on the pedestrian priority rather than the car as a priority. So this urban renewal plan is one of the most important of this bill, in my view. In other words, it is a strategic planning plan, which will certainly not take place tomorrow morning. But if it doesn't start, it'll never happen. That is why we must now - and with this bill - promote and finance, as provided for in this bill, so that there are committees in local government - they are defined by the first and second degrees - which will set up working groups, which will monitor and evaluate the intervention measures of the mobility plan, which will be financed by the co-financed or the national part of the public investment programme. It is important that we give value to this part, so that we have infrastructure projects reliably. Because it is not just the design of the infrastructure project. It is also the receipt of the infrastructure project, our road, on the sidewalk, which includes, as you can see, the word 'ladder'. Therefore, we have many issues to solve in order to address road safety issues at all levels. Here, therefore, it is very important to emphasise and see promotional programmes, which relate to electricity, maritime and air transport, bio-climate design of public space and much more that we could mention. However, we must, at some point, broaden our spirit, see what any bill means. It is clear that tomorrow morning may not be possible to do so, but it is specifically provided for in this bill and in detail, I can say, as we have a shortage of special examination areas. However, we'll close a piece of the city where tests are carried out. They are effective, that is, solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u99	Mr Constantine Tsiaras, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a legislative initiative by the Government, which could obviously, despite the different views, be regarded as welcome to an issue, which we know that we all, more or less, have many questions and many doubts about what has been debated so far. I do not want to stay exactly at the bottom of the debate, because there are different approaches, although I have just come to the bottom of the collapsing fellow Member, in fact, rejected many of the objections made by the Minister, saying, on the one hand, that trade is not taking place in cars, so any attempt to get this point of view through the systems is probably rejected by the collapsing system itself and, on the other, proposing that there should finally be a body of qualified examiners, which I think would be one of the answers to these questions and issues. But above all, I would like to stick to the fact, Minister, that, once again, in a bill, which seems to be common, it has no issues, that one way or another could justify parliamentary - I was telling you - 'excitements', and here there are issues. Ladies and gentlemen, in a bill with twenty key articles, we are waiting in the fourteen clarifications with ministerial decisions? How, really, does this House legislate in this year? I am not referring to the well-known phenomena of the inconceivable many amendments or issues which often call the parliamentary procedure into question. A bill ordinary - let me say - with twenty-one basic articles does need fourteen authorisations to the Minister's face, so that there can be ministerial decisions so that it can be clarified and finally applied? Where can anyone see that this is where we are doing the parliamentary procedure properly? In no case can anyone, in a year or so we know, on issues that must be fully transparent and fully informative to the Greek citizens, give a white cheque to no Minister in relation to what he wants to do in the future. In addition, there is a report from the General Accounting Office of the State, which clearly describes that there is no provision for the level of supply of the necessary audiovisual material and information systems. Does anyone know how much these are? It is assumed that one of the main structures of this bill, which brings about this change, which the Minister himself is working on, is how all these systems are to be implemented and how they will give us an update which, to a very large extent, will change the way in which the candidate drivers are trained and tested to date. Right now, no one knows how much it costs. This, of course, does not concern anyone, nor does there of course be any provision for the annual operating costs of the system in general. Besides, there's something nicer going on and Mr. Haritsis should be here, supposed to be moderate and support local government. There is a transfer of costs, without any provision whatsoever, in the regions. I am, of course, talking about the specific areas which need to be shaped, the training trails, as they are said, in which the training will also take place, but also the examinations of the candidate drivers. Nor should this be included in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, which, on the other hand, needs to create specific terms in order to pass this bill? Are we again faced with a reality that none of us know? Very good. So every time, in every bill, we will empower the Minister of State to identify and do them specifically with ministerial decisions. Is this a good parliamentary function? And I am addressing you, ladies and gentlemen of the co-population: is this the serious parliamentary function? I am saying all this because, apart from the fact that the New Democracy rapporteur, I think, raised all issues in a very concrete and very clear way, do you not see the fact that Article 17 raises the client state again? Twice as many as twenty, or forty of the inspectors? Do we have to have extra inspectors? Is the inspector the matter? Is the problem, which is being identified in the course of the examinations and in the whole process, with all these phenomena, which have been described by many colleagues earlier here in Stepa, found that inspectors are not enough? Also, let me go over the fact that it concerns how many runs will work or will work in the future. Or even get over the so-called combined driving, which is an issue. However, the question was raised by the rapporteur of the New Democracy: "Young people who are 17 years old obviously can vote, but on the other hand, on the basis of the logic and ideology of the SYRIZA governmental party in general, cannot lead alone". I'll get over all this! There is one issue that now concerns you and is confronting you with yourself. It's the inconceivable hypocrisy. Of course, I am referring to the fact that a few days earlier, when you voted in favour of an article in the Constitutional Review, the protection of all public goods, water, energy, all that - supposedly - is the ideological flag of the SYRIZA prolongation and Prime Minister, you are coming the next day, in fact through the TDIDE and the superstition to speed up privatisation procedures for the EUHCR and the UNHCR. That's why, "comrades", you're gonna say anything? You know, it's very nice to make fun of Greek citizens and to repeat a nice story, thinking they're luscious. On the other hand, there is reality itself. We vote with wishes, with public goods never getting them, and on the other hand, we are speeding up their privatisation procedures! Obviously, this legislative initiative belongs to the Minister, who is not here at the moment. I imagine, however, that he will have the emotiveness, that he will say a few words, and that is why he will explain the fact that, while others say on the one hand, he is rushing and supporting and voting and deciding on the other. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living a very morbid phase of the Greek political scene. I should like to close with this, which, I think, was more or less the point on which all of the Vice-Presidents have stood, regardless of the fact. It is not possible for public persons to be under such a process, where some to record conversations and others to make them public, with such a great comfort. This is a reality, which comes from a very dark age of the past, which, unfortunately, is repeated in the days of your own governance. Since I think that there are colleagues, even in co-population, who can stand up to such phenomena, we should, as soon as possible, shield democracy and public life in such a way that they are not repeated and do not become practical, just so that populism can find the fertile ground, in a political reality, which is urgently needed to change. Fortunately, the days are over. Fortunately, the elections are close. We are sure that the next day of the New Democracy, the next day of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, will enable Greek citizens and the Greek society to see their expectations justified, to see a better Greek state and, above all, to see that, with terms and rules of a truly democratic state, everyone can see their role and participation in a broader political and social process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u101	Mrs Fotini Arabaji has the floor from New Democracy. Mr Consola, Apostle and Stylus will then speak. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today, after four years of delay, aims - it is supposed to change the status quo in the issue of driving licences and hit the corruption circuits in the area. However, seeing the ministers who suggest it and the government that brings it, I think that it is only by laughing at me. Does SYRIZA really speak of fighting corruption, when he is dived to the neck in corruption and the Ministerial scandals, when former top ministers blame each other for money and sue each other? When the Minister is now borrowing 100,000 euros from the SYRIZA Bank to make it through, as he says, threatens gods and demons so that it won't be controlled? I'm telling you about your bank, Minister, in which you testified as president of the CSMEDA. Of course, along with Mr Spirtzi, the bill is also suggested by Mr Moraitis, who, up until a few months ago, called SYRIZA and Mr Spirtzi the greatest political fraudsters of post-population. All this, you know, would be very comedy if it were not tragically ridiculous and dangerous for the quality of our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the need to modernise the procedure for obtaining driving licences, but also to establish incomprehensible, transparent procedures, is an obvious priority for the New Democracy, which historically, ideologically and over time is in favour of these efforts. However, invoking transparency, by doing so in a rough and problematic way and effectively moving the whole issue to driving schools, is proof, if anything, of the pretext of dealing with the matter. And what is really causing from so-called transparent preachers of social dialogue, of disarmament of society, is that your bill never entered into consultation with stakeholders and stakeholders. You don't waste a minute listening to those involved, obviously, because in the vortex of your arrogance, apart from being afraid of the people, you think you have the absolute truth. This is an authoritarian way of thinking definitely and insulting mode of action. Because considering all those involved in a process, public officials, drivers' schools and others who have been devastated, is indeed an outrageous one, instead of at the same time asking for a sincere 'excuse', which you have for months held hostage citizens, examiners, drivers' schools and has not even heard an apology for the candidate drivers. And because I have visited the Transport Directorate of my Region of Serres, I am sad to see that your Government continues to display "allergies" on the question of controls, which has to do with transport. From 1 January 2016, your Government has stopped the mixed stages of the control of our Transport Administrations, undermining firstly the safety and legality of road transport, secondly, the interests of legal enterprises, which are against your tax and insurance support, trying to withstand, to survive, when undeclared and undeclared loads, Greek products pass undisturbed, without control under your nose. Coming from Serres and the entrance gate of Promahona, I cannot burn this misery unless - if I am not mistaken - since March 2018, Minister, you promised that these tiles will reopen, steps which - I am passing away - do not bear the state budget. I now come to the scandalous amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development, which was incorporated into Article 32 of the bill. We have a scandal and a confession of failure by your Government, which gives two years of extension to the preparation, submission and approval of our country's land-based management plans. In fact, we have four years of incompetence, four years of impotence, incompetence of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Because we do not forget, ladies and gentlemen of the collapsation, that the first bill of your Government, the concerned Ministry of Rural Development, was to give by Law.4351/2015 two years of extension to the drafting of these management plans, which had to be ready from January 31, 2017. Since 2017, we have gone to 2019. From 2019 we went to 2021 and boiled rice, which the people say. These management plans would be ready on 31 January 2017, if you did not, of course, throw us in 2015. For, ladies and gentlemen, it was us who, under Law 4264/2014, managed to deliver you a great national success, the legitimate Community multiplication of the pastures of our country in order to have cheap and inexpensive pastures, our farmers who are evacuated, unpredictable erosion of subsidies, without fines, legal, Community data and the 'Omnibus' regulation on grazing land from the seventeen million acres of twenty-five million acres. And why are these grazing land so important? But, ladies and gentlemen, it is the basis for triggering subsidies. And when do you do that? Of course, in the critical negotiations on the new CAP 2021-2027, which our country is facing, on the one hand, the reduction of the Community budget for agriculture, on the other hand, with the threat of external convergence, a scenario which is disastrous for our country... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. For external convergence, the Visegrad countries and the Baltic countries are counting on. You are thus undermining the rights and incomes of farmers, since of course you have undermined them with the alalum in the forest maps, where they have been unpaid, those whose areas have been considered as forests. So I ask Mr Arachovitis, although absent, who has had the courage to tell the committee that the management plans are irrelevant to subsidies: How many millions of acres of pasture are coming from our country in view of the critical new CAP? I demand an answer, because this is why the future of Greek livestock is judged. In fact, these EUR 20,000,000, he says, for the preparation of grazing land, where and how do they come from? Therefore, instead of coming unrealistic, typical and virtually absent from what is currently being said in the European Union about the new CAP, wake up, Minister for Rural Development, because you are and continue to be the slaughterers of Greek agriculture and the undermining of its future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-three students and students and three teachers from the General School of Poros. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall now proceed with Mr Consola Emmanuel from Rhodes to New Democracy. I'll say from the Dodecanese more widely, so we don't have any misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, because I know how intelligent you are, you have made this introduction to show that this bill does not apply. It cannot be implemented, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, because there is no provision for island Greece. I was seeing the President of the Committee on Road Safety on the margins of discussion, both in the Committee on Production and Trade and in the plenary, and I would like you to hear his speech, Minister, and to testify to you here, if what we have been discussing for so many years in the Committee on Road Safety, on the issues relating to this bill, is to the very least included in this bill. No, Minister, it's not included. And, as our rapporteur said, this could be an important bill, which has a national character, to apply throughout the territory and to issues that really concern road safety. It is a fragmentary bill, a bill which does not compose either the wings of the House and the society itself, because this bill should be dealt with in a rational manner, which is not done. And I don't say it, and Mr. Karamanlis doesn't say it, and you objected to his behaviour. That is what the representatives of the bodies who have discussed in the Committee on Production and Trade are saying. There are issues which we have brought to the Committee on Road Safety for so many years, issues that have prevented the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure from bringing to a debate here and, in fact, without consultation. Minister, the truth is: When did the consultation on this bill begin? Is it another place and another time, are the representatives of the bodies who objected to you there that there was no time for consultation? Are we all wrong to say there was no consultation? You know what? There is no doubt that there is a need for structures in matters relating to driving licences. No one disputes it here. However, if we want to talk about structures very seriously, the major road safety issue should be fully linked. It's not connected, because there's a fragmentary approach to this bill. Minister, we had spoken here at the National Representation, and in the Committee on Road Safety, as well as at other times in the Committee on Production and Trade, and I had even tabled a question on the development of the mobility licence. I had tabled the question that I tabled in the Minutes on 8 March 2017 and did not reply the Ministry, despite the fact that it states that there are people in the Ministry who are discussing this proposal. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In addition, the Ministry of Education did not respond to this question, except by transferring this issue to non-governmental organisations involved in education, training and lifelong learning on issues relating to mobility at school, society and centres for traffic education. This thinking of the proposal cannot only be limited to obtaining a driving licence, but we must discuss - and our President knows very well - the issues relating to travel, dangerous loads, transport, bicycles, pedestrians and the urban environment. This proposal concerns both children, high school and high school pupils, but also adults. For children there will be preliminary education in primary and secondary schools, while for adults the mobility certificate will be linked to an examination and will correspond to the driving licence. This proposal submitted to the Committee on Road Safety, do you adopt it or overlook it? The mobility diploma should be linked to an integrated education for city mobility, but also to national and provincial road networks, environment and man. The aim is to change the extremes and dangerous behaviours that exist throughout the territory, in the mainland and in the islands. I would like to remind you that, according to the Institute of the Institute of Technological Institute of Crete, the islands are on average victims. You know that, Minister, we have submitted it to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Have you included it as a parameter in your bill? We have said to adopt - if you do not want it to be applied throughout the territory - as an example of Rhodes or one of the Aegean islands to be a pilot example for sustainable mobility. You didn't. And you know, you didn't do it, Minister, because in fragmentation, you wanted to bring in just a few regulations and not solve this problem as a whole. Furthermore, another important issue is that once again, you are showing an excellent cynicism in dealing with road safety issues, since you do not want to adopt the national strategic road safety plan, which we have tabled and which we have discussed against the committee, but which has also tabled the University of Athens's Polytechnic in Parliament. In fact, I repeat once again, it would be extremely useful to discuss these issues of the National Strategic Plan on Road Safety, headed by the Prime Minister or President of the Republic. So the government has developed a completely foreign mentality with the intentions you had expressed in the election, but also with the intentions that you expressed as President of the Technical Chamber of Greece, which at the time led me to read the facts and I see that other things you said then, but now, Minister, unfortunately. In fact, I should like to tell you that it is not my opinion, it is a view of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Driving Trainingers, which has been discussed here in the Commission, but also in statements which they have tabled. Let me once again present this memorandum from the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Leaders with proposals. What have you adopted, Minister? I'd like to see it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You were adequately explained by the objections of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Instructors. Have you adopted some of them or not? An issue of security, which you should consider, is what our rapporteur has said, but also other colleagues, who are concerned with escorting the trainer during the examination of the trainee. These are issues relating to safety and road behaviour, which should probably be restrained at the last minute. Have you considered this, Minister, or have you adopted this proposal from the federation? I do not want to take any more time, Mr President. However, I would like to put forward once again the issues relating to the status of the bill in relation to the trails you have said. As far as spatial planning is concerned, in terms of construction, as far as the island area is concerned, are you facing this challenge? Where is a track in the Aegean? Have you calculated moving drivers, trainers, vehicles from one island to another and cost? Is there a budget? We have heard it from Mrs Arabatzis and from Mr Karamanlis as regards the report by the General Accounting Office of the State. As far as matters are concerned, Mr President, I shall end with what you have created with the abstention of drivers. You know very well what agitation was created throughout the country with twenty thousand candidates waiting. While, seemingly, this issue has been resolved for the moment, we are suddenly finding that the examiners who are part of the Staff Register, mainly concerning officials from the regions, are absent. Is that why you have an answer? So, Minister, I would like to invite you once again, apart from the fact that there are dozens of interministerial decisions to implement this law, hear the bodies that have tabled proposals to you, but also the Pan-Hellenic Federation, but above all the New Democracy's proposal, which has been expressing its objections since the first time, and that is why we cannot be positive about any challenge to the bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u105	We continue with our colleague from SYRIZA Mr. Evangelos Apostleou. Mr. Stylus, Mrs. Triantafyllou, Mr. Kyriazidis lives and we close with Mr. Ursouzidis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said, especially on an amendment on grazing land, and I will, in fact, take up the contents of the bill for a moment. After all, by the impression I have gained, almost everyone agrees on the need to upgrade and improve the system of behavioural processes of the candidates and to highlight their qualifications. The necessary interventions are being made, and I believe that a problem that has afflicted Greek society for years will find its definitive and correct solution. I would, however, like to stress, in particular, the fact that a great deal has been said and that much has to be answered, since a large part of this procedure on grazing and livestock management in general has been responsible for this. I would first of all like to make it clear that, unfortunately, many colleagues have not understood the terms 'catching land' and 'green land'. Bosphoric earths are called these lands that are grazing in our country. These areas, therefore, which are grazing, are not all considered to be eligible from the European Commission's point of view. They are considered to be part of them and those considered eligible, to be linked to rights, are called pasture. It's very simple. With Law No.4351/2015 on grazing land - which I consider to be an emblematic for livestock - the National Charter of Bosquite Farms entered into our country's legal arsenal for the first time and the state's obligation to draw up the management plans for grazing these land was introduced. That's for the first time. Two were the objectives of this regulation: the first was to rationalise the areas eligible for grazing, in order to secure, through the addition of other areas, the rights to aid farmers, but also to avoid the hundreds of millions of fines, which the European Commission imposed on us after all controls. It is forgotten by colleagues from previous governments that we had around 150, 180, 200 million fines every year on this big issue. The second reason was to record and make good use of our livestock farming of some sixty million acres of forest land in our country that are now grazing. So the first objective I've told you, we served him directly by mapping through the temporary - I repeat, as you deliberately ignore it - the management of grazing land. This mapping was necessary - and with the justification for doing so in the European Commission, we asked for and obtained the agreement of the European Commission to incorporate the eligibility of these areas, which you said previously in a splendid manner, but also wood vegetation. This, however, took a period of time, because we had to have recorded these areas, so that we could ask the European Commission, which was indeed at the end of 2017, through the proposal ‘Omnibus’ that brought about the partial revision of the CAP accepted our request. We therefore expect this to be finalised by the beginning of the summer. This is the programming of the European Commission. So from the next programming period, as it was indeed our goal, we have over 8 million acres of these lands to be part of the selectivity to solve these problems once and for all. The second one we served with the creation for the first time in our country of a National Geographical Database of Bossential Earths is what we are currently preparing to do and are the management plans for grazing land. It is a base that we want to build, which will be updated and which will be the vegetation feed tank, with feed such that not only will significantly reduce the cost of feedingstuffs that exceed 75%, but will also serve in the biennial case of our country's animal production, which is the main and best tool we have in order to enable the international market, particularly livestock farming, to support it. The use of all these grazing areas therefore goes through these management plans which we are debating right now. The costs of these studies are related to the data available both from the drafting of the provisional plans - I repeat - and from what the state has today, such as recording habitat types in the NATURA areas, mapping and demarcation of these areas, forest maps, geological maps, water management plans, flood risk maps and the basic, of course, OPECE background. That is why I think we should first see all the information we have and then see what these missing elements are to complete the management plan for a region and then come to the cost. I believe that, through such an approach, costs will be much less than the 20 million mentioned in the explanatory statement to the amendment. There are already 5.5 million of previous year's grazing fees collected for backward projects from the regions. Not used. The Ministry may agree to cover the costs with this sufficient amount to cover the work required by the management plans, as well as one year for the preparation of the management plans. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The 3.2 million received from farmers' aid this year should be used for specific projects to be planned in the management plans after their completion and in particular for the improvement of pastures through sustainable management. In order to promote projects, the 10 million more referred to in the explanatory statement do not need. That is why I consider it unnecessary to involve the Agriculture and Animal Health Fund in drawing up the management plans, let alone when it is foreseen that this amount will be offset by aid for livestock production over the next few years. That is why I think this can be dealt with in dialogue with the regions which have undertaken to draw up these management plans and also with the entire management of grazing land. There is money, as well as there are possibilities for financing this work in future through resources relating to the management of forest land.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u107	Mr George Stylos from the Prefecture of Arta Epirus has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the previous speaker, former Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Apostle, has been put on the table and I want to remind you of two - three things and then talk about the bill. It was the Government of New Democracy which recommended changing the definition of grazing and grazing land and approved by the European Union. From 2014 until today, if we do a subtraction, it has been about four and a half to five years. Since then, the current government has had, as it had promised, to proceed with the creation of the management plans for pastures and grazing land. This has not happened. It's been four and a half years. Today, then, we have an amendment to the effect that this work is being carried over, that work is being assigned to the Greek regions to carry out this task. What impact does this have on Greek production and Greek farmers? It has a long delay in being able to issue and obtain aid on the basis of the land and real land available to everyone. And what do we see and see, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in the Greek region? We see the Greek region devastated, the Greek territory shrunk, the farmers mainly leaving their herds and their animals, without any other way out. The current government once again confirms itself, too much, great words, announcements that it will control imports, that they will impose invoices for producers to be paid on time and that they will beat the industry. They close their farms, damage the producers, reduce their livestock in the country and the government has understood nothing and continues at the same rate. The citizens - in my opinion - have reached the conclusions. The country's productive world has understood. The elections are coming, the results will be given by the productive world on the night of the elections. Self-government and regional elections are coming. So I see that you have thrown a white towel and you do not go down in many of these elections. Let's move on. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the bill entitled 'Testing of qualifications and behaviour of candidates for driving licences and drivers, other provisions on driving licences and other provisions'. According to the official figures of the Greek Police, in 2017 in our country they died in traffic accidents seven hundred and thirty of our people, while another seven hundred were wounded very seriously. Every year, then, there is a genocide on the streets of our country. Two are the reasons. The first is infrastructure and the second is road behaviour, road culture and the issues of education that our drivers have. In this second instance, the bill we are discussing today plays a decisive role. Why does he play a decisive role? Because the evaluation system of the candidate drivers reflects the education, culture, behaviour and attitude of each driver. So this bill comes, and while it should only be about creating a modernised framework for assessing the qualifications and behaviour of the candidates, it does not do so. While it should be a first priority objective that does not fit with micropolitical nor ideological differences - because it concerns the safety of our children, it concerns the safety of all of us - we have many reservations about this draft law as to whether it can lead to this. And I very much explain why. Once again, the Government ignored the parties involved, the stakeholders. The bill didn't come into consultation. First, the existence of the examiner himself at the two stages of examination is inconsistent with what the Ministry's leadership is trying to proclaim with this draft law, while maintaining transparency. In my opinion, a different examiner should be provided for the course and different for the specific procedures. Applicant drivers shall be required during the course of their examination to provide specific insurance cover. This alone, however, is not sufficient to cover the absence of the instructor of the driver in the course of the course and poses very great risks for the creation of accidents. Other serious problems are as follows: While proclaiming the Ministry that the bill is very successful, it has not told us how the Ministry can ensure the uninterrupted coverage of the network throughout the course of the examination, and how much more so in the province and especially in the island regions - Mr Consolas mentioned just now - because you know that the data is being transmitted in real time to the Ministry's control centre and is not being recorded about it. In accordance with Article 7, testing of the second stage for the demonstration of driving skills is carried out on specially designed spaces or tracks. We ask the Minister responsible and the Ministry this: why does he not present us with a list - it has also been set up in committee - with the available trails to date? There is no provision in the piece of legislation for regions with no special spaces, runs for testing candidates' qualifications, and certainly there is no provision for funding the regions for the creation of these credits. In conclusion, I am going to refer to Article 8: will it, Mr Minister, be implemented in good time and will the information system for data transmission be functional and user-friendly? We doubt it. Last March's law, for example, provided for information systems for taxis recording. It has been over ten months and none of this has been implemented. No provision has also been made for candidate drivers in the event of delay. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is fragmentary, it does not guarantee the public character of the examinations, it does not solve the problems, but it creates confusion and strengthens them. The legislation, despite its invoking transparency, does so in a rough and problematic way, while in practice it transfers responsibility and issues to the driving schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u109	My colleague has the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Maria Triantafyllou. Here comes Mr. Kyriazidis and the list is closed with Mr. Ursouzides. Here, Mrs. Triantafel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is said that there is an undeniable need to change the framework with a view to contributing to changing driving behaviour and strengthening safety. Of course, we must say that, in the transport sector, important developments have taken place every day, on the one hand, because of the progress of technology and, on the other hand, because of changes in legislation which directly affect transport. The institutional framework that existed so far in the examinations of the candidates was, in general, not in line with the current requirements for examination and the new data. In most cases, infringements and infringements - without, of course, always being this rule - defined the way in which diplomas and driving behaviour were taken, so that our country is largely deprived of what we call driving education and proper conduct on the road. These results, of course, were tragic. Our country was for many years a champion in traffic accidents, with drivers ignoring basic driving behaviours and a parasitic mechanism in the process of getting a diploma, which was based with the responsibility of those who were in power. The Ministry of Infrastructure has made an effort in recent years to reverse this reality and in a number of arrangements it has tried to change this particular situation and to pass a different culture on to the issues of driving and safety. And I would point out that there are concrete measures with matter and books and the electronic system for teacher education in all grades of primary school, with changes and tightening up in the Road Traffic Code and the most frequent controls, with the completion of the checks and databases for private cars and public use, as well as with many other regulations aimed at modernising the framework and mitigate the phenomena of invasiveness. The draft law on candidate drivers has been trying to deal with and deal with issues that have been agitating the driving licence system for decades. I would like to point out a few points, because while it was heard against the background that there was no dialogue and, in any case, the stakeholders were ignored, and with regard to us Members and, of course, with regard to the Ministry of Infrastructure, there was a long consultation. There have been many meetings of our own, all of the Members of Parliament, I imagine, of all the regions, with similar associations, and there are some points that need to be stressed. A point about whether drivers should be present during the examination procedure was raised by almost most speakers. I would like to say that what we need to take into account - at least from my own contact - is as follows: most of them, are to ensure that there are appropriate examiners. In other words, they are qualified, with experience, by pre-service, to undertake this specific part of the examination. That is what has been set out and, indeed, in a strong way - and he has done well and has been put forward - and I think that we should give all our efforts to ensure that there are such examiners. There are some other points I would like to make, which have also been tabled to the committee. For example, in relation to the runways there are some points that I think the Ministry of Infrastructure should look at, but it should also protect some points. It states, for example, a specific club, that the runs are only a solution for specific tests, but they must in any case be public in nature and exist in all the prefectures. In fact, I would like to endorse this in all the prefectures, and I would like to endorse it, as the first of course, because, if it does not exist, it can enable examinations to be carried out. So this is a point that we need to see. Also, in another location in relation to manoeuvres and these special tests, they say they are somehow outdated and anachronistic, arguing that the way in which cars are constructed today - the fact that they are equipped with a multitude of electronic systems - helps drivers make a series of moves, such as parking themselves, maintaining the lane, etc. I would like to say with all this and, of course, with many others, which have been tabled by many of my fellow speakers, that there are points which the Ministry of Infrastructure must be particularly interested in monitoring and giving concrete answers. For me, however, it is a very important effort, it is a positive effort. It's an effort, which will be transmitted live and recorded. Of course, all the insurance systems must be in place here, as they have heard from too many colleagues. I also have to say that this is a bill that tries, through the use of new technological data, to simplify and ensure, in terms of modernity, a specialised sector, which has had many problems for many years. I would like to point out that when we talk about this, we have to be careful, because it is an area that produces very daily and very practical results and its pathogens have had an impact on society throughout the world. Finally, as far as I can see, the new Undersecretary, my compatriot, who I would like to welcome as a partner - and not as an 'willing' - is not next to the Minister, as a partner, so that we can put the new, solid foundations for a progressive, time-consuming governance in the country. And you know that progressive changes will be judged in practice, in the effort and outcome, which will improve and redetermine daily culture, even in its most practical cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u111	My colleague from New Democracy, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Maniatis, in his mention of this step, referred to the Minister, noting that he is the longest-lived Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. He added, of course, the Minister: 'Yes, but after Laliotis'. You were his student, weren't you, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u113	After Costas Laliotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u114	You were his student. Indeed, Minister, you are distinguished for your creative work. We saw it in my area too. Four years have become the road axis Dramas - Amphipolis, the connection to Ennatia, a dream! And when we talk about it, it is a joke and I am very ashamed of myself to refer precisely to the isolation of the county that I serve. Four years! You have recently told us that we should see whether this work is sustainable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u115	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u116	Sure. I've got the Minutes and I'll give them to you. Besides, I expect you to come after a time-consuming I have tabled for some time now sometime to answer that. After four years, you have found that the work is not progressing, the studies do not grow, because a technical consultant is lacking. And you signed such a decision: 179,000 in order to ensure, after four years, a technical consultant to go ahead with the studies, because the relevant address has a lot of work lately. And, of course, I am also aware of some expropriations without state funding, without planning, without a budget, without a relevant national or Community programme. My European Commissioner replied: 'I have no position or suggestion from your government. Please address it.’. Please, Minister, at least repair this road that covers two prefectures - Serres and Dramas - because it must be your work. It's an interregional issue. I see that my SYRIZA colleague's amendment on the problem that arises on the National Road of State-Mytilini is accepted in order to repair, strengthen, etc. So give the funding to finally repair this piece. We had a hundred and forty - three traffic accidents, twenty - three injuries and seven dead. At least let us respect this element concerning human life, Minister. Seven months are therefore preparing the draft legislation, seventy thousand of our fellow citizens trapped and hostage to obtain a driving licence. As a result, the examiners protest, as in a critical economic situation in the country, in addition to the negative faced by the candidate drivers under the pressure they had on a daily basis, you led many to the closure of schools, the inability to meet their personal and family needs and the prospective drivers of meteor and weak to meet needs that would solve them by obtaining the desired driving licence or extension for business reasons. Of course, we agree to strengthen - to ensure the objective and objective of transparency and objectivity in terms of how to carry out the tests and to obtain the desired permit of competence. Unfortunately, however, this bill does not achieve the thing. Of course, legislative regulations are imposed over time, which are in line with reality and modernise situations. Is this a bill like this? No, of course not. The solution to the whole question is passed on to the bodies you place in committee. They also denounced the whole procedure that took place without consultation and in the absence of consultation. The whole problem, that is, the lack of regularity in the issue of a procedure - an intervention which you are focusing on school instructors and which leads you to throw them out of the examination process, and then proceed to the loading of the drivers' vehicle. This is global paradox and original. And you who were against whoever, even lawfully, watched to ensure the life and property of our fellow citizens, now cable from an end to the entire examination procedure. This is not the case in any democratic country. All you've forgotten is a certificate. I believe that, unfortunately, you are preparing for this too. The passenger's seat will not be seated by the instructor of the candidate, but by the instructor of another school. Applicant drivers over seventy years of age, instead of strict medical examinations only, will be required to give three examinations, theoretical, course and specific tests for each driving licence they hold. A driver of a seventy-four-four-year-old truck will have to carry out tests for the professional driving licence, for the IX which, obviously, is doubled, nine tests. I close with the need for special spaces, training trails - examination of the candidate drivers. Since, of course, one of the twenty-seven ministerial decisions provided for in the bill in question has to be adopted, no details are laid down. Creating believers or forming the existing ones, but with what funds? Minister, there is a track in Drama, but the candidate drivers are led to the next floor, to the fields, in order to find a way, if you like, to relief and other issues. There is nothing at all and without funds there is no guarantee of the candidates themselves, but those who, if you like, are in the workplaces of these areas. Finally, certain safeguards and human situations must be ensured and you must anticipate them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u117	Minister, listen to me now. You must now testify to the legislators so that the services can start working on them, because otherwise we will have to interrupt the meeting. In your speech we will take more time to develop them. But testify now, so the services can pick them up and start integrating them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I am ready. After all, most of the legislative or changing articles or supplementing, on the basis of the observations made by all the wings, because in this draft law we are very open to accept all the rational remarks from all the wings, except for the New Democracy, which did not submit any specific changes. So, they're quite legal. Some of these were also tabled at the committee's meeting. I'm filing them. The improvement of the Members of Parliament, Mr Katsi, has been accepted - and also by the KINAL and the Central Association - regarding a technical and economic study that we must have to analyse the operating costs of education schools and establish the minimum operating costs. Two ministerial amendments are being tabled. One for the implementation - because we have been through at this stage - of the previous law between the Civil Aviation Agency, the PSC and the PSC. They are specific, if you would like, details to be laid down on Eurocontrol and the compensation given from there, as are another amendment which relieves professionals where we have different trailers or renewal of driving licences for medical reasons, to pay back the paradox. There is also one for the renovation of S.A., which gives the possibility of financing from the Ministry of Infrastructure's budget. A parliamentary amendment, by Mr Karastasis, to the area of Agios Konstantinos Fthiotidas and to the National Road of State - Mytilini, is also accepted in order to proceed with the two projects...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u119	Good. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done. So testify to them quickly to finish until Mr Ursouzidis comes to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u120	I put it to you, Mr President. It's one more thing until Mr. Ursouzidis comes up in Step, which has to do with the completion...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u121	Is that ministerial or parliamentary?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u122	Ministerial.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u123	By who? Yours?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u124	I'm sorry, she's a parliamentarian. It's Mr. Vardakis. I'm tabling them for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u125	Minister, can I also say to my colleague, Mr Karayannides, to table an amendment to repair the road?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u126	Do you want to talk about the road? Can I give you an answer if the Bureau allows?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u127	I was thinking maybe I should tell my colleague. It's not bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Cryazides says different. Mr Kyriazidis says whether this can be incorporated into the same amendment. The Minister says to give you an answer. The answer may be given to his speech. You're asking for another, though. To come in and...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Ursuzidis, however. I'm saying if that's possible...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u130	I see. To vote today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u132	I got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u133	What can be voted on today? That the road will be built?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u134	We are, of course, calling for a repair, Minister. From the state budget you get money. Why don't you come here and give me some rehab?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u135	Give an answer, however, if you can, at least in time, when it can be done, because I understand that you cannot now incorporate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, in the constant tactics of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriazidis is making a mistake. I'll tell my position what we've lived for all these years. In the design of the Ministry of Infrastructure, as well as of the Region of Central Macedonia, as well as of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, there was no commitment to become the street of Drama - Amphipolis ever.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u137	For the repair, Minister, I would like to beg you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u138	Will you let me answer? Don't you want to hear them? In their design they had the street Drama - Kavala, which had many environmental problems...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u139	Now we're not going to take it as a timely question. For this question, do you have anything to say to Mr. Cryazides?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u140	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u141	Tell him, please, because I don't put time, but you're talking ten minutes. The night won't catch us!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u142	You're right. We're talking about driving licences, so you understand that I have everything in my mind for all of Greece. So the road is from us. We have committed ourselves and not you and we have put the Amphipolis road to planning. In Amphipolis you saw the grave of Alexander the Great, if I remember well. He's matured the first place. Advisers have been assigned to mature the rest of the project and the first part of the project will be launched...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u143	Minister, I'm talking about repair. I'm talking about a small amount of repair, so people don't get killed. Do you understand me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u144	It will be auctioned as a new project. We Mr. Kyriazidis, are making infrastructure projects that are integrated in their design...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u145	Well, the Minister says 'no' to the repair. That is what we are talking about, and that is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u146	But it's in the district.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u147	Say that, that is, it's a region, and you can't!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u148	It's two regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u149	Here, Mr. Ursouzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that a bill has come late, which was necessary for the test of qualifications and behaviour of the candidates. This is an issue which I think we have discussed at several meetings in the Committee on Road Safety. Is there a need to change the method of monitoring the candidates for the procedure? I think that all the bodies that came to our committee agree that there is a matter and directly spoke of corruption. We therefore all agree that something bad has happened in the past and that there is a need to change that. Now, if the bill being passed succeeds at 100% or not, that's another matter. I think, however, that it is moving in the right direction and whether it works or not, this is not only about the Ministry or the people who have been over the problem to transform our own proposals into action through the committee, but obviously also about the people who, in one way or another, are involved in the problem. In other words, we must understand that a young man at the age of eighteen cannot come into contact with corruption in such a provocative way, I would say. I mean, it's like the state gives him a document, a certificate, which certifies the knowledge that it can lead, creates the illusion to him that he's capable, out on the streets, kills or is killed himself. Unfortunately, this was an issue which I call fat, but which was raised in committee. Therefore, it is right that the Ministry takes the initiative and attempts to change this situation. As regards older people over seventy-four years of age, Article 11 stipulates that they will be required to certify their competence in specially designed areas, so that they do not risk themselves or pose a risk by going out on the streets and especially on the people accompanying them to supervise them, i.e. the examiners. So an issue that has been raised in committee has been resolved in this way. I think that the regions and the state should help to shape these sites, otherwise there is a problem. Article 22 speaks of sustainable urban mobility projects, which are absolutely essential, I would say. Any mayors who have taken initiatives have greatly improved the situation in their cities by protecting citizens from accidents and by indicating that this knowledge which is transformed by the technicians of the country finds the absolute, I would say, application to people who have open ears and brains and understand the problem. Two days ago I was in Larissa at an event held by the Pan-Hellenic Association of Local Government Secretarys, who - and I congratulate them on this step - took the initiative of informing and informing experts in order to take initiatives. There are a number of examples in our country now. I think that the case of Rethymnon is the most representative of improving citizens' driving conditions when measures are taken under a specific target and study. Another example is Kozani in our region, just like the city of Larissa itself. Another issue was the new drivers from the seventeen when they try to gain experience with attendance. That was also put into committee. I think it was encouraging in people's view that this better prepares drivers to have an experience when they get out on the streets. In fact, it's not something that happens only in our country, but it's happening elsewhere. Usually when I go up to the Step over my entire four-year term here, I only limit myself to the specific subject of the bill we're discussing. Today, however, I was very provoked by people who question, I would say, self-evident. Three are the main axes that one needs to serve to reduce the deadly and heavy traffic in any country in the world. That's what science says. The first is infrastructure. In infrastructures, therefore, I think the Ministry is getting "excellent". Projects that have been pouring for many years under specific contractors' logics and practices - I will say again, 'pimps', in introductory form - were completed in 2017. In the years in which this loose ends, citizens were forced to use the secondary road network. The people involved in the committee know very well that deaths on closed motorways are far less than on the secondary road network and than in the urban environment. Consequently, the completion of these projects - I think five hundred kilometres - in 2017, instead of 2012, which had all the date of completion, has given the corresponding results. As from 2000 to 2010, we have had a very large reduction in the deadly roads due to the gradual integration of PATHE and Egnatia roads, so in the last four years with the inclusion of these roads we have had a significant reduction, despite increasing traffic on the Greek roads to around 27%. However, what the Greek taxpayer cannot understand is the scale of the damage. It is not the EUR 1.2 billion, which we have also paid for three projects, according to the report of the European Court of Auditors. It is the loss you have in human lives of use during the corresponding period of inappropriate roads. So it is much greater damage than the nominal EUR 1.2 billion, which comes from the report that we have at our disposal and which I have tabled in my previous speech. So many issues are interpreted because they were left behind in the country and how this country went bankrupt. I am also going to have to make a political comment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will be allowed. I just need a minute. The day before yesterday, Mr Tsukatos confessed that 16 billion drachmas were only used in one year, it is meant for the benefit of PASOK and at the expense of the other parties. It's not just the number. On the one hand, it gives rise to a terrible impression that New Democracy's silhouette is a fish. Why doesn't he come out and report it? [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] On the other hand, however, there is another dimension. This money was given not by some naive. They had a benefit they were expecting. The reality says that access to money of this kind creates - within introductory forms - 'profit' to those who pay from 10 to 100 times. In other words, if the EUR 345 million has been raised for ten or per cent - that is what experts say - you are aware of the extent of the damage over a number of years that has been happening in our country. This money, therefore, has been missing from all the actions of the Greek State regarding the protection of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u151	I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Xanthi Gymnasio. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now we will give the floor to the Minister for 20 minutes. I hope we don't spend time. Then the Members of Parliament who have not spoken will speak. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a comment on what has been said not about the draft law, but about the general political issues. I am addressing, above all, the colleagues on the hillside, the progressive, democratic world of the country, not the New Democracy. Because many of us come from the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, others from the Interior KEI, others from the KEI, as we grew up in our adolescence, then in the mass spaces, the amphitheatre, unionism, with the executives, with the people who believed on the Left, with its various versions, we had learned to cooperate. We were working together in the neighborhood, in the youth clubs, in the fifteen-member councils, in the amphitheatres, in the Technical Chamber, in the scientific clubs. So, it is particularly strange and strange in my ears to denounce people who come from this space that is part of the Left and cooperate with the other parts of the Left - because in all the critical historical moments for the country the progressive world has made fronts both in society and in Parliament, and before the dictatorship and after the dictatorship - and some to make forth with New Democracy today, and indeed with its extreme right versions. This is something that progressive citizens take into account and will then assess. And, of course, I understand the panic of the New Democracy, when it sees that this front of progressive forces has a resonance on society. He understands that a firm force, such as SYRIZA, with divisions, with real reforms in Greek society, will go ahead and find a contradiction to the majority of the forces of the Greek people. Now let's go to the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today, after many decades, the amendment of an anachronistic system of tests on driving licences, a system which every citizen knows his or her diabetics, is aware of, the first time that young people in the country, every young person and every news, have been in contact with public services in an action that they are long waiting for, to be able to drive a car, to be tactics, education, the 'exodus', not to be good drivers, not to have knowledge of road safety, but to oil up, to give a miserable driver's licence. It is the first main contact with public services in the regions and the tragic consequences, with loss of human life, are known, with heavy accidents all over the lives of our fellow citizens who have been able to experience such unwanted situations. I would like, before I place myself on the draft law, to mention to the House the integrated, holistic plan and institutional interventions, the changes that have been made to move forward to a new era and to the issues of road safety, to limit to a lesser level the loss of human life, human suffering, from heavy, serious accidents, injuries and the consequences that follow in the lives of our fellow citizens. In this direction we have moved forward and promoted two main sections: The first section concerns infrastructure on the national road network and on the country's provincial in cooperation with the regions. It is indicative of the vertical decline in road accidents that have been completed and have been delivered and the wounds of the accidents are deep - we all remember them - in Tempus, PATHE, anti-Yannina, Corinth - Patras, Corinth - Tripolis and Kalamata. Efforts to improve infrastructures with new road projects continue, either with new motorways or with projects to improve the specifications of motorways. Let's say next week, as far as I know, they've been sent from the Ministry and there's the contest procedures for informing the competent committee of the Patras-Tower motorway. In progress are the competitive procedures for the North Road Crete and will be completed soon. A series of projects have been planned to close the ring of the Peloponnese, for Drama - Amphipolis, for many others, and road safety actions, since we have also discussed with the European Bank to run a 500 million project throughout Greece, on the dangerous points identified by the Ministry of Infrastructure, from studies that have been carried out and which have been pending over a decade. The second category of actions concerns the framework of road safety, the education of all of us, our driving behaviour and our culture. Specifically, for the last four years, books, educational materials, online programs, have been made to introduce lessons to all primary school classes. An electronic platform for teacher training was set up. These are flying pilots. They won't. They're done. We changed the Road Traffic Code with large sections that turn the COK from a Road Traffic Code, which did not deliver all these years, in a code that trains us, to give all of us the sign of respect for the life and health of our fellow citizens. We don't have the Road Traffic Code to penalise the citizen. We have it, for each of us to understand that its action is life, everyday life, culture, the health of our fellow citizen and society. With the draft law that we are discussing, we are moving towards our objectives, a progressive example of a state that is evolving and mobilising the change of social standards and attitudes, a new social code of values, the human potential and skills that it must have, to withstand a reform of time, prevention, control, to ensure that this project is properly implemented. We are talking today about the new system of qualification and behaviour tests for candidates and many important areas are included in this draft law. The first is that the House is changing its examinations. Today we don't have special examiners. The regions put an employee from all the services that exist. We do not have a body that is trained, is trained, has driving licences. Today an examiner for a professional driver on a bus, in a heavy vehicle, in a truck, in a truck, does not have his own driving license and the New Democracy is proud of it. It says "go change this dreadful system". The second section is the conduct of the special tests without the presence of the examiner in the training vehicle. It's obvious why. He asked a representative of the New Democracy if the transaction takes place in the vehicle. We will be told by the experts where the transaction takes place and by those who have served this system and those who are still defending this system today, when every citizen knows exactly what is going on. The third is the innovation in the process of testing qualifications and behaviour of all categories of driving licences without the presence of trainers and professional vehicles. The fourth is the introduction of compulsory insurance against the owner and owner of the vehicle. They say the insurance won't give, because they don't have such an insurance product. Why? The examiners will have the same qualifications as drivers and instructors. Why won't they give? He doesn't understand it, nobody notices it. Today why do they give? The fifth section is the possibility of performing the special tests by using an electronic system for automatic recording of data and procedures and automatically extracting the results. The sixth section is the development of a system of supervision and control of trainers carrying out the theoretical examinations. You heard what happened to Piraeus, how many driving licenses were given without having given tests theoretically. It is to the credit of the Attica and the Region that its services revealed this circuit. The seventh section is the possibility of taking action to correct and improve the work of inquiry, of retraining these people in this House, of re-accreditation, temporary or definitive removal if we find other procedures that we are currently living in. The eighth section is the continuing evaluation of trainers and examiners. The ninth section is the creation of specially designed spaces or believers to perform the special tests. We are told 'Where will the money and the space be found?' Let me tell you all about Greece. Three camps have been given to Thessaloniki. From one to every big city center. And Athens. Where will the money be found to make these traffic parks, where will the tests take place? They will be found from the paradox that is provided for in the draft law. One third of the offender goes to the regions for road safety and trails. It is also provided for in the previous law, Mr Katsotis, I will report to you later, I have noted it. It is clear that these areas are the responsibility of the regions and operate under the responsibility of the regions. They're public. The 10th section is the creation of a single information system. There's a criticism. You say "then you will do the electronic systems, the law is inapplicable." We were told the same about other draft laws and other electronic systems and public works. It's all working. We were also asked about what is provided for in Law 4530. Already the first electronic platform has been delivered to the Ministry and the next few days will be operational. But we'll get to New Democracy and what it says. The eleventh section is the formation of a sanctions mechanism. The twelfth section is the introduction of a possibility for candidate drivers at the age of 17 to drive vehicles with an escort. The thirteenth section is the removal of the exemption for payment of wrongdoing in the case of a copy of a driving licence. The fourteenth section relates to the reform of the existing institutional framework of the Board of Inspectors of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. The fifth section - it is a large section - is the introduction of procedures for the development, approval, implementation and monitoring of sustainable urban mobility, which we will finally know in the urban centres how all transport is combined, so that the citizens can also know. The sixth section, which had also mentioned the JRC, is for the maximum in the daily driving time. I want to make a clarification here. It does not say that they can take a break after the hours we predict. It's also in the drivers' regulation that. What he says is that they have to take half an hour, within the maximum time that these people can work, so that we can also have safety there in rail transport. I believe that it is a common place for all citizens, the whole of society, outside the New Democracy, and that is why parties in opposition, who probably disagree with the general, if you want philosophy, or with the policy of government, in this draft law, they vote 'parties' - and I am not only talking about the JRC, I am talking about the Centro Association - or they vote at the outset, such as the KINAL. Only New Democracy understands the need to change the system of tests for driving licences and also characterises it as a fragment. Let me remind you, then. Every Minister of the New Democracy - and not just - at every election period, at every receipt he made to the Ministry, has been announcing a change in the system of examinations for thirty years. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have not dared. You dare not mess with your old-fashioned mechanisms. You have never dared and you will never dare, firstly, because you will not be given the opportunity, but also because you have built - and in particular the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport - mechanisms which give and receive for your political reproduction, especially in the prefectures and regions below. Remember what? Remember OSTH, the fake tickets, the KTEOs, your new neoliberal innovations, the urban CBELs you were ready to exterminate, the taxis you were ready to exterminate? What should we want to do first? We're not afraid to make cuts. We're not afraid to put them in interests. We're not afraid to mess with your populism and your old-fashioned communism. We will move on from areas and reforms. And I'm going to respond to one of the points of the New Democracy criticism. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative spoke of problematic arrangements. Well, that's what we're told in every draft law. They're disguised by life. "If anyone accepts that there is corruption." That's what Mr. Katsaniotis said. Because nobody knows there's corruption in this space. Since you do not accept it, Mr Katsaniotis, I will read the information note of the Greek Police Home Affairs Directorate. He sits behind you and a Member who has served the Greek police. Deferred duty and bribery of employees. It is about the Regional Unit of Corfu, about the practical and theoretical examinations of candidate drivers of all categories. They didn't give any theoretical tests here, they went through them like that. It says in detail that there were too many candidate foreigners, some of whom were completely ignorant of writing and reading Greek. They testified that they had previously given officials from the Regional Unit of Corfu, through the Corfu Driver Schools, to whom they had addressed a sum ranging from 400 to 1,300 euros. And he says in detail how someone who didn't even know how to speak or write Greek would pass the exam. Terrible. There's nothing! It says below who have admitted it, who have confessed. Shortly in Corfu it will not be possible to get a driving licence because it is limited, in your opinion, the phenomenon. Then there's another case. Dismantling of criminal organisation and three gangs involved in the issue of driving licences, etc. He says the names, everything, what happened here. This is where they were from strangers. This is where we had become a driving licence laundry as a country. And there's both the examiners and the driver schools, everyone. You alone didn't know that. All Europe knows that except you. And it says which regional units were investigated. To figure out what was going on, except for New Democracy that closes its eyes. In Atalant, Lamia, Corinth, in Trikala we had forgery of certificates, active and passive bribery, false attestation, document falsification, complicity and seriality. Laconia Laconia Ladder. And I don't know what's wrong with him. He's got everything, half of Greece. This is a case that the Greek police saw. I'm not filing it. I'll give it to you, if you want, unless, Madam President, there's some way of not showing the names, because the case is the prosecutor and investigating it. Parliamentary representatives, however, should come to see it. The second thing New Democracy has said, since it does not accept that there is a problem, is the spectacular work of the New Democracy. You also mentioned Mr. Papadopoulos. Yes, sir. You grew up then. You abolished by a ministerial decision the electronic system that controlled private KTEOs and the last draft law, before the break-up of the House, one day before the break-up of the House, you had a few weeks of special provisions, amendments, to serve such interests. So, what are the changes you made four years ago? In four years all this has developed in transport, road safety? It shall apply. Where does it apply? Mr Karamanlis asked us: 'What are the practices? These are your creations, of Spirtzi." First of all, let us say that it is not wrong to have as a country the first, because the taxi law we have now voted on is now being voted on throughout Europe. However, the specific points which we have been providing for, the coupled driving you have asked us, 'where else is it envisaged in Europe?', I will tell you that it is planned in England for 15 years and nine months, in France, from 16 years to 16 years and think for 15 years, in Germany from 17 years old, in Belgium from 17 years old, in Norway from 16 years old, in Sweden from 16 years old. The New Democracy, however, says: How can you vote at eighteen and drive to seventeen with a date? In the thought of conservative perception, it is directly connected when you vote when you learn to drive. But let's see what's actually going on. We saw it in Messinia too. Young people take the car, secretly many times from their parents and get killed on the street. That's what's happening. We will either give a way out, which we will train and go on the road safely or reproduce what democracy wants, close our eyes to everything. Next. "The law is inapplicable." All right, we'll do the electronic system by October when elections are held. "Speak" for over seventy-four years. We voted before, at Law 4530, it's not a matter of today's draft law, but should I ask you a question: is that where you close your eyes? And that's where you can't see that it can't be done for people who have serious illnesses, with two doctors' certificates provided by the driver's schools to the service? Don't you see there's a problem, and we have accidents? Ask the Train for the percentages of our ultra-aged fellow citizens. Shouldn't we anticipate something? He's right about the JRC, which says they had to go through public hospitals and specialist neurologists, etc. You're right. I want to be honest, we do not currently have the possibility for all the candidates to pass it through public hospitals. It was done through private doctors' certificates and was degenerated in today's process. I want to be honest. I wish we could do what you say. We're told other than that. We had the examiners hostage, because we didn't pay them. This is the third time that this way out of payment has been given. What else did they tell us? He said Mr Karamanlis for a bus or truck driver that we would oblige him, if he is over seventy-four years old, to give a nine-fold examination. Let me remind you that in Law 4530 on buses we've taken the age of sixty, and we're starting before sixty the special exams on these professional drivers. But that's the model that New Democracy wants. We also lived in the European Commission, at the Council of Ministers, by the extreme neoliberals, to have workers' drivers over seventy-four years on the truck. This is the social vision they have, to die there, to kill some more. Their populism is judged by the Greeks. I want to answer a few more things because they told us that we did not consult. Let's go check it out. On 30 April 2018, the Association of Officials of the Ministry, the Federation of Officials of the Special Representatives of Greece, the Federation of Applicants for Applicants of Greece, the Panhellenic Federation of Teaching Driving Teachers, the Association of Professional Directors of Western Attica Cars, the Panhellenic Association of Teaching Guides, the Association of Regions and the Regional Directors, the EESC. On 11 May we held the first meeting with those who say we did not consult. They do not, however, say that their President is a candidate for the New Democracy District Minister, even to see the implications of the New Democracy's attitude on such road safety issues. We are told that it is inappropriate for regional officials. They are currently dealing with driving licences for a thousand and thirty-five employees in the regions, who leave their offices at 12.00 hours. They're not transport managers. They're not, they're generally regional employees. They do not have the driving licences that we predict in the county of at least those they consider. Dissolve the services. What will we have now? Three hundred and fifty full-time jobs. What's the benefit? Answer us. They tell us we're increasing the test. We're not increasing the exams. We are introducing EUR 15, which one third is attributed to the region. And all this and the Ministry, what goes to the Ministry of Finance, is available exclusively for the examinations and road safety actions. Also, for the trails and for road safety actions, Mr Katsotis, I referred to Law 4530. I don't have the note with me, I'll give it to you now that I'm sitting on the bench. To conclude, in the specific issue that we are discussing on driving licences, I would like to say that we will continue to hit the old-fashioned circuits that you have built for decades. We will continue to bring in real estates that Greek society wants. The Greek society does not want to be "wrapped" to get the child a diploma. No one wants to, like, be a good driver, have road safety education. In closing again with the general political, no matter what you do, gentlemen of the New Democracy, I open up and so close my position - the great progressive party again, will defeat your old-fashioned and your partners and the far-right versions of your neoliberalism. You're not gonna make it, you're gonna be permanent in the counter-population benches. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u153	Thank you. I'm going to give Mr. Famello the floor to testify to a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u154	But that's possible! Now the Minister has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u155	He's taking the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the committee that I had submitted our Ministry's proposals, with the relevant article incorporated into the draft law, I had informed you that on the plenary day we will also propose the final date for the completion of the institutional framework of the waste management bodies, so that all operators throughout Greece can make their proposals and decide on the form of waste management bodies. I am obviously bringing this up now, because I have just completed the Ministerial Council, and that is why I was not here earlier. The date was there, but I had to introduce it to you. Therefore, it is simply a modification of the date of 15 February, which we had in the proposal of the draft law, and it is made on 8 March. As you can see, the FEK will not be able to leave to be informed and to submit the final proposal. That's all it is, because by 15 February they wouldn't have made it. I have informed you of this matter in committee. I think it helps all self-government, throughout Greece, to complete the waste management bodies, since the issue of recycling cannot wait, it wants strong bodies, and we are preparing it and we are ensuring it by the legislation of our Ministry. That's all it is, simple date change. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u157	We shall now give the floor to the parliamentary representatives. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Madam President. I can only begin with the intervention of the Minister, what he said earlier. Minister, that's a compliment. It is another thing to bring it in the same day, as you have informed the committee and another to literally bring it to nothing but one, that is, just before the procedure is completed. Just before we begin the vote on the bill, which also contains a practice of misrepresentation - to which I shall refer next - and a series of amendments which have also been tabled at the last minute, you are, literally, coming back to rather than legislate by means of the amendment. And yes, you have mentioned this in committee, but you understand that you could well have brought it from the outset, from the outset, to be aware, that we too can place ourselves on this. You can understand that when you bring it now, literally a few seconds before the Parliamentary Representative of Officerial Representation in Stepa has no opportunity to answer on the substance. And we have said on several occasions in this Chamber that, unfortunately, you are the government, which has the record of poor legislation, if you see the number of amendments, which you are bringing in late and unrelated bills and, of course, if you see the fact that all this legislation is, in fact, a patent, which you bring, while when you were opposition, you said that you would abolish it. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, too, to make a few remarks, because I have heard the Minister speak on top of the news. Unfortunately, in recent weeks, we have been living a picture of decline both within Parliament and outside Parliament. Parliament has had the opportunity to discuss these in the past few weeks. I am not going to mention the gazette phenomena or any other events which unfortunately have taken us far behind. I see, however, in the last few days this decade of dispersal at government level. For example, two leading former ministers - and not random ministers - Mr Kotzias and Mr Kammenos, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of National Defence, are actually intertwining and extorting, the one having some written messages, which say that the Minister of Foreign Affairs was then bribed with about 50 million foreigners in order to pass the deal and the one suing him to be slandered. Of course, all this would not be worth mentioning if they lived inside the country. Unfortunately, the government's deterioration is also damaging the country's image abroad. If you look at the reports of the largest media abroad, you will see very simply that the former Minister of Foreign Affairs and the former Minister of National Defence of Greece - do not care if it is SYRIZA or Independent Greeks - in fact do everything in order to get the image of the country abroad getting worse and worse. And as if not all of this were enough, we had the incident with the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, who we see has an image - to allow me to have a conversation with a country's beginning, such as the central banker, where he said 'if you don't do this to me, I will actually come the next day to impose some things on you in some way, I would say, not so legitimate'. On the other hand, we hear that there may have been illegal recordings, and so on. If we concentrate all this as an overall picture, we will see that, unfortunately, the deterioration and fall of the government - why don't you forget that we are now in an informal election campaign - unfortunately brings the country's overall image abroad and internally. Of course, from all that picture of decline and sepsis, which unfortunately prevails within and outside Parliament in recent weeks, it is the only ones who have won a win is Parliament and democracy. I have said that on several occasions. Sadly, SYRIZA as a government, but also the Congress as a whole and its MPs have a huge responsibility. At least, I expect some of them to stand up and oppose these practices. Because I am sure that even within SYRIZA there are voices, which I do not think are consistent with the spirit and style of the ministers, whom we have seen in recent days and in no way even with the substance of the things and cases that I have mentioned. I have heard the Minister earlier speak of a allegedly progressive front. You have forgotten, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, that unfortunately since you came to power, since SYRIZA was voted as government in 2015, in the last four years, you have done everything to prove that you are older than the old. You are applying the same practices of the past and worse, with the same staff - because, you know, everyone has a personal route in this Chamber and we must not forget it - and you are unfortunately applying the same practices that have actually led us to bankruptcy. Suddenly, SYRIZA remembers the progressive front, while it's a more conservative party than maintenance, I think that's something that outweighs us. It was heard by the Minister again by the well-known, appalling argument that the New Democracy is a neoliberal party and a far-reaching right at the same time. I think that goes beyond the limits of irony. I would remind you once again, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber who were confronted with the Top Right in 2015, in order not to vote for the President of the Republic. SYRIZA, of course. I would remind you who confronted the Top Right in 2015 in the referendum's 'no'. SYRIZA. Who are they to the far right when Mr Kammenos, the Minister for National Defence - if you like - actually invited the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and met on the island of Ro? The only Members present were the Members of SYRIZA, the Members of the Golden Dawn and the Members of the Independent Greeks. I would also remind you who recently voted for Mrs Thanos as President of the Competition Authority, for good reasons. Why, now, is this conspiracy going on? I think it's very easy to see him. But speaking of far right in the New Democracy is beyond logic. I'm coming to the bill. I shall begin with, ladies and gentlemen, with this, which was mentioned by the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Karamanlis earlier. Indeed, the Minister was caught lying, saying that the New Democracy had passed Article 65 of Law 4530. The corresponding attitude of the New Democracy in the bill was put forward in the Minutes. I think that there is no doubt about that. With regard to the bill, the first concern, which should indeed exist, should be that society should be properly restarted in the field of the granting of driving licences, where, under the responsibility of the government, an explosive mixture has been created which leads to social automation. Of course, this social automation has led to the officials, regional examiners, not receiving the wages for recruited services. As much as the Minister does not like, that is the reality. Professional drivers cannot renew or extend the driving licence category and therefore work. Of course, the instructors have come to an economic deadlock, without revenue and at the same time being called upon to be consistent with their tax and other obligations. All this, of course, leads to the fact that ordinary citizens, candidate drivers, are deprived of the right to move on a private vehicle. All these malfunctions, which I have described, must be restored immediately. With this need, and in this light we also consider this draft law. No one, Minister, is at this moment in the Chamber, but it would be good to transfer it to him - he did not say that the New Democracy considers the current situation to be good. We were barely the first to condemn her. We are the first to say that some things need to be improved. But once again, unfortunately, Mr. Spirtz was caught lying. I challenge him to look back and in the Minutes to see that no one from the New Democracy said the current situation was right. Of course, the current situation must also change, but in a proper way, in a practical way, so that all these accusations I have described before you can do their job properly. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it does not have to be a legal person to understand that this legislation is, as a whole, made up of twenty-five articles, but at the same time, it also provides for the extradition of twenty-seven different secondary legislation. If one counts, one will see that there are twenty-seven predictions, with regard to presidential decrees, ministerial decisions, joint ministerial decisions. In no case, of course, can anyone claim to be an example of good legislation. In any case, a bill which, along with the incorporation of fifteen amendments, has thirty-eight articles, you understand that it is a bill, which half refers to this issue and half to the other side is a scaling-up of unrelated amendments, which we have now put into a common legislation. Of course, this is not the case automatically. Mr Katsaniotis, our rapporteur, also pointed out, in detail, that this bill is a bit out of touch. We fear that if one combines as I have told you and the large number of secondary legislation or acts that are required, one understands that in practice this bill is inappropriate. I shall be very brief on the amendments, starting with the general number 1949 and the specific number 50 of the Ministry of Rural Development, which is incorporated into Article 32. This amendment gives the possibility of another two years of extension for the preparation, submission and approval of management plans for grazing land. And of course, we must not forget here, because we are not legislating in any vacuum, that the Ministry of Rural Development had already given a two-year extension in 2015. Since 2015, of course, Minister, we went to 2017, we go to 2019 and now we go to 2021. This is the government's practice. In 2015 you yourself said for a two-year extension and now it has been almost six years, four that have already passed and two others that you are giving an extension. You are judged of this inability and not of any theoretical design. I think there is no doubt that this is a shame on the way the government is legislating, because in this way you are also seducting the final rights of Greek farmers for the next CFP of 2021-2027. So you are doing so at a time when we are now in the final straightforward track of the negotiations, which these debates are facing our country, on the one hand, by reducing the upcoming Community budget and, on the other hand, by the pressures known at times for an absolute equalisation of structural aid, so-called external convergence, which poses a direct threat to the interests of the producers of the country. We must therefore be told by the relevant Minister for Rural Development how many millions of eligible pastures are coming with the new CAP. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2014 the Government of New Democracy at the time with Law 4264/2014 achieved a huge national negotiating success, which, through this law and the prior negotiation, had multiplied all the eligible areas of our country, which has helped to uninterrupted the flow of subsidies over the coming years. Until today, the subsidies received by our country's farmers and farmers are a success of the then coexistence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President, in a minute. Of course, following this huge success, we are reaching a point that extends the extension, at the moment while the negotiations are open, in fact no response is given to this great burning issue. I come to topology with a general number of 1945 and a special 46, which was incorporated into Articles 25 and 26 of the Ministry of Education. I would like to make a comment on the issue of lawsuits in the Merchant Navy with pan-Hellenics from 2020 and 2021. This is practically the case, Mr Ministers, that 25% of the introduction into the AAR is abolished with the marine pre-service molecules criterion. In fact, I am given the opportunity to say here that this decision by the Ministry is unjustified by unambiguous candidates from the naval high schools who have already opted for the naval profession and have already been tested in the difficult conditions of the maritime service, and at the same time it detracts from the institution of the maritime high school, which, together with the navigation service, ensured a sustainable professional way out for many young people in our country. As regards Amendment No 1948, and a special 49, we shall vote 'at present', because we disagree with paragraph 1, and we agree with paragraphs 2 and 3. If you are going to break it, then our placement will be appropriate, that is to say, positive as regards paragraphs 2 and 3 and negative as regards paragraph 1. In Amendment No 1946 and in Amendment No 47 we are positive about the establishment plan of the General Hospital of Agios Andreas, that is to say Article 27 of the Legislation. Indeed, on this issue, Mr Katsaniotis and many other colleagues have from time to time asked the Minister too many times, without, of course, receiving a specific answer. In Article 28, which is incorporated into the bill, the New Democracy will be negative. For the amendment with a general number of 1952 and a special 52, which was incorporated into Article 35, we will be negative. And our view is that it turns out that Law 4555/2018 was both incomplete and inappropriate and this is evidenced by the fact that you are bringing this amendment in order to proceed with the implementation of this law. Our position is clear. What is needed is a review of the institutional framework for the functioning of the FODs and not of the emblematic type of amendments and regulations that you are bringing from time to time in order to implement this law. At some point, even this very serious issue concerning the whole of Greek society, the municipalities of the country, needs to be addressed as a whole and not in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and three teachers attending from the 1st High Xanthi (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] There is not much Members' participation but I would like to inform you that these procedures are carried out through representatives of the parties. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Madam President. I have listened with caution to colleagues from the Opposition, both the major and the minor, and I would like to make a few comments and not even answers to their comments, their comments, their speeches on the general political climate, because we have a tendency to abuse characterisations and it is easy to talk about declines in issues and issues. On the occasion of the so-called loan of Paul Paul Paul Polakis and the political dialogue, which has finally been divided between the Minister and the Governor of the Bank of Greece, what we can say is that this dialogue - if it contains something criminality will be judged by the judiciary - contains a political substance, contains what has been sealed in many years and has been sealing the thoughts of the Greek citizens in the years of bankruptcy and before it. So I see that we are easily surpassing or swallowing the gala of the huge 'SIEMENS' scandal, swallowing the long day of Mr Christoforikos in Munich, who is protected as a German citizen, the fine holiday that Mr Karavelas is taking in Montevideo or Buenos Aires, leaves us icyly indifferent to the complaint of Tsukatos, because he says he is accused and guilty of poetry, but people do not think politically in terms of procedurality, he thinks in terms of a tragic truth. Tsukatos has been cannibalized, it has been thrown up like a squeeze of lemon buttons in the garbage cane, it speaks of a flow of many millions of euros or billion drachmas through the political system, and these are heard by our fellow citizens, and they form political behaviour, not only by judging the parties of the democratic arch, but also by judging the Greek state, the Greek democratic state, the Greek democracy. But these are the camel we swallow. What we can do and do in very dramatic ways is whether a Greek 50-year-old has a moral right on a professional route and now in a political capacity to get a loan. This example of giving the Greek citizens, of swallowing all the structural political and productive reasons, which led Greece to the overcharge, to the shipwreck of bankruptcy and to the great historical adventure that we are still living in, not to talk about the rescue and uprooting operation conducted in the country and the fruits of this uproot are not about the partisan benefit of SYRIZA, but about the lives of ten million Greeks, all Greek citizens, and to remain in remorse. We must also swallow the methods of these "killing characters". Do we need to remember who had undertaken in the 1990s to kill Kostas Laliotis? Psmiadis and the newspaper 'NOOMA'. Remember which newspaper was mixed - I say it elegantly - behind Christos Zachopoulou's suicide attempt? It is the same newspaper that now "kills" one - the characters of various leading SYRIZA executives. All manners, all styles, all stories exist in the very closest past and those of us who have a greater political and public life than the shortness of one parliamentary term are obliged to remember and are obliged to talk to the trustees who bring us here. He said, Mr Kefaliannis, in an elegant way - I do not know if he has investigated it, I heard it from another colleague in this public space called the TV panel - that Mrs Thanos was elected President of the Competition Committee with the votes of the Golden Dawn. No falseer. You hide the truth. Partial truth is a lie, it's a construction of false news. Mrs Thanos did not need the votes of the Golden Dawn to be elected. He was elected without those votes. If you want to change the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, change the laws and cancel the votes of the neo-nazis automatically with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u161	I said for complicity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u162	There's no conspiracy. That's slandering now. It's not counterfeiting and hiding. There's no coincidence. The left historically, structurally and every day, gives the struggles against the right-wing necklace, against the darkness that neonazis and every extreme nationalist, liar and racist, anti-human and misanthropist defenders. We are at the front line of the race historically and today, in 2019. Let them be, then, because sharing, hiding and building is a serious lie and slander. But let's get out of the remorse of the opposition. It may also be its role, instead of criticising, to imitate. That's her limit. These are her possibilities. I would like to address the Members who can hear a few things and the Greek citizens who are listening to us. What is Greece's agenda in February 2019? It finds us with a third year, according to the figures in the 'ERGANIS', to be introduced every year by ten to thirty thousand workers at work by the nightmare of unemployment - I am talking about full-time jobs - with the hours guaranteed, under collective agreements, which have been restored. Economic leaves and financial sites, which are technically and neutrally present as far as possible, show an improvement in indicators and industry and demand in retail and export markets. In the major social fields, which concern our fellow citizens, no one can question that they have been introduced into social security for about one and a half million uninsured people, who can enjoy basic care and medical care, that in the prosequential system major steps have been taken, at least by giving the feeling that even in the distribution of this poor coral of the Greek state there is justice, there is a sense of equality, there is a concern for the impossible. Small and medium-sized enterprises are taking steps. New financial instruments have been created with these poor instruments, which have been provided by the bankrupt financial country and the controlled financial country, new financial instruments, facilitated by the hundred and twenty instalments to cover insurance contributions, debts to the insurance funds. As far as the establishment of a modern state, from infrastructure to the environment, to forest maps, to industrial and craft parks is concerned, there is a great deal of work to be done, in many missing persons, because the subjective weaknesses are not constantly communicated, but also because the agenda and news reports are dominated by terrorism, unpleasant and dispersed panic, confusion and dangers. And so a false image is formed, which is reversed when the Greek citizen feels the improvements in his life, the improvements in everyday life, the reliefs even. It also feels that there is a government that - with mistakes to recognise it, with great vigilance to recognise it, but with solid will and firm line - is struggling for equality, social justice and with constant care for the weak, with constant care for the man of labour, work and production, with constant care for the establishment and consolidation of democratic institutions. The day before yesterday, we had a good news for people living next to us, in the next house, to see again how to restore widow's pensions. Nobody's talking about it. Everyone is concerned about whether there was a tape recorder or whether he's a dude or whether he's a bad guy. It's not the Greece that we deserve. This is not the public debate we deserve. It's not the facebook thing we deserve. We deserve other things more serious, more institutionally, more optimisticly, more teaching and more pedagogical for the citizens who are watching us. I'll finish with an attack and a wish for the years to come. The work launched by the Left Government, which has put its body back on democracy, the consolidation of institutions and the rescue of society, must go ahead, not only because it is the only living force with populism, with efficiency, with a sense of modern times of revitalising the economy, for new optimism in society, but also for the renovation of the institutions as well. We are constantly being told - and with this I am closing down - that in particular, some people who have never liked the Left, but have not understood what they are saying, that we should be at the corner of quiet children and only honour a glorious past. Oh, no! The Greek people have decided for several years, at least since 2012, to place the Left at the centre, to instruct them to lead the country from the deep political and cultural and social crisis in which Greece entered and to re-appoint it from 2012, twice in 2015 and again - I hope - in 2019 so that we can get out in a new historic era, in a second post-Civilisation, in a renewal of the third Hellenic Republic. All Migration is sealed by the progressive majority, and that time again has much more. The extreme right is growing in Europe. People are disappointed. It is easy to turn their heads to listen to those who paint existent and nonexistent enemies, those who paint as an enemy of a united Europe, those who name as an enemy of the Hebrew, the arrogant, Soros, the fairy tales. The Left is here to walk the path of rationalization, preparedness and social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u163	Mr Kegeroglu, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u164	I'm adaming in Stepma a right-wing business sponsor. And I'm explaining. Just a few seconds ago, Mr. Xydakis said that Transmigration is sealed by the progressive majority, meaning at political level, and this in conjunction with Alexis Tsipras's phrase, since he took over power, that Transmigration destroyed Greece, gives the unambiguous argument to the Right that the progressive majority of Postmulsion destroyed Greece. Aren't you ashamed? You said fat lies here, fatter than I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u165	Are you addressing me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u166	To you. Didn't you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u167	Be ashamed of the way you speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u168	Be ashamed, sir, donor of the Right. And you'll be sitting here listening so you don't bother the minister, who has to listen to what I'm about to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u169	Tension doesn't help. Objections help. Talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Kegeroglu has no arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u171	It is very right to comment on Mr Xydakis, who is harassing the Minister, who accepts harassment. But it's none of my business, 'cause it can even put them out of one ear and take them out of the other. So Mr Xydakis' lies and in relation to unemployment, when OAED himself made public that registered unemployment was a million hundred and sixty thousand in January, when the "ERGANI" shows a reduction in private sector incomes, when one position becomes two for allegedly reducing unemployment, all these accounts, do not fool the world. These are in virtual reality yours. The people are experiencing other things. Entrepreneurs experience overtaxation. The unemployed experience closed doors both in the public and private sectors. The reduced pensions, issued by Katrugalou law since May 2016, are not of the bad past, the bad parties, the old political system. The Katorugalo Law and SYRIZA is an achievement, as is the law of injustice, the irreversible law on widows and widows. So here we have to talk about reality. Of course, what I said, starting for the "right-wing donor" is true, when at this time Mr. Tsipras is allegedly speaking on the basis of the old, which must change and come something new, he has gathered from the right and the left what is before and what actually marks false situations in the country. I'm referring, and I'm explaining. He took all the ANEL MPs, those who if you ask the whole society, where are they placed? To the people's right? Extremely right they say, since they compete in the votes with the Golden Dawn. They say extreme right. And you put it in your heart. Who's the people's right? Papakosta? The 2004-2009 expressor, the disaster, the derailment of the country? And you're not ashamed to sit next to the seats? Aren't you ashamed? Is it, then, a progressive front, which will take advantage of what Greece has achieved, particularly from the policies of PASOK and Andreas Papandreou and will change the bad texts or is it a group, a structure that only wants to achieve as a prestige? Turns out it's the second one. Because even in national matters with very convenientness and slavery he signed everything just to keep it from bothering. Imagine the prize that he took yesterday in Munich, Bavaria, Samaras, Venizelos, Papandreou. Even Pinochett you've told Papandreou. At least don't you, Mr. Spirtzi, tell Tsipras that he was stupid enough to call him Pinochet? Don't you have him say it? Or do you believe it? And if you still believe that, how do you have Pinochet's State Secretary? He had said the government of Papademos a rag. "He is a raven," he says, "the government of Papademos". And he has the Deputy Minister of Papademos. It's part of the rag. Shouldn't you have him say sometimes that, well, we said a word more that didn't work out? He didn't say one, he said too much, but at least that. You have a huge responsibility, Mr Spirtzi, because you are giving this government an alibi. Of course, I will not deal with people who, in my view, have chosen to go. Because I have made political criticism to you and I think you have expressed your political disagreement, regardless of whether I agree with you, and you have made your choice. The others had not only expressed disagreement, but it was also on the frontline of Tsipra's complaint. They don't deserve it. You can pass it on to them, because I have spoken and wanted to contact them by Monday afternoon, hoping that there will be no instruments of a system - not instruments of Mr Tsipras, but of a more general system - which wants to dismantle politics and parties, not to strengthen Mr Tsipras. It's temporary, two months, three months, eight months if you want until October. He wants to dismantle the political parties and have a parliament alone. Mr. Kotzias had announced it. Mr. Kotzias, what did he say? But there's the House. There is no need for majorities, minority groups, parties. There's the House. We'll bring it to the House and all the Members who want to vote. Pope the parties. It is the new situation that promotes strong economic interests across Europe and here. Mr Tsipras is a body for the time being, and he is doing so. Before I came to the issues, I would say that what I said before is the rule. This government every day impoverishes the small and medium-sized ones and tells them, it doesn't matter, come on, and I will put you in the poverty trap, the poverty benefit. That is the policy, the big policy, the big policy, which has nothing to do with progressiveity. It is a deeply conservative system, which wants to exploit politically weak people. Because that's the rule, there's where and where no good news confirming the rule. And the good news, Mr Minister, is that you will be going to Heraklion tomorrow - the good news confirms the rule for the bad news - to sign the Convention on Crete's new international airport in Castelli, which I have the honour of being from this particular municipality. It is a project that the PASOK envisioned, passed by a thousand waves, because it did not begin to be designed in a smooth way, because another solution had been launched. Grow up. He also had the bad luck falling through the time of the crisis. Let us take this into account. One way or another after replying invitations improved the terms. The differentiation in the technical field has also been made. And we're on the positive end of signing the contract. I would like to point out that I do not know the convention, its content. I note the fact that I do not know the contract. However, this must be judged on the basis of a basic criterion, if it ensures the interests of the public, the benefit of local society and the potential for people in the region to work, to find jobs. I think that should be included. During the previous period we discussed the international airport "Eleftherios Venizelos" and had this positive perspective. Unfortunately, it has not been exploited to the end. But there was the beginning. I hope to see it in the contract for the new international airport of Crete. Two topics still exist: environmental damage and damage to specific settlements around the airport, and fair compensation for people must be treated. So, by mentioning this positive one, I should like to go into the matter and say that the Ministry really followed a political incomprehensible policy on the issue that we are discussing, testing and testing for candidate drivers. As of 2015, a law was passed, which effectively prohibited out-of-hour examinations. With everything that has been followed, the public examination procedure has been discredited. The professional activity of driving schools has been undermined and citizens, who continue to suffer, whether they are unemployed who want to find a job, whether they are workers who want to improve and renew their diploma, or individuals who want to obtain the driving licence. The Democratic Reconciliation has identified this inaction in good time and has made concrete proposals. It has given solutions both to increasing transparency and to address the problem of conducting the examinations. We have tabled amendments, but they have not been accepted. All the extensions made by various laws and various amendments have been made. And I think that's not just a coincidence. Now, when you say about the past - and it is worth talking about the past to correct it - it has been yours for four years. That's something you need to see. We therefore have an established approach, which leads to a situation that needs to be addressed immediately. However, with the bill you have brought, I do not see it being of direct application or being able to implement it. Already a lot of people are suffering. You have invoked irregular, illegal-procedures. This should keep you alert. That should put two feet on a shoe and bring the bill earlier. Instead, you've done four years. I have to say that the bill under discussion has issues that we need to discuss. I will focus on the recording of procedures for increasing transparency, the creation of the supervisory mechanism, the continuation of examinations by regional officials, the rights of citizens, teachers and officials. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little more time, Madam President. The recording of all examination and testing procedures of candidate drivers may, if appropriate, enhance transparency and also ensure the rights of the examiner, examiner and instructor. That is why we have said that we are in agreement with the principle of a bill containing issues that must and can be implemented, to have more transparency, to strengthen the clean procedures. After all, there have been work done by the Ministry's services for many years that went through a thousand waves. Some have been implemented, others have not been implemented. Now we see another chance lost. The uninterrupted and continuous transmission in real time of the test - the recording we say - must be done, but it has problems. I will explain to you in a few words why it cannot be applied in this way, in our view, and there is absolutely no need to change and be implemented through the USB. What's the checkpoint? It's unknown. Will he monitor a hundred and more procedures that will be done at the same time? Is there any way around here - I'm not telling the Minister - to give the play? Because he's a well-known public man. It gives when - when transport with private buses, buses, etc., but these are the ones that confirm the rule that he is a public perpetrator. Do you want to put private auditors, you supposed defenders? Oh, no. So our proposal for direct application is the USB, which I told you, and I think that his direct mission to the control centre will ensure that we are recorded, namely that there is a written procedure to ensure that the interests of any objection or whatever is done are safeguarded. Here's a problem. If for any reason the Ministry's automobile connection is interrupted - and there are many reasons that can be done - the applicant is punished by cancelling the examination, regardless of the result - if it has passed, i.e. it is punished - without any responsibility for the technical damage and the instructor is punished by lifting the licence from two to six years. This is a setback, it will depreciate the process. It reminds me of an ad that he's been on both television and radio lately. Restaurant clerk asks what customers will get. They say the customers: "We'll get a wine from Crete". He says: 'I propose to you a wine from Nemea'. Rejecting customers and explaining them: "Because you will have to go to Nemea to get the password." That reminds me. They are far too far away from what you say about real life. You therefore claim that the camera's placement in the exams is done to combat corruption. Question One: In the theoretical examination, why is there no recording camera?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u172	There is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u173	There's no theory. It can be electronic, but it doesn't exist. Question 2, why don't you put cameras on the seventy-four-four years-olds exams and leave them to the mercy of corruption, according to your view? Why? Question 3: Let us take an example. For any reason of a critical situation when examining the road, the examiner considers that for security reasons the pedals must be pressed and the candidate cut. The candidate, who knows that he is being recorded, turns to the camera and says, "Would you cut me off, why didn't I give you the 100 euros you asked me?" Well, gentlemen, you need to change three - four things so that the system doesn't come back. You denounce the doctors and transfer someone else's authority. Listen to the data: From 2014 to 2016 they passed from the secondary committee in Crete to a thousand seventy-three and two hundred-four cuts, which is about 20%. From November 2016 until today, do you know how many people have been cut off with the new system you have put in? Only four in two and a half years. What does that mean? That the second system is getting better. What could you do? Restore secondary committees and instead of putting private doctors in, put doctors from hospitals. All of them. And now it's from the hospitals, but not all of them. This simple change, make it to meet the demands you made from the galantomus previously to the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u174	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u175	Now the examiners - apart from the issues that have so far had economics and others - have issues and are fighting for their safety. They cannot enter a car that has not been found to be one’s ability and be at the mercy of the seventy - four - or eight - or eight - year - old or any one. These are serious issues. The instructors cannot be denounced by the educational tool that is their car. The bill cannot be implemented and I am reading to you a dialogue after protests: 'We have no money for tickets or for nothing'. Now listen, Mr. Spirtzi, it's interesting. Says Mr. Vardakis, MP of SYRIZA: “You are right. I cannot apologise on behalf of the Minister." "We've reached our limits," they say "we don't have to pay our rents" etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u176	Who's saying that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u177	The examiners and the instructors. And Mr Vardakis says: “I am ashamed of what is going on. Mr Spirtzis and we as a government are responsible. The bill, as I read it, cannot be applied in either one or two years. That's what Mr. Vardakis said. I am tabling this debate on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents, for the record, the previous dialogue, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, Mr. Vardakis, in his public speech, and when he met with people down, he took care of that honour for your bill. It did not react today, of course, because I saw an amendment that you accepted, with many, many recruitments. I didn't study her to see whether or not it should be done. Perhaps the rapporteur has studied it. I'll see her. But I saw how Bardakis signed for Athens and Thessaloniki, who is MP Heraklion! What's going on here? What are you doing? Bottles? Alchemys? What are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u178	Mr Kegeroglu, please have exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u179	I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you for your tolerance. Besides, I didn't take any time for anything else. I didn't use the option. Let me say again that we are in favour of the principle of transparency, in favour of putting everything in place to ensure that there is credibility in this direction. When you were gone, I said that four years you were indifferent, and he's a suspect. Examiners wonder if what is rumoured to be the case, you said to a particular social group, that in addition to the private auditors at the audit centre, you will give the project with blockages to private individuals, if you do not bring employees from the regions, to go to compulsory work, to the sole work of the examiner. That was a right and you make it an obligation. As far as I am concerned, you cannot say 'only morning'. It must also be done this afternoon for workers in particular in the private sector, who are not entitled to leave their jobs to go to test and lose their share. Let us make an amendment - now, we can - to this bill by employees and by the private sector be entitled to two days' leave for the issue or renewal of a diploma, without cutting them off.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Kegeroglu, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u181	The examinations must be carried out in the afternoon and the theoreticals and others must once, say, once a month, to serve the workers who work in the morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Madam President. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman here heard the results of the government's work and, of course, described it as positive, and even referred to some indicators of the economy, unemployment and so on. No one can deny this willingness that SYRIZA has shown over the last few years to implement the claims of business groups, the directions of the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the total capital. It seems that the sign is positive and of course it is for them, it is for business groups. The maintenance and expansion of the memorandum of anti-grass laws, the service of the American-Democratic designs in the region, the establishment of the urban political system is what has been served by the previous ones, it is what is currently served by you, but what will also be served by the next ones who will come after the elections. We must say that you cannot convince anyone with all this account you are doing, that the position of workers has changed and improved. The position of the workers and the populace has become worse. This is a reality that our people live in and you cannot tell him that black is white. That is one issue, namely unemployment. With an hour's work, the worker is now considered to be a worker and not an unemployed person. This is a reality that these thousands of workers who work part-time, who work in such flexible forms as they do not allow them to meet the basic needs for their living. What is being implemented over all these years, and in particular through the implementation of all the memoranda - and the third - is the least. Minimum remuneration, minimum income, minimum social security rights, minimum education and health benefits. In these few cases you want to keep the world and the people. So you cannot get on with this minimum policy, for this policy that keeps the world very low, which you tell him that the cubit must be there and not go up, that their demands for what they are entitled to go up, for the life they have to live. That is what you have legislated for the past time, and that is what you want to constitutionalize. That is the proposal you have made for the revision of the Constitution. So the abolition of the rights which have taken place through very hard struggles with blood is also your job. Remember the strike thing? The new obstacles you've put in for this? Remember the recent abolition of collective bargaining for lower wages? Remember the Katorugalou law, which has leveled pensions and insurance rights of workers and pensioners? What should we want to do first? So you can't be here on this project, which you say your government has done. On the draft law, our rapporteur has substantiated our position. Our claims that the abstention cannot be broken are based, on the one hand, on the overall functioning of this socio-economic system and, on the other, on the licensing system, which, despite any improvements, support for the privatised system is, as our rapporteur said in his first speech, the objective basis of opacity, corruption, this sepsis that dominates this mechanism. Our position that this system should be purely public in order to ensure all those conditions for unimpaired procedures, for safe driving beyond, in order to reduce traffic accidents and accidents - you have rejected it. These arrangements will not deal with corruption. You have rejected our position and this regulation you are bringing is in the same direction of perpetuating this problem. It is well known that there have been numerous discussions in the Committee on Road Safety on the causes of road accidents and accidents. The evidence of deaths and injuries is the undisputed witness to the problem, which indeed needs a measure. Traffic treatment for road safety is conditional on road behaviour changing and contributing to road safety. Integration of traffic education into the educational system can prepare candidate drivers with improved road behaviour and reduce accidents, increase road safety. Even this system of examination of candidate drivers, in which we disagree, says that it cannot solve the issue. We therefore insist on this system which we propose, namely the public system for the granting of driving licences. The causes of accidents, of course, are more. It is particularly issues concerning the road network, which, although it has improved, also has significant problems with bad crafts, a lack of repairs with consequences for road safety and the many accidents that we see every day. Another reason, which does not appear by anyone other than the JRC, is the situation faced by professional drivers, with a great intensification of their work and endless driving hours. These are issues that are not touched either by the code when this bill or its amendment was being discussed, but not today. We therefore consider the need for changes in the system to ensure transparency, proper implementation of the examination work and its contribution to road safety. The services are subordinated, however, and this strengthens opacity. This can't be handled. It is well known that the regions have a reduced staff of 50%. They say 40 percent of course, but they're in that context. You say that once the examiners leave their services, as soon as their service is cleared, a great deal of work is left to the public anyway. You do not, however, manage these services which are in the driving mechanism with the relevant staff, with the appropriate qualifications, so that they can indeed be dealt with in this system, as we say, transparency. The Ministry of Transport, as we have said in committee, has shown an incomprehensible attitude during the previous period. It caused the abstention of the examiners, left the examiners unpaid for a long time, thus having serious implications for trainers, driver schools, to the employees. We have proposed that the committees take steps to extend all these obligations to the insurance funds, VAT, etc., to facilitate all these self-employed persons. The Ministry of Transport, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, could accept the demands of the self-employed, the driver schools and be able to be facilitated. Because it is well known that the abstention was a long-term one and there was no revenue during the entire period when the trainers were out of work. The draft law, with Articles 4 and 10, obliges the training vehicles used for the examination of candidate drivers to have an online link to the Ministry's control centre and in vehicles to have a microphone. However, these costs will be borne by the instructors themselves. Not covered by the Ministry. There is, in other words, no arrangement where driver school is subsidised, so that it can convert the cars it uses, make connections and put the cameras in. It is a great cost and, of course, the government is also charging this to the professionals of drivers' schools. We must say that in renewing the seventy-four-four years' driving licence, we have said a lot. The Minister says that it is not ready for the public system to be able to raise this burden of many seventy-four years, for which the renewal of their diploma is required. We agree, of course, that there cannot be a professional of seventy-four years. We agree that these professionals should have a much lower age limit than everyone else's, because one cannot have the same reflective and drive so many hours. So, what has been heavy before in 58 drivers, we say, needs to come back, but in any case, we believe that there can be no profession of 74 years. But it has IX. He hasn't forgotten to drive like we said. We believe that these proposals - which have been referred to by everyone, Minister - should be seen. You can't trouble this world. Reexamination at such age, in this whole context, is a very difficult case for those who are at this age limit. It is difficult, far more difficult than what we say to go to hospitals, to find those certificates that they are capable, that they have reflexes, that they have no Alzheimer's, that they have no other problems, and so they can continue to drive. Otherwise, we say you're putting them on an adventure and know that all these ages will turn against you for this arrangement that you're going through today. We insist that you can take this out of the article today and reinstate it by means of this regulation that we say, ensuring that other structures - TOMY, PES, etc. can also be found in public hospitals. - to give certificates corresponding to them or doctors with the corresponding qualifications. Before I refer to the amendments tabled, Mr Minister, I will say that in Article 2 the officials of the Ministry of Transport are turned into evaluators. That's clean in the draft law. Their examiners are taking them to other regions. You create a body with three hundred fifty and the rest go to other regions for other tasks. But with this body which we have mentioned and which we have already mentioned, there will be serious problems. They're in the districts. They will provide their work exclusively in their hours, too. They will leave the services at 12 o'clock, as you said, or in the morning to offer the examination services. Won't that be a problem with the services?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u184	Oh, no. That's all they'll do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u185	Okay. However, there are other views of the federation of officials that the problem is not tackled and that other workers are now required to be recruited, because they also have many shortcomings in this area. Article 5 also sets out the terms and conditions for transmission, recording and the technical specifications of audiovisual media. That's well known. Now we got an email from the Privacy Authority. You got it, too, I guess. It is a memorandum which says that they disagree with this article and say that it cannot apply, for example, audiovisual material to the theoretical examination. There are other ways. That's what the Privacy Authority says. It also has a number of other reservations about other paragraphs of Article 8 and Article 5 and, of course, about audiovisual media, which you are putting into operation. I now move on to the amendments. On the amendment to grazing plans, our rapporteur said that we are radically opposed. This makes it even more important for farmers, and we believe that the government is badly bringing this about, especially at this time when the farmers have already suffered great consequences from the CAP, as has been said, but also from the inconsistency of the trade-industrialists, which has led to the price of sheep falling under the eighty-minute period, perhaps even in the seventies. So the fact that they are now being called upon to have and the ending of the use of pastures is another piece of joy that they can't pick up. As far as the amendment to the FVO amendment is concerned, we have also radically disagreed with the draft law. We also disagree with the amendment which, in any case, comes to specialize in some of its aspects. For the amendment concerning the Civil Protection Authority, as you say, we are voting 'no' because, apart from other issues, Minister, this issue comes from the professional fund that we fundamentally disagree. It's a capitalisation system. It's something that doesn't benefit the workers. Of course, it is a policy of the SYRIZA Government to support professional funds. This is what you have done on the medicine, and as a result, the officials who have been pharmaceuticals to see pensionable earnings or the single 50% to 60% downwards, and this is also the case with the professional fund that is currently in place for the majority of GFCM...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u186	Finish, Mr. Katatotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u187	I shall end with that, Madam President. The majority of GSE enters front to make a national professional fund so that the employee can pay and never know what will get back and of course this whole system will strengthen private insurance and abolish social security rights. We therefore disagree with this amendment. We also disagree with the last amendment, in 1967/55, which has a refreshment issue that you are saying, funding. We disagree with that. The other for towing, etc. It is a matter that we obviously did not know - we are saying it clearly - but it is now, at the last minute and we cannot have an update. What's this about? First of all, there was a difficulty from you to see what this is. I guess they brought it to the services. It's a request, but what's coming to deal with, what's coming to solve? We have not seen any arguments from you about the need to vote on this first part. After all, we insist on our position on'residences' in the draft law and then our rapporteur will refer to the articles one by one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u188	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-one students and students and two teachers from the General High School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u189	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Shahinides, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u191	I would like the floor for two minutes to ask the Minister something after his position and the last amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u192	After the Minister speaks?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u193	He spoke for twenty minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u194	There's more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u195	Let me ask him to answer when he talks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u196	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Madam President. On Amendment No 1969/57, which has just been tabled to us, Minister, I would like to say that it has five articles, of which at least four, from what I have just seen, we should also be able to discuss them with the institutions so that we can have a perception. In particular, the third article, which allows local authorities for the transport project, is an opportunity for us to come, but not in this way. About the placement you've made, I have two questions for you. One concerns the part you mentioned and said that there would be a funding from the European Bank of 500,000, 000 for roads that have been mentioned as requiring intervention. Is this also about the regional road in Thessaloniki, which has a multitude of mistreated craftsmen - if you don't know it - and every time it rains, it is said that there will be a carambola? Just let us know if this piece of Thessaloniki is involved. I also expect you to reply to something else, Minister, and I think you have made a mistake. In order to highlight a scandal - and you have rightly done - in the days of the New Democracy, you have referred to the scandal - quite rightly, but you have forgotten that the presumption of innocence was just passed yesterday. It was very right that you were not referring to names, but it was your fault that you allowed the parliamentary representatives of the parties to have access to and see a case-file which, as you said, is in progress and is in the prosecutor's office. I think that was a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u198	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Karastasis, what do you want? Before the Minister closes you want to ask something, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u200	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u201	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to make a reference to the amendment I have tabled, in order to be able to substantiate it, regarding the extension of a period for maintenance work on the new Lamia-Athens-Thessaloniki highway in the area of Agios Konstantinos and in the area of the national road in Mytilini to the airport. The irrationality that exists is known. Projects that have been executed since 1960 also operate as national roads, when some maintenances are needed, cannot be maintained due to problems arising from the definition and definition of the saint and the beach. They cannot be maintained and let them be very important and nationally important. In this sense, therefore, the proposal we are making is - so that we can deal with problems of maintenance and safety for drivers in these regions alone - for these two projects which are national roads to establish the possibility of legalising these projects by 31/12-2019. I wanted to take this opportunity because it has been very much heard about the issue of driving licences for people over 74 years, I believe that the process that is being followed, creates - anyway - some problems. I think, Minister, that we need to find a solution, one way - a lot of colleagues, rapporteurs, parliamentary representatives - have been mentioned so that they can pass through medical examinations, of course from structures that are public-sector hospitals, whether they are TOMY or anything else. So my assessment is - if possible today - that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, a formula must be found so that it does not give the impression that we leave a population where there really are issues. We know this whole system is perforated. We must therefore find a solution that can cure this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u204	I should like to make these comments, Madam President. In relation to the main body of the bill we are discussing - and I mentioned it to the committee too many times - it seems to me totally unreasonable how to examine 'over 74 years'. Mr. Karastasis from SYRIZA described it in a proper way. It is absurd what is happening. First of all, it is incomprehensible that the secondary medical committee has been abolished. Based on my own information in the Region of Thessaly, when there was the secondary medical committee, it was about 30% cut and now 0% cut. Therefore, for security reasons of the citizen himself, his family, and also of people who come from across a car in order not to jeopardise their lives, we have a duty to ensure, above all, that these people see, have no health problems - for example, to lose the sense of space - and their reflexes can actually function as required by the Treaties. So you need to see it in a very clear and clear way. I have the well-known question, Mr Minister, of the amendments which are'mixed' amendments. They are amendments that you will be given the signature of a Member of Parliament and that you will be able to accept, obviously in order to avoid the report of the General Accounting Office of the State and how much it will cost the Greek State. We have this amendment on recruitment in public transport. Obviously, we all agree that public transport needs recruitment. Recruitment is also required at driver level and at the level of drivers and at technical level. The question is: Why don't you bring in a normal rule of law that tell us how many you'll hire? Here you do not tell us how many you will hire, so that the General Accounting Office of the State can also tell the Greek Parliament that what the Minister for Transport is asking is "so many" recruitments, "too" of people, which will cost the Greek taxpayer "so much". Suddenly, then, we have an amendment that you have accepted - and I repeat, an amendment that you have written to the Ministry - without knowing what specialities we will be hiring neither how personal nor what the needs of each body are. This, Minister, must either stop now or explain exactly what is happening. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. The third point - it concerns all over Greece - is the famous amendment by the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the management plans in pastures. As you in the end accept the amendments, despite the absence of the Minister for Agriculture, I will say the following: This is a scandal. In 2014, the government decided on how to complete, in a short time, the management plans for pastures for the thousands of farmers in the country. Then comes the government SYRIZA and removes the compensation from hundreds of villages in the Greek region. Only in Argolida, in seventeen villages, 1.5 million euros are cut each year by farmers and farmers. Now comes the third one you're bringing us for the livestock farm. You were due as a government to have finished the management plans 31-12-2017. You are taking the first extension - two years - until 31/12-2019 and the Minister is now coming and we are being asked for another two years until 2021. So I ask you: in these four years you are running, what exactly have you done to protect Greek farmers so that the management plans are ready? Because of these things, thousands of farmers live from the pastures. You haven't done anything at all. But you're doing something wicked. You threw them out of the forecast that we had in 2014, that is to say, farmers taking part in their decisions. And now where are we, Madam President? The Minister for Rural Development is coming to us and says: 'I want EUR 20,000 000'. To do what, Minister, we ask him. 'To build management plans'. But how do you know that it takes 20,000,000 euros, when all scientists say it will cost 10,000,000 euros down and when everyone who knows what databases mean, which the Ministry of Rural Development and its other half also has the Ministry of Environment and Energy ready? Why don't you link these databases to 80% of the content of the studies that you're going to assign to individuals? Silent scissors. It's not pssy cox. The worst of all, these EUR 20,000,000 that you will sign, Minister, will be removed from the pockets of the Greek farmers. It is not money that will come from a 'leaf tree'. They will be deducted from the funds of the Greek farmers who received them as compensation. Instead of doing your job properly, instead of - secondly - since it proved to be the inability of your rural development ministers to find money from the Rural Development Programme, you find the easy solution: one more piece at the expense of declining livestock farming. Is it possible with such policies to have a future for this sector of the national economy, which can really give comparative quality and quantity of products so that people can stay in their village? It is clear that this is a scandalous provision which we shall vote against. Finally, Madam President, I would like to see how the draft law on which we have tabled specific objections is finally being formulated and how you will convince us, Mr Minister, that what we have before us is even one of the hundred positive steps that the country must take in order to achieve the final objective, which is the reduction of road traffic accidents and the thousands of our people killed every year on the roads. And what we have in our hands, what we have in our eyes, what you ask us to approve you, does not convince us that we will move in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Katsaniotis has the floor. I put two minutes, you're talking more while you're running out of time. You've spoken for nineteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u206	We had another seven and a half minutes, Madam President. That was agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u207	You have the floor to finish at last.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u208	Madam President, I have said from the outset that this bill is a rough and impracticable one. I am continuing and replying to the Minister, in addition to the fact that there is no report on the cost of the trails, the examiners, nothing, the bill - as the Committee on Personal Data says - was not even sent to the Committee on Personal Data. He never went. The committee itself met yesterday and said that there were a number of problems. But when you want to do a piece of legislation that will really come to solve a problem, you do it prepared, you do it consistently, you do it with advance. This bill had nothing to do with it, I said before, it was specifically intended to cover a mattress of problems. He said here, SYRIZA's colleague, that the transaction is not going to take place in the car. We all say that. So, why would the examiner be outside? Because that's what we want. About the driver schools, you come and blame them for being arrested and you say that all these are corrupted or involved. I'm going on, you don't tell us where to find the money for the runways. You're talking about paradoxes that will be collected to make the regions. About the examiners, you want to make a body of examiners. It's very important. But you are not telling us where you will find the world and where you will find the money and you are not saying that all of this is planned without taking into account what the regional association tells you that they have no employees. It takes four months to get the licenses, they'll do six and eight. No employees, you want to make a system of examiners, you want to train them. You want all this, but you don't tell us how to solve the test problem now. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to what we have lived today, you will allow me to say two - three things about what has been heard, beginning with the Minister and ending in one - two speakers: the Minister said that I said that we do not know if there is any difference in this system. The Minutes say that I said: 'Let us make something clear, neither I nor anyone else in the New Democracy will say that the system is indiscriminate and inconsistent, nor that there is no need for elections'. I don't give it to the Minutes because it's written. So, Mr Spirtzis as Orwell's worthy 'truth Minister' comes and twists what is said once again. And what did he say here? He came to tell us that there are cases of the prosecutor controlled, he listed us areas and also told us that the biggest part checked is the theoretical examinations. I'm asking the Minister to tell me what's changing the theoretical examinations? Changed something and we didn't see it? Nothing has changed, all that has changed is Mr Spirtzi's Prime Minister, then, Mr Reppas, to abolish what Euripides Stylianides had done. That's changed. And let's continue with what Mr. Spirtz always told us from the Minutes. Mr Spirjis told us that there are some issues that create distorting impressions among the citizens. There's been a question if driver's licenses, for those who are over 75, will have insurance cover. He says they will. I personally understand your sensitivity for those who are over 75 to drive abroad, not apparently since they have been extended. Once someone has extended, he can go abroad to a European country as well as everywhere. To be outside Europe, he must have an international driving licence. The papers that complete, those who receive an extension, expressly state that this is granted for a vehicle driving licence only within the Greek territory. Paper says it. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Spirtzis said to us in committee: 'But I will refer to Mr L4550 in March. You voted for this provision. This is tragic.’ Mr. Spirtzi, it turned out that we did not vote for this provision. So what we have to do from now on to get together is do the Minister for Transport and not the 'Truth Minister'. Finally, I should like to say this: I have heard of Mr Ursouzides, a SYRIZA colleague, saying about Mr Tsukatos and showing us. I heard after Mr Xydakis talking about the political dialogue he had with Mr. Paulakis and Mr. Stournaras - we consider 'Let's go outside'! - to say: 'You see Mr. Paulis's loan and you don't see SIEMENS and so Mr. Tsukatos?' And I see in the benched people coming from this place. We shouldn't enter this process, gentlemen, and I'm not one of those who will say that your past was to those who ruled for twenty-five years...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Catsaniotis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u210	Just a minute, Madam President. We are talking about a bill that concerns a lot of people. I'm telling you again and I'm telling you for the last time, people over 75 need only calibration that they have the ability to drive and not tests, not on their own vehicle, not without anyone being able to watch if these tests are diabetics. The system's in theory. People who do not actually certify who is who pass the signals and do nothing about it. There is the framework for us to be able to pressure and try to eliminate corruption. Use it instead of upsetting everything for no reason. You are building another information system that will certainly not be ready by October that you will leave the government, as you say. The sooner you leave, the better, I say. But don't trouble people. You have managed, Minister, a bill that should have the agreement with all the parties involved, the consultation between us, in order to have a lengthy time, to put it into the political controversy process. It doesn't suit anyone that you've forced it to happen, whether deliberately using lies or speaking for forty years, instead of talking about the last day and the last three years that you are. For the last forty years let each of us count what part it has had. Let this story end. Whether we're talking about tomorrow or you're going to be the main vehicle of regression looking for arguments in the past to say you're better than the worst we've ever lived.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u211	All right, Mr. Catsaniotis. Thank you. Mr. Steeriou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u212	Mr Minister, after you have finished your speech and before we started the voting process, you have brought us an amendment number 1969/57, which contains five articles. It is incomprehensible at the moment to sit down and look at this amendment to take a position. In this sense, therefore, we are voting against this amendment because we do not have the time required, but it is also somewhat challenging to table this amendment with five articles in the 'only five' vote. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u213	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u214	What do you want, Mr. Ursuzidis? Personal? Because he mentioned your name?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u215	Wait a minute, Madam President. I have referred to Mr Tsukatos, to say that I am amazed - beyond what Mr Tsukatos said that has surprised all society - your own fish silence on the part of the New Democracy. That's why I mentioned it for no other reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u216	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Caranastasis, did you envy that they spoke so long and want some time or do you want something specific? If you wish, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u218	Madam President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u219	Do you want to talk about a particular matter? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u220	Thank you. Madam President, I think I should respond to two points which have been raised by my colleague in the New Democracy. And I believe that the New Democracy, in fact, has all these days been able to only try to denounce the government for a bill that comes to change issues that are afflicting society, the world for too many years. In fact, what surprised me is that there is not a single proposal in terms of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u221	Let it be secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u222	So I think we should go to another parameter too, because I think our proposal is very substantial. And what has to be done is that there are no misunderstandings about targeting certain specific professional groups during this debate. We believe, therefore, that it is clear that such a regime, a system of issuing licences and renewal which has reached its end, has declined and indeed the results it gives at the moment are contrary to what we want. Because there is also confusion and corruption, I think that this bill is about to deal with problems that no government has managed in previous years to bring to a discussion. I shall now refer to the question of the provision concerning the absence of the trainer in the vehicle. I think that during the examination, which is not related to the possibility of a suspect transaction or anything else, what I mean to say is to create driving conditions similar to those experienced by the new driver after obtaining the driving licence. For us it is clear that a driver should be able to drive himself before starting an examination. And that for what? Because if it is not ready now or immediately thereafter, I believe that the consequences would be too tragic. That is why I believe that the government in its attempt to get through and sense of road safety began from this year on pilot courses in some schools in high school, high school and high school, to introduce the road safety lesson so that we can have those desired results, because as you know road safety is a subject, a process which is built year after year. I therefore believe that this effort, which the government is making at the moment, to be able to vote for a bill - and I think it will go through - is an effort that creates the conditions for us to have zero road accidents in our country and, of course, to hit corruption and conflict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Spirtzis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Madam President. I would first like to clarify a few things, which were obviously not submitted together by mistake, but are some provisions in the amendment which is very - if you like - positive. And one you asked, it's for small municipalities, like the municipality of Poros, there are other areas. If it is not characterised as an urban area, it cannot have a municipal transport. They're the plates, which are the markings, where electric vehicles can be charged. They're provisions like that. I do not think there will be any political problem with these articles. And by listening to the representatives of the Opposition, to show that we do not have any dogmatism at all when positive issues are being proposed, I would like to say to Mr Maniotis that I am tabling a legal improvement in relation to the amendment that you have said. We do not include, we delete the phrase "of the OSCE, OSCE and PSY Group", which said that it is not registered, that we do not have data from the General Accounting Office of the State, that it is a trick. There's no such thing as that. It only remains for OSTH and OSE, for the drivers, who are very intense in the problem. And when, in addition to the OSCE and the OSCE complete the study we have requested, we will have a corresponding amendment to include the critical specialities for the OSCE. There is no question of it. That's the legal improvement. I'm tabling it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u225	The seven months that were trialing, why are they two years?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u226	Because there won't be any professional bus drivers coming for seven months. Nobody.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u227	That's a test.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u228	That's right. Some months it takes only for the test, if you like, to function on these organisms. Then it's not enough for the seven months and the eight months. It's with S.H.I.E.L.D. All procedures are defined and transparent. In what Mr Maniotis and Mr Katsotis of the JRC also said about secondary committees, because today we are not discussing the question of examinations of over seventy-four years, we are discussing the transitional provision for their examinations, and I undertake to work with the Ministry of Health, so that the secondary committees can return and the way you have proposed, and if we are going to change it. The secondary committees were not abolished by us. You all know that. And you know very well and the difficulties that exist. So give us some time to have a consultation, see how the debate and the demands we have from public hospitals and other public health structures will be completed. But the problem is there. Even here, in Parliament, Members from all sides have asked for several times - although the Ministry of Transport is not responsible - not to renew their parental driving licence. You all know that. So we need this distortion with some prediction to deal with it. And it will be good for medical clubs, sometime to face such a kind - if you want - the functioning of their members, Now, the federation of officials who have asked to be recruited by corresponding specialties in the regions is giving the answer. It is not possible for people who have absolutely nothing to do with the subject of road safety, the subject of examinations, to be examiners and to be a party. There is obviously provision here for examinations to be carried out this afternoon, just the people who will be involved in them, will be with the overtime that is expected to be paid. It's not the problem of measure and body, it's economic. We provide money for the existing body of examiners, to make use of them both by the regions and the Ministry of Education, for information on road safety, for pupils, for clubs and for social actors. That's the target. However, we cannot continue to have this function in the services of the regions. The observation you make about the Privacy Authority, all comments have been included in the draft law, with the legislative improvements that have been submitted. So there's no such thing. I want to give an answer to my friend, Vassili Kegeroglou. The country has changed, the memos have been completed. In Europe, far-right and extreme neoliberalism, because of the crisis, has started and risen, as has fascist forces. It is obvious that there is a need for a progressive front and for us to draw some critical conclusions from the years of the crisis. For what Vassilis Kegeroglu said, I want to say something. There was - if he remembers - an elected Prime Minister, led or some led to resignation. And it's never too late. Let KINAAL vote on the constitutional proposal in the revision so that the Prime Minister may also be a member of Parliament. Why does he tell us? Let's vote. It's never too late. Neither SYRIZA nor any of us want to bring back - the upside back - into the dissolution of the parties. He who brings to the dissolution of the parties is the one who even today continues a dance with the New Democracy and the Across Right. Let anyone who wants from the progressive space his responsibilities continue with him. So the call for cooperation between the progressive forces, for programme convergence, for a front against neoliberalism - which you see that even driving licences cannot make a proposal, even for the eyes of the world, to have an alibi - is open. Come to the dialogue to see what points of convergence are. The previous time you criticised us because we were working with the ANELs. Today you have no alibi, Mr. Maniattes. The page has changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u229	You have them without their President before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u230	And we in dialogue, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u231	I'm talking about Mr. Maniots. Your relationship is privileged that you have with the New Democracy and the links you have had and you have with the New Democracy. From General Secretarys of Government to Ministers come from your place. It is therefore open for all democratic and progressive powers to be invited to be converged to become a front against neoliberalism, the extreme right, and for what we must fight together throughout Europe. It would be a good thing - I will say it in a few words - to follow the example of the Socialist and Democratic Party seeking convergences with the Left at European level and not to tamper behind, if you like, allegedly beliefs that you have developed in recent years. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u233	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u234	Now? After the Minister? What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u235	For the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u236	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u237	I would like to say about the amendment, Mr Minister, which you have just tabled and which we had the clarification from you. We do not doubt that there may be positive provisions and things that are in the last minute's amendment. But we are still talking about the unacceptable fact, in the political sense, of tabling it at the last minute. We will abstain from voting on this amendment and because we have not studied it and because there are some issues. You say, for example, about the School of Vocational Training. Who's gonna do this school? You're talking about authorizing to settle matters relating to terms, etc. We have not studied it, so we will abstain. But it is possible - and we say so again - that this amendment also has positive provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u238	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u239	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u240	I apologise to you for being inadvertently filed last minute. It was in the main package, but it went too far.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u241	But you understand our position too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u242	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is adjourned: ‘Testing of qualifications and behaviour of candidates for driving licences and drivers, other provisions on driving licences and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of thirty-seven articles, of six amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. How you vote, Mr. Kourakis will tell you, who comes to the Chair and receives the doggy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, every time on the screen they appear as four articles - as you know - to be voted on. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u244	As long as you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the General School of Kremasti (Second Chamber). [[CHANGING PAGE]] The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u246	The parties' positions, as reflected in the electronic system vote, are as follows: By a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 1 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 2 as amended by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Yes. Article 3 as amended by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 4 as amended by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 5 as amended by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Present. Article 6 shall be by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Present. Article 7 as amended by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 8 as amended by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Present. Article 9 shall act by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Present. Article 10 as amended by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 11 as amended by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 12 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 13, acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. Article 14 as amended by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: No. Article 15 as amended by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 16, acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: No. Article 17 as amended by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 18, acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 19 shall act by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Present. Article 20 as amended by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Present. Article 21 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 22 as amended by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Yes. Article 23 shall be by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 24 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 25 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 26 shall be read by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 27, acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. Article 28 as acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. Article 29 shall act by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 30, acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. Article 31 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Present. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Present. Article 32 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: No. Article 33 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: No. Article 34 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: No. Article 35 as amended by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Yes. Article 36, acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Yes. Article 37 shall apply by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Yes. Ministerial Amendment 1943/45 as a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Ministerial Amendment No 1966/54 is by majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. As a majority, Ministerial Amendment 1967/55. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. Ministerial Amendment 1969/57 as it stands. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Abstention. Centro Association: No. Parliamentary Amendment No 1964/53 is by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Parliamentary Amendment 1968/56 as amended by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. The total majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Ladies and gentlemen, the positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u247	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Testing of qualifications and behaviour of candidate drivers and drivers for the granting of driving licences, other provisions on driving licences and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u249	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-20-S1-commons.u250	With the consent of the House at 17.40' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 9.30', on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and b) legislative work, only debate and vote at the outset, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "To ratify the concessions concluded between the Greek State and the Port Authority S.A. - Provisions for the functioning of the port governance system and other provisions’ in accordance with the agenda allocated to you.
