ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's approval of 20 March 2019, the minutes of the meeting, of Wednesday 20 March 2019, concerning the vote on the entire draft law: “Promoting essential gender equality, preventing and combating racial violence – Arrangements on the allocation of citizenship – Provisions on elections to local government – Other provisions”.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 22 March 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis on the subject of 'Readaptation fees for large hydroelectric power stations' under number 427/19-3-2019. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 424/18-32019 of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The founding of a department of tourism based in Rhodes and the supremacy of “ASTER” with its integration into the University of Aegean". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 425/18-32019 of the Member of the Lesvos Parliament, Mr Charalambos Athanasiou, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on "Inhumane and degrading, for Lesvos and Greece, the current situation in the Centre for Reception in Moria". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 418/12-32019 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the Minister's decision: "Introduction of Students to Departments of Music Studies". 3. The question by number 400/4-32019 of the New Democracy MP, Athanasiou Bourras, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Reopening of the General School of Magulas as an examination centre'. 4. The 395/1-32019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Association of Centrals Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The new ministerial decision to introduce students to the Music Departments of the country is blocking the dreams of students". 5. Under No 279/15-1-2019, the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the Transport Equivalent". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 4659/3-1-2019 of the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning "the solution to the association of the Democritus University of Thrace (IMP) - Eastern Macedonia and Thrace (AMTH)".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the debate on the one timely question, I would like to announce the timely questions that will not be discussed. The first question under number 422/18-32019 in the first cycle (A) of Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: 'What is the policy of managing resources from cultural heritage?', will not be discussed in consultation with the Minister. The second, with number 428/19-32019, is the first question by MP Heraklion of Democratic Association Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The Municipality of Crete and the Region are excluded from the new Programme. Of the eight thousand ninety-three seats are reserved for Crete only,” he will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Konstantinos Barkas. The first question under number 423/18-32019 by MP Serres of New Democracy, Kostas Karamanlis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Let the Government explain what it intends to do with the Egnatia Road", will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzi on grounds of travel abroad. The fourth question under number 393/27-2-2019, first cycle (B) by MP of Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The supply of seven hundred fifty buses for urban transport - three hundred fifty for Thessaloniki", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Christos Spirtzis. Cause: travel abroad. The fourth question under number 386/26-2-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Dangerous "hot" in Apostlemi, in the Department of Gouves - Hersonissos", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Christos Spirtzis. Cause: travel abroad. The fifth, with number 378/25-2-2019, topical question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Recompensation benefits for the regions in the administrative limits of which the reservoirs/frames of Mornos and Evnos are located, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Christos Spirtzis. Cause: travel abroad. The second question under number 429/19-3-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association Mr Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To address directly the problems caused by traditional wine growing and by traditional distillation", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Cause: workload. The first, with number 402/5-3-2019, topical question (B) of Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy, Photinis Arabatzis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Full failure to carry out controls and sanctions on Greek and ovine milk" will not be discussed as a result of the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Cause: workload. The third, with number 377/25-2-2019, topical question (B) by the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Maniou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Addition of honey to the foods of the households’, will not be discussed as a result of the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Cause: workload. The sixth question under number 392/26-2-2019 of the New Democracy MP Arta Georgios Stylios to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Critical change is here, the necessary infrastructure is missing", will not be discussed as a result of the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Cause: workload. The first question under number 5511/8-2-2019 question of the cycle of petitions and questions (B) by the Member of the Ilias of the Democratic Association Mr Yiannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The dramatic situation in the irrigation network of Elias and the indifference of the Government", will not be discussed as a result of the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Cause: workload. The second first question under number 396/1-32019 by MP II of the Democratic Compact Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "100 years after the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus, the government continues to act to promote its recognition by the international community", will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Georgios Karugalos. Cause: official mission abroad. We know he's in Antalya. The third, with number 408/5-3-2019, top-circuit question (B) by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Selonda Gifts S.A.", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. Cause: Mission abroad. The second question, under number 409/5-3-2019, of the Athens Parliamentary Second Party of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Dangerous working conditions of the employees of distributors", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. Cause: Mission abroad. Also, the seventh under number 330/4-2-2019 topical second-cycle question (B) by Independent Evia MP Nikolaos Michou to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: “Continuance of persecution of members of the Greek minority in Albania”, will not be discussed. The eighth Question No 284/21-1-2019 by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "Albanian street developments in the creation of "Greek Albania" will not be discussed. The ninth under number 280/17-1-2019 topical question by MP for the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: “The administration of the Aegean is promoting the government”, will not be discussed. The tenth, under number 260/9-1-2019, topical question by Member of Parliament I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of an inland ship”, will not be discussed. Eleventh Question No 261/9-1-2019 by MP for the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Anthony Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed. The twelfth question under number 263/9-1-2019 by MP for the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "Cazan ready to explode the state of Skopje" will not be discussed. There is also a letter from the Secretary-General of the Government in this respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u5	Apparently you want to protest. I give you the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Listening to you really to read the long list of topical questions, which, unfortunately, will not be answered by the government, I would really like to protest about this flagrant violation of parliamentary control. As far as I am concerned, today was to be debated - from the 7-32019 postponement of course, where no timely question has been raised, because of the vote on the Health Ministry's bill - my question on the major issue of the Greek products and, of course, with a crown of milk. You know, Mr President, I am even more protesting because I consider it to be disgraceful to Parliament and, of course, to all citizens who have the honour of representing in this area the response from the political leadership 'on the basis of a workload'. I do not know how the ministers identify the workload, and if Parliament's control and the major responses that they must give are not a priority in their work. I will say that there are three lives in the Ministry of Rural Development: the Minister, the Deputy Minister and the State Secretary, Mrs Tyloridos, who is responsible for these matters of livestock capital and Greekism, and of course we find that no one is here today. And I strongly protest, Mr President, because I have submitted a request for documents on this major issue from 23-7-2018, namely that no necessary fines should be imposed by the ELGO - DIMITA for the Greekizations in milk. Since 23 July 2018, I have received no reply, Mr President. And I strongly protest, because my question is linked to the expectation of a very necessary joint ministerial decision by Mr Arachovitis, concerning the alleged speeding up of controls on milk, a sector, Mr President, which really is winter. It's a national issue of livestock farming.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u7	But do not analyse the question now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President, not even a minute. Since October we have been waiting for the signature of this KHS by Mrs Papanatsiou, we have at the end of March, and today we expect an answer to this joint ministerial decision. It ends the lactic period in one month and indeed the farmers are at their mercy. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u9	The fact is that many times the word 'opportunity' has lost its meaning. I saw the other postponements, and I saw yours, which was before March, February. Let's go back months. The President of Parliament must say that he has made continuous and strict recommendations. There are ministers who have responded. I'm not saying bad things for those who don't respond. I would like to say that Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, for example, who is here today, at least as many times as I presiding is present. You are right, however, and it is also commonly accepted in the Conference of Presidents. That is to say, the government colleagues, represented at the Conference of Presidents, say the same thing. The President is sure to be following the meeting today. I won't tell you you're wrong. So we are now moving on to the only timely question that will be discussed today, namely the first Question No 403/4-3-2019, first-round question (B) - the paper on Thursday, March 7, 2019 - Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: "The Government does not give evidence of the public evaluation", which is being debated by postponement. There will be a relative tolerance - one whole question - both to the honourable Member and to the Minister. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, it is a pleasure that you are here and it would be even more pleasant if we really received answers to an issue in which the ministers, who earlier than you had the responsibility of this ministry, gave me the answers that I think they should have given me. I saw that you have recently taken out a circular for the evaluation of 2018, which will be done electronically and, of course, we are pleased that we are getting into a new form more rapid and faster so that the results of this evaluation can be better managed. However, it is true that for the period 2016 and 2017, in the two previous evaluation periods, as I took over to your Ministry and there, there has been no official information on very important elements, which I think are interesting to see how the evaluation went, how it progressed, what needs to be corrected, what needs to be improved. We do not know how many have been evaluated by the civil servants who have had to be assessed. That's a given one. We do not know the rankings that your law, the law of the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL, Law No.4369/2016, provides. We know very well that in some cases it enables the administration to help the staff member who is not considered sufficient to improve his performance. It is therefore of great interest to see whether this process has worked, how many under sixty have been evaluated, and how many are the administration really doing through the heads of administration, which is provided for in your law, to help their work and their performance? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. All of this I think we did not even need to come here to answer them, because your own law in Article 17 provides in its last paragraph, namely paragraph 15, for the establishment of an Evaluation Monitoring and Statistical Analysis Directorate - quite rightly - which manages statistical data and time series, compiles data analysis reports on the rating and is required to issue annually instruction on ratings. In other words, we had to have all the statistics, see what is going on with these ratings, so that the Ministry could see whether the evaluation process is working properly, or has to intervene in a new way, with a new legislative initiative. Please, Minister, what answers do we have for the evaluation periods 2016-2017? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u11	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to mention to my dear Mr Georgioda that the government and the national public reform strategy are a firm priority in the evaluation process. That is why we made progress in changing the legislative framework last year in order to make it possible for the digital evaluation, which was carried out for the first time last year for the evaluation period 2017. The 2016 period - which was the first application of the system - was done in the traditional form. It was - we would say - a first application, somehow pilot. So the actual possibility to collect data we have is based on the digital platform that was implemented for the period 2017. And here I can give you the information we have gathered, passing directly to the first question you raised. All those responsible for evaluating civil servants - I say 'political officials', because you are well aware that uniforms and a number of other categories are not required - are seventy-five thousand thirteen. Of these fifty - five thousand eight hundred ninety - four were registered on the electronic platform. The total number of officials evaluated - we always talk about 2017 - amounts to a hundred forty-seven thousand eighty-eighty nine. One hundred and twenty-eighty thousand seventy-seven were evaluated electronically, because you know that there was a possibility in some cases - for services which were difficult - that there would also be a supplementary paper process. And that evidence, if you'd like, I can give it to you in writing. The percentage of officials evaluated electronically and in the traditional form therefore corresponds to 84.5% of the persons responsible for evaluation and the percentage of the staff evaluated electronically corresponds to 82.6% of those evaluated. Now, with regard to the second question, with regard to the proposed improvement measures, as you know, the law provides that these measures must be taken by both the assessor and the department, if the rating is less than sixty. And that is something that the supervisor himself is also judged to be. Mr Georgioda, I will reply to the third question and then return to the second question because they are on the agenda - in October of 2018, the evaluation procedure for the period of 2017 has been completed and we are now in the process of examining the objections that we expect it to be completed. That is why we do not yet have the final scores, because the objections are of course made in cases where the assessments had lower ratings. When the objections procedure is completed and the final reports from the respective Special Assessment Committee are also available, we will have a full picture of the facts, which will of course also be available to Parliament, while at the same time the provision, which provides for measures to support these officials, can be activated. I would like to point out that, as you mentioned, we have already issued since 12 March the circular for the 2018 rating period, which expires at the end of June. We believe that there is now both the upgraded platform and the experience, so that this process can be initiated much more quickly and effectively. And to conclude by saying that when we have the final picture of the exhibitions and ratings for 2017, as a central agency in the Ministry, there is also the thought, where it is found that some services have specific problems, that they should also be predicted in collaboration with the NHRF special support seminars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u13	Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u14	We started doing something, Minister. We started and we have an image for 2017. However, you will allow me to say that the rate at which specifically for 2017 - where the evaluation was electronic - is responding to the Ministry and its services is not assessed as sufficient, at least by me. Indeed, I see your circular from 22 October 2018, which gave a deadline by 5 November 2018 to gather through electronic application all the evaluation reports. I imagine it would not be particularly difficult from 5 November to date, that is to say five months later, to have one picture, even of how many objections are pending. In other words, it is of interest and you have this element to see how many have been rated under '60'. The objections are coming out, of course, and it will certainly not be a final table if the objections are still pending. I see it too long for objections to be pending. In any case, what we want to do - and I think it is understood by everyone - is to convince the Greek people that a real and effective assessment is being made of public officials, as is done by everyone who is doing a job. We must not have a return to 'all 10' as was the case before. So my critical question to which I am not answering today - I accept that you are not ready - concerns the final results where objections were raised. But you are not telling me how many objections were raised and what cases we had classified under '60'. Otherwise, until I have the evidence, you give me the right to say that it is an assessment that has been started and changed, in fact, the culture of civil servants and you are coming back to what New Democracy has always supported. However, on the other hand, we must also have a substantial and objective assessment, which helps two things: rewarding the competent civil servants and, indeed, enabling them to assist in the performance of those who lag behind the monitoring and care of the head of authority. In my answer to that question, I am not taking it. I wish I could call right away. I'll be here to watch it. I think that the time has passed is reasonable. And I have to say to you, on the question of this article I read, Article 17(15), where statistics had to be prepared, only one full address was made for it, which is obliged to draw up annual directives. I saw it didn't work out. He had to retain and compile statistics and have the data. That doesn't exist either. If there's anything, give it to us. Well, I haven't seen anything from an entire address that was only done for that purpose. And I am worried that there is no such evidence, in combination with something else. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The census figures - and I close with this - of human resources have been updated since October 2018, Minister. It is a long time since we have not been informed about the actual number of civil servants, contractors and legal persons and private legal persons. For me not to inform anyone from October 2018 until March 2019 is a huge time. I would ask you to see this because it is not possible to have such a long delay on such important issues, which concern all Greeks - all Greek taxpayers - at the time we are going through and which, as you know, is considered suspicious. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u15	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to say that the information that I have read about the evaluation period 2017 is official information collected by our agency - I can give it to you in writing - and in any case it is official information that we have informed the institutions and the European Commission. I must also assure you, like this House, that the information we give on the evaluation and the census that you have referred to is one of the most reliable elements. In particular, the census has the full recognition of the European Commission. That is why its data are also taken as a basis in all the analyses and assessments, and in our country's assessment ahead of the last Eurogroup and EuroWorking Group next week. In relation to the census, there's nothing suspicious! After all, you know that every time I come to the House I myself table the census figures in all the debates that we have had. It just happens at the end of the year, because some updates are made in relation to departures and in all procedures when the year closes, there is a delay in the full recording of the last two months and the passage to the new year. That is why next year it is moving quickly. But I would like to assure you that within the next ten days these results of the census will also have been posted. Moreover, with the interim results which we had, for which the last audit is carried out, I had announced to the House that nine thousand regular civil servants left by the end of December. So, in fact, this is also the framework of the recruitment rule for the current year. Now, as far as the elements of the evaluation are concerned, I have mentioned the general elements we have collected. The objections, because they are made in the case of ratings below sixty which you refer to in the question - because of course there are no objections to the best ratings - are in the services concerned and we are waiting for the final reports. Look, it's a new institution, a new process. We encourage them. As soon as we have that evidence, we'll be able to give it to you. There's nothing to hide anyway. And as I told you, we are also concerned by the evaluation of this process of organising specific training and support programmes. In any case, I would like to close with a political comment. We all agree on the need for evaluation. However, we also need to form a level of internal confidence in public administration in relation to evaluation. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for half a minute. Because one of the problems faced by the government after the 2015 elections - I am six months Minister, but I am speaking on the basis of the collective experience of the public, as I receive it - is that in the evaluation effort, which had been made in 2014 at compulsory rates of insufficiency and punishment - as was assumed - in conjunction with the availability, he slandered and undermined the concept of evaluation in public officials' consciousness. I believe that we have now largely restored this confidence, and I would like to believe that now with this digital system - because you know very well that the figures before 2014, which had also been made, were in fact not collected, because they were in paper form, which I have sought to make some historical analyses and references and are not - which is a new application, we all have to support this new electronic application. And I want to believe that very quickly I will be able to give you more concrete and detailed information than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u17	The number of objections, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u18	However, as far as you are concerned from what you have suggested, you will be presenting them, otherwise you will send them to your colleague at some point. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-21-S1-commons.u19	With the consent of the House at 10.10 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 22 March 2019 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
