ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u1	Thank you, Mr President. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Mr Mitsotakis, the last time we were in this Chamber, you sat at the seat that you were sitting in today, the prime minister, you were standing with my hands crossed and you called me a liar. You invited me to submit to the Minutes your representative, Mr Petsa, statements he has made, statements he has made to us that he has never made, and that I am a liar at all times. We also tabled them in the Minutes in the public debate. The whole of Greece saw it. And finally, it turned out that the liar was you, not me. Mr. Mitsotakis, you know, the leader is characterized not only by his ability to blame the opponent, but also by his political courage to recognize his mistakes. And not only did you not apologise to your representative, but you did not admit your complaint, you did not say a single public apology. So I come to tell you today that you are not just a liar, but a coward. Unless you make it up to us today, because you still have a chance. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] I'm going to be so sad today. Don't make any calls. Today you'll make a lot of calls. You don't need the moment my location starts to make any calls. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So we are going to today because it is your right to disintegrate yourself into Parliament as much as you wish, in live broadcasts, with theatres and with accusations of your opponents. What I think is not your right is to give the public a sense of law, but also to disperse our country internationally. I asked you the timely legislative question about the so-called 'white collar crimes' on the 12th of the month, that is before you voted on the Criminal Codes. The reason was to give you the opportunity to rethink it and get it back. Not only did you not get it back, but you didn't even come to answer it. You preferred to to tour Macedonia. But you did not even come to plenary to place yourself in a debate and vote on the new Criminal Codes when the majority voted on these "photographic" provisions for which we are inviting you. Of course, you did this because you want to stay outside of the dock and let others do the dirty work. And I am sure that if the next day the British 'FINANCIAL TIMES' had not raised the matter, you would not even be here today. This post ruined your design because you had well managed to pass this to the "cry" topic from the big TV media and media in our country. But the problem, Mr Mitsotakis, is not only that you are conducting a diligent policy - you are doing favors, saying it popular - in the parasitic oligarchy and in the business elite, and not only that these favors can hardly be convinced that they are made by ideoscopy or ignorance, i.e. without consideration. The biggest problem, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is that only four months after the election result, you are rushing very quickly to win the lost four-year time and, as it turns out, as many years as four and half years - did not have your protection because you were not in the government headquarters. So you come back to restore normality, but what regularity? The normality that the Greek people have known well for many years, the regularity of interlocutory, corruption, this normality, which threw the country on the rocks and led it to bankruptcy and to the end to the memorials. And you've exceeded every limit of unobtrusive favor against this category of economic crime. I think that today you should give some answers to the National Representation, explain - not to us, to the Greek people - why your Government legislates in a way that weakens justice in its fight against economic criminals, which harms the sense of justice in the eyes of citizens and makes the country an international laugh. You have to answer the Greek taxpayers, those who are very difficult to manage to be okay with the law, answer who you serve with these provisions. So let's start over, because today I don't ask you for one or two, but for three people, in my opinion, interventions. The two have already been made, for one, there is still room for change even now. You have lifted a great deal of syriza institutional reform, a comprehensive modernisation reform of the Criminal Codes, a reform that had to take place since the 1950s and the last few years all the lawyers, and of course many of your members including them, have publicly admitted the need for this reform of modernisation to proceed. But for the first time in history, a reform that was carried out as it should have been, with a public dialogue, with a nomadic committee of acquaintance professors and not by party officials of the ruling party at the time, and with a public debate and a consultation that lasted for months, a result was produced. For the first time in time, three months later, with the mediation of the national elections and the change of the government's majority, you have come - such a major structural and overall reform, without actually judging it - to relegate. Three months later! What was the pretext for public opinion? That the SYRIZA government was supposed to be more favourable with this reform, in any case, not for the criminals of economic crime, but for the possession of molotov bombs. That was the argument. And so you who swear to law and order would come to restore a dragon law to deal with lawlessness. Yes, sir. Of course all this is funny, because, in fact, what SYRIZA, the Legislative Committee, did - and the governmental majority, in relation to this issue, was a rationalisation, which was coming to restore the credibility of the sentences itself. Because you knew very well that when we were talking about a contributory penalty it was a sentence that was never served. And we came to restore credibility, saying 'Yes, there is a distinction between the occupation and the drop, but the occupation, which is badly committed, will be carried out by imprisonment of three to five years'. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Tell me one case, all the previous time the occupation was a felony, when was there a prison, even one, for the occupation? But it seemed in the past few days, and it seemed reasonable in the eyes of the public as much as you tried to hide it, that in the end your purpose had nothing to do with the lawlessness of occupation or the casting of molotov. Your purpose was to "accomplish" the accounts of economic criminals and make the gift of criminal immunity to bankers. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of SYRIZA is ringing.]] Let us take the matter one by one, and I will ask for the Bureau's tolerance. Let time be removed from my second thought. Let's start with the release of suspects' accounts, accused of money laundering. I don't think anyone would have to say much here. Sufficiently enough, what the public authority has said about "slapping" in public consultation is that there is a risk, with your intervention, that the recovery of crime products will be cancelled by the State, that the assets of suspected serious crimes will be attributed to the years before, and that the perpetrators will be encouraged with the greatest infraction and that the main aim of the general prevention of serious economic crime will be cancelled. That is not what we are talking about, the independent authority is saying about 'leafing'. In fact, Mr Mitsotakis, in what sense did you go through a law that unleashs the accounts of suspects for money before the case is finalized? And we know very well that one of the basic pathogens of Greek justice is delays. I have heard the answer - I do not know if you will tell me today -'so that the citizens and businessmen in particular are not hostaged while justice is slow'. And, really, I wonder, who exactly do you characterize as hostages? Subjudicial entrepreneurs, bankers and shipowners, as the FINANCIAL TIMES say - not us - who have committed their accounts because they are controlled for money laundering, are you characterizing them as hostages? Then what is the rest of the country? Of these, we are all hostages, from those who make money on the back of the Greek people and at the expense of the Greek public! We're the hostages, not them! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I ask you: why did you open this legislative 'window' and now each suspect can take his money, disappear, and then if convicted running - he's back? How will the public get the stolen money? Finally, the crucial question, which will reasonably be of interest to the citizen, is who are ultimately favoured by this scandalous provision and can demand the release of their money, which the valid British newspaper speaks of 1,2 billion euros, not 10 and 30 million euros, but more than 0.5 billion euros of our GDP! You must answer these questions and answer them by name. Because, already, the main accused of the "NOVARTIS" scandal in the country, the key to this demolition industry of doctors, politicians and journalists in the country, the main here, in Greece, Mr. Frouzis, you know him...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u2	That never before was called...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u3	Yes, Mrs. Pipilis, Mr. Frouzis, who was organizing dinners for Prime Minister Mitsotakis in the 2012 election period, yes, he is! You know him well! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] He, who you are now presenting to us as a credible witness, went out to the committee and said that he will of course use the new provision in order to release about EUR 2 million from his account to the banks of Switzerland. And it's one of the dozens, maybe hundreds, because 2 million in front of 1.2 billion. You realize it's a drop in the ocean. But, of course, to avoid misunderstanding, this is not our issue, because people who have been in favour of huge corruption, who have been employing public opinion and justice for many years and who will now have access to the frozen accounts of hundreds of millions of euros. And the question is: why are you doing this? Did you have it on your schedule? Why didn't you tell the Greek people? Do you do it in terms? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Did you vote for such a scandalous provision - with the risk of breaking your line, but also for the country abroad - from ignorance, from naivety? I wish this was it. I sincerely speak to you, it is difficult to believe, especially if you calculate the glossy amount of money that will be released into accounts, especially in foreign banks. But, even if you do so in terms, it is shameful to speak of law and order against the weak, against those who are hard to break the law and order for the great and the powerful, for those who today I will call "bulk costumes and ties that steal public money and spend life on the outside, to the health of the sucklers". These are the causes of bankruptcy. These are the policies that have led us to bankruptcy and you are unfortunately reinstated. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I now come to the question of the immunity of bankers, the second point I give you. What exactly are you doing? They are legally guaranteed immunity for a number of cases in which criminals are being persecuted, including'marines' to parties and media, and for precedents, for what has been given in the past, but also for the next ones. You know what? Because four and a half years we've ruled, we've got the picture of what's going on. We were asked to do this for four years, but we did not implement this request. Once you took over rule you came by hand and on foot immediately to do this favor cannot be persecuted automatically, but only if the bank insults its administration, i.e. to itself. And what did you tell us? That you are supposed to be able to do this without fear of moving on to debt write-offs and set-offs. Really? Is that your pain? Of course, no legislative committee has ever called for such a scandalous regulation. And three years in which we have been under the hardship of the institutions and the European Central Bank, no one has thought of submitting us with such a request for immunity. Of course, it was a matter. And of course, we have made legislation, namely No 4472/2017, for this reason, in order to create the conditions for bank managers to be able to restructure red loans without the arbitrary criminal prosecution law. But what you do, nothing has anything to do with it. No committee has asked for it. This provision suddenly appeared to be an orphan, after your meeting with the bankers at the Maximos Mansion, where you called on them - and rightly so - to lift the horrendous charges imposed on citizens, consumers and they have decided once again - with you, I say - to make fun of the world by making a partial suspension and not cancel the charges, possibly the immunity they have asked for so many years. So you don't care - and leave that fairy tale - the cosmopolis and his agony for his loans. You are interested in acquittal - retrospective - bank executives for dirty'sea-saves' cases, precisely - I will say, because in these cases they worked on the order of your own political system, the one that ruled in the previous 40 years and led the country to bankruptcy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you are legally acquitted of those who, through the seas, led the banks to three answerable recapitalisations, which the Greek people paid for. Don't laugh. You're laughing, huh?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u4	I can't stop laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u5	I do not know whether you will laugh at me by saying - and I shall say this immediately - that one of the cases of the seashores is about the loan and unsavoury of your parties, the New Democracy and the former PASOK that is missing from the Chamber, which totals 400 million euros. These cases are going to protect, but other assumptions like "KERYKAS HUNGY". [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's not for laughing, it's for crying what you're doing. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] And well you don't hear us, the Association of Prosecutors of Greece, which warned you that there was a risk of impunity, did you not hear it? That dozens of cases of corruption are going to be brought to the sound of unpurpose, didn't you hear that? You heard it, but it's exactly what you're looking for. And to close, let's go to the last part of the trilogy of shame. You refuse to vote on the interpretative statement proposed by SYRIZA in Article 86 of the Constitution, in this abortion that has washed so many political and economic scandals and is the great shadow in the relationship of credibility between politics and citizens. You know very well that it is the right and predominant scientific view that we support, that is to say, that the provision of Article 86 of the Constitution should be interpreted closely so that, in the sense of 'in the exercise of tasks', crimes such as bribery are not included. Mr. Mitsotakis, a Minister cannot have his duties bribed. If he does, he will do so on the occasion of these duties. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We say, therefore, that the Minister's bribery should not fall within the short deadline, so that it cannot be postponed if two parliamentary periods are passed, which may, depending on political developments and the situation, be too short. And to be avenged by regular justice, as avenged for every ordinary citizen. In the first Review House you have arranged for SYRIZA's proposal for this clarification - but in the mosquitos, without announcing it - to get a little less than 180 votes, if I'm not mistaken it took 176, fearing that if SYRIZA won the elections, it could be with 151 to change the article of the Constitution. And today you and KINAAL are coming, without shame and refuse to vote on this interpretative statement, which is the strictest interpretative version of the committing of crimes in the exercise of ministerial duties. And the question is, why? Do you want a minister who might have been bribed? And if so, why? Do you have anything to fear? Is what burns you are possible criminal responsibilities for cases? Do you want to make sure from now on that you will write down any case of your Minister's bribery about the "NOVARTIS" scandal? Don't rush to blame me for a hazard, I don't say that. He is not in the Chamber - he is the Vice-President of your Party and Minister of Economy, who is now coming to meetings with farmers. It invites farmers to come to Koumoundourou to bring what they were sowing, to reap it. That's your real self! That's the reality. So, what did he say on February 25, 2019? Let me tell you: "If you are prosecuted for passive bribery, I will appeal to the council responsible for recognizing the limitation, as provided for in Article 86 of the Constitution and then sue for abuse of authority to anyone who has decided to do so. If they are investigating passive bribery they are illegal." So here's why you're doing all this. That's what you want, clean up any criminal responsibilities of your officers. If you do not want this and you are honest with the Greek people, so I urge you today to change your attitude and vote in favour of the interpretation put forward by SYRIZA for the constitutional review. You will also be voting in favour of it and we will applaud it if you have the guts. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Mitsotakis, all three of your speeches are claustrophobic, exposing you irreparably with the 'good morning' of your administration. If that is what you mean, saying'return to normality', I tell you directly that this is a return to complexity, inconsistency and impunity, which led us to the crisis. And we'll get this hampered by the Greek people sooner or later. Do not think that with media interventions and calls such misunderstandings, such scandalous legislative interventions, they will be kept secret. I call on you, at least, today to give the Greek people fundamentally convincing answers and, if necessary, I will come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u6	The President of the Government, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Tsipras, you have begun your intervention with insults and designations. It is clear that you were not seeking to take advantage of this opportunity given by the Rules of Procedure to discuss soberly a timely question. You wanted once again to fall into a snare of tension and exchanging traits. So I tell you now: if you want to move in this direction, it is your right. I'm not going to follow. I have a country to rule and a people to inform. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I come to the House for the third time in less than five months from the vote of confidence in the government to take advantage of the time of the Prime Minister. And because, Mr Tsipras, you described me as a coward and that I am avoiding coming to the House and answering your questions, I would just like, for the sake of history, to submit in the Minutes your own statistics on how you used the Prime Minister's time. I will tell you how many questions you have asked in the four and a half years that you have ruled, Mr Tsipras. And I think you can take care of me and not send messages, since we are talking about respect for the House. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Unless they send you messages to prepare you for your dentistry. I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u8	From the cell phone, you don't just send messages.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u9	So three hundred nineteen questions had been tabled to the Prime Minister. You replied, a total of four and a half years, to eleven. [[Contexts from the New Democracy Wing]] I mean, it's one every five and a half months, 3.5%. Something reminds you of that percentage. Looks like he's chasing you a little. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You may not have answered as Prime Minister, as a Member you have decided to ask. I'm not saying, that's one step too. But here, Mr Tsipras, once again you are also institutionally intransigent and politically improper. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure requires that the topical and urgent questions are at most brief on two issues. Mrs. Gennamas, I have to say she has complied with this rule. You have asked me a three-page question, which contains five different issues, including a number of unexistent assumptions. So look, Mr Tsipras, what's going on here. That's very interesting. You tabled this question, in fact, before the Criminal Codes were voted on. I couldn't answer you last week because I had miserable obligations. But I am here this week to answer. You have re-subscribed, Mr Tsipras, exactly the same question. In the third subcommittee you refer to the words: 'What encourages the government to set a new time limit without being provided for' - take note of this - 'transitional period'. Isn't that predictable? Inconceivable again, Mr. Tsipras? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Haven't you seen Article 15 here? In large letters it writes it here: transitional provision. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So when you re-submit the same question, please make sure you have read it. And for the immunity of bankers there is a transitional provision. And that's where you're undetected! At least, at least, when you're about to resubmit, you can adjust it to reality. Read it yourself, at least, have a personal view of what you are tabling. You blame us, SYRIZA blames the New Democracy for a diligent attitude to corruption. Yes, sir. I will speak once again, Mr Tsipras, with very specific information. In 2012, where was Greece classified as International Transparency? Ninety-fourth place. In 2015 it was found in the fifty-eighth place, to relapse in 2018 in the sixty-seventh place. These are SYRIZA's works and days with evidence! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm filing them in the Minutes and please give them to the Chief of Officer's Response. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You know, Mr Tsipras, it is very hypocritical that you constantly stir this candy about 'white collars'. You have now told them 'white collars', you have distinguished them from others 'white collars'. We do not want any white collar balls or 'blackheads' in universities. The law in that country will apply to everyone, whether they are strong or weak. If you like it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If you see the application of the law as an obstacle to respecting democratic legitimacy, tell us, Mr Tsipras, to understand it as well. Let's go see what happened over your days for the crimes of the 'white collar'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u10	The debate is not interactive, it is based on the Rules of Procedure. He's speaking to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u11	The European Commission, Mr Tsipras, in the fourth enhanced surveillance report - yes, the one published a few days ago and fully approved government policy, opening up the way to both the liberalisation of SNPs and ANFAs without asterisks and footnotes - like the European Anti-Corruption Agency and GRECO - I have them all here - were inviting you, Mr Tsipras, for what exactly? Let's say it, so the Greek citizens can understand it. You were being prosecuted for turning bribery into a mere injury by a heavy felony. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's what you did, Mr. Tsipras. I put it in the Minutes, so you can give it to the Chief of Antipopulation. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Didn't you know, Mr. Tsipras? Did they become the prerogative of your own declared will to fight corruption? You did this, Mr. Tsipras, and that's what we're correcting with the Criminal Codes. And we correct them on the recommendation of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr Tsipras. Take note, then, of your words when you talk about “white collars”, it may sometimes also be dirty and a tie not to be worn. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In other words, I now come to the specific three questions you have raised. You are asking us once again - you will of course also be able to do so today and on Monday in the debate in plenary - why do we not adopt the interpretative declaration in Rule 86 on the responsibility of Ministers. We have answered you closely in committee, Mr Javarras, the Members who have spoken, Mr Gerapitris. We have explained our position on this matter to you. I'll repeat it one more time. Your interpretative statement distinguishes the offences committed in the exercise and at the occasion of ministerial duties. This argument is a cheap firework, Mr. Tsipras, and it is over. Because if you were to consult lawyers, you might have been protected for what you are proposing. This distinction, which you are hypocritically suggesting, you know very well that it has already been delimited by the Special Court and certainly does not differentiate or could not do so, the clear case law on what constitutes ‘application of tasks’ and what constitutes ‘on occasion of duty’. But if, in your interpretative statement, you are seeking something else - and I would like you to make it clear - that, like'revival of offences' for which the amortisation deadline has elapsed, please tell us whether you want to do this - then explain to us that this does not destroy any concept of rule of law, because it would lead very simply to retroactive application of criminal law and would erode a founding stone of law that has been in place since the 17th century. If you mean that, at least explain it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Stop, Mr Tsipras, this hypocrisy about the responsibility of the ministers, because there is history. Let me remind you, once again, that in November 2006, in my first term in Parliament, together with six colleagues from New Democracy and with Mr Loverdos from PASOK, we signed a proposal for the revision of Article 86. We then described it as a cross-party tool for the impunity and immunity of politicians, which does not allow for a thorough investigation of their diligent actions. Indeed, then the political system did not have the courage, nor did my party judge Article 86 as being revised. I did not, of course, see anyone on the left back then, supporting our proposal. Nobody! Nobody signed up for your space, not one! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So let constitutional lions, and let us keep it, Mr Tsipras, as a conquest of the political system, that we can finally agree, and I will say, first and foremost, in the change of Article 86, so as to finally abolish the amortization deadline, which in fact allows ministerial offences to be dropped in practice after two years. It is a conquest for the political system, even though it is too late, that Article 86 is changing. So let all the rest of us keep the great conquest of the change in Article 86 and finally proceed by looking at the future. We are now going to the question of prosecuting bankers by imprisonment and not on our own behalf. That's what you were supposed to do. The answer here is based on common sense. The banks act in the field of the private economy and any infringements committed by the bank's executives are primarily of interest to the institutions themselves. They are damaged and they should activate the criminal investigation mechanism. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] The old practice, to conduct court investigations with the authoritative action of the prosecutors, Mr. Tsipras, has in practice proved to be harmful. And harmful to the citizens, mostly. You know what he did? He led bankers to a completely defensive attitude towards initiatives such as a brave debt arrangement. This very immorality, which freezes everything, comes to heal the new arrangement. The possibility was therefore envisaged by the administration of the banks, and for judicial proceedings - because you told us that there was neither a transitional provision - investigations, which have already begun, a two-month transitional provision for indictment is provided. And if you think another time needs to be given, we should talk about it. I'm open to do it. And if the boards are acting for whatever reason, there are general assemblies that can change the boards, Mr. Tsipras. There is no case therefore that the directly interested parties, i.e. the banks themselves, retain the right to exercise the prescribed indictment in the event of infringement. And not forget, Mr Tsipras, that banking is controlled by specific rules. Controlled by specific instruments. It is primarily controlled by the Bank of Greece. What is happening everywhere in Europe is finally true in our country. And at some point, we must boldly admit some bitter truths. Only if we deal with them in the faces will we be able to change them. You know, Mr Tsipras, that too many bank officials have been dragged into court for many years for decisions they have taken. Business decisions. To grant a loan is a business decision taken by the bank. This business decision is checked by the bank itself and the procedures by which this decision is taken is checked by the Bank of Greece. There's been a lot of stalking. They went to court and almost everything was acquitted, Mr. Tsipras. You don't know that? Don't you know that's the reality today? Do you not know that the country's biggest problem today is this huge deinvestment, which keeps the country on fire? What a bank executive today will have the courage to sign a brave restructuring of loans that will save a business, save jobs, because all that you have done was destroyed and closed down by businesses. The workers were out of work! I did not see you shed any crocodile tears for all the businesses that could not be restructured, precisely because the bankers were afraid to sign restructurings, because they knew they might have been facing justice. So clear words, Mr. Tsipras. We received this mandate from the Greek people. To put forward the productive machine of the economy, to correct the pathogens in the banking system, to attract investment, to create jobs, and that's what we're going to do. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I should like to close with the last issue of the topical and urgent question, which is the famous commitment. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Why such concern, ladies and gentlemen? A famous asset commitment by the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority from Criminal Activities. What is the situation we have received in this area? The President of the Authority, Mr Tsipras, had the opportunity, without any criminal prosecution, to commit to vague assets in fact. Of course, this was not just about 'grey' entrepreneurs. It was about many ordinary citizens, many small professionals, employees. Until their case was examined, they became financially hostages without being able to pay their partners and handle as they wanted their largest or smaller assets. Even if they were ultimately entitled - and most of them are always entitled - they had, in the meantime, been destroyed, Mr Tsipras, by a process that lasted for years. This may have been due to excessive zeal or simply to disciplinary action by the competent body. And you know that the majority of cases are, in the end, vindicated. You know that. They're rendered innocent in life. Only too many, until then, have gone bankrupt. We have therefore predicted, in full compliance with the proposals of the Legislative Committee, Mr Tsipras, that the freezing of the assets from now on cannot exceed eighteen months. This is going to happen from now on. Why did we foresee the eighteen months, Mr. Tsipras? Because it is the constitutional maximum limit, which applies to temporary imprisonment. Do you agree with this provision, as to what should be done for the future? Do you agree or disagree? Or you should consider that the assets may be committed indefinitely. Tell us to understand it. And I would remind you that what we did was a recommendation from the OECD. We are now coming to the matter of what has happened with the past. So that there will not be a risk - and there I will agree with you - of an uncritical release of assets in cases where such orders already exist, a transitional provision has been provided, which you did not know. That is why you asked me whether there was no transitional provision. Well, there's a transitional arrangement, Mr. Tsipras. I've given it to you. You can before your dentistry study it or inform you of what the transitional provision says. So, what does it say, Mr. Catrugale, the transitional arrangement? He says, Mr Tsipras, that within three months of the entry into force of the new codes, the President of the authority is obliged to promote cases for a final judgment to the judge or the judiciary, i.e. to independent, impartial judges. To say it quite simply, in three months, he must put all the material in a box and send it to justice. If you consider that all three months are not enough to make this process, we should also discuss this. The judicial crisis, however, Mr Tsipras, is not limited in time. It can occur at any time within eighteen months. You don't know that? What about this one? Indiscretion again? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And it is regrettable that while there have been answers to the House, there is an invocation for a publication of the "FINANCIAL TIMES", which the government has disproved, because it has not given rise to reality. It misinterpreted the publication that within three months it was considered to be an extension of the commitment. Indeed, it could be argued that three months are too short to judge all these cases. Except the post was wrong, Mr. Tsipras. It is sometimes the case for FINANCIAL TIMES journalists. What can we do? This can happen too. I repeat this once again, in order to understand it well, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA: the quarter is only a time limit for the pending cases to be sent to judge. It's not a time to examine them. That will be within eighteen months. So, Mr Tsipras, you and SYRIZA rushed to identify yourself with the post. A foreign journalist can make a mistake about a Greek law, but not a politician and above all, the Chief of Officer Response, who should have read it. The honourable Member seems to have not even looked at the text of the law, because then he would find, as I said before, that no asset is released. The picture you gave, Mr. Tsipras, is that about after the law was passed, all the assets were released. This is the image that someone would have obtained by listening to your position. This, Mr. Tsipras, is a lie. It's another lie. It's not true, to say otherwise, not to tell me that I'm lying to you again. So read the text of the law. You understand well what we are doing and criticise us if you believe in real data and not in what you imagine. So what can I say? And I'm closing up with it. From the "DEUTSCHE WELLE" of the occupation to "FINANCIAL TIMES" read backwards, always "lost in translation", Mr. Tsipras!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-three students and students and three teachers from the 10th Municipal School of Tripoli. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Chief of Staff and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u13	Mr Mitsotakis, I must be very happy with your position today, because, at least, we have been at a different stage. From a liar, I became impassable. That's something. Rather than being a liar, and in any case constantly, it would be better to be inconsistent. But let's go and see who the reader is and who the undetected one is. [[Noise in the Chamber]] What's wrong with you now? Why are you shouting? What have I said and are you calling a shame? What's wrong with you today? You're a little worried.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u14	They are concerned on the other hand, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u15	That is true, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u16	Mrs. Baguea will rest now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u17	It's true. So I come to answer one of the Prime Minister's objections. First of all, Mr Mitsotakis, you started your speech, criticizing me of the number of current questions which I answered as Prime Minister. And you did a genius for 3% too. Three hundred nineteen questions were asked. Questions, however, were tabled by party leaders only 15 and four-and-a-half years when I was Prime Minister. I answered the eight questions, i.e. over 60%. Of course, I have answered all the questions that you have asked me as Chief of Officership - you must not have complained about - but the only difference is that you had a monopoly. I think three times you asked me a question. All three times it was about the matters of order, law and security. Only, as far as I can see, you have other measures and more standards for law and order today. For we are with the law and with the order and the bracelets with the molotovs, but also with the bogeymans of economic crime, the ones you are acquitting. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I will answer, and now: why, then, three hundred nineteen questions? Fifteen were the leaders of the parties. The rest? All right, now, the two hundred seventeen of these are tabled by a Member only. One! Mr. Nicholas. I imagine, however, that you understand - and you are Prime Minister today - that it is not so easy to come every Friday to answer a Member. I imagine you are doing so now, because eighteen questions have been put in total while you are Prime Minister, fourteen of them have been submitted by the Heads of Parliament and fourteen have only been discussed. Less than 3% are you, Mr Mitsotakis, already in the four months that you are ruling. So don't give up on those nephews! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Now we're going to the point. You wanted to overcome all three crucial issues and the three key questions with 'other words to be loved'. I'll be in one by one. You have wasted most of your time explaining to us in a disgraceful way and in annoying manner that you allegedly have brought about the release of the accounts and assets of the criminals of economic crime, it is a bad interpretation, it is a false picture that we and "what a pity, sometimes these journalists are making mistakes". They're making mistakes, and these journalists are making mistakes! Indeed, I would like to ask you, before entering the point, this: After making mistakes, why did we not see in the letter sent by Mr Gerapettritis to the FINANCIAL TIMES to withdraw? Why? Such a serious form, since it fell into a mistake, as you have told us - one might fall into the wrong, even a journalist - why didn't he make it up to us? You have made a letter with the same arguments you have told us here in Parliament, on the assumption of transitional provisions - and I am indisputable - and I have not seen them make good. And I want to tell you why they haven't made it up to you. Because, from the beginning to the end, everything they wrote was accurate. Do not rush to tell us now the nonsense I have heard from some of your Members - I think Mrs Vulture said it - that FINANCIAL TIMES is an instrument of SYRIZA, supported the SYRIZA for four and a half years. Yes, Mrs. Vultusis, do you know in Koumoundourou we're going to the café with the "FINANCIAL TIMES" in the pocket and we tell each other: Comrade, do you have the "FINANCIAL TIMES", see what the party is writing today? Come on, get serious! Come on, get serious! As for the transition that we have invoked, we obviously have seen it. What transition? This is a false provision - a transitional provision, because the principle has three months of what? To send the case files to the competent judicial body, which is responsible for what? Just validate or not, what? The overrun of the time limits you have set by law. So the only thing that the competent court will do is to judge whether or not it spent the eighteen months. Now you're working on us? Is that a transitional arrangement? So, from the day before yesterday, for a series of cases, critical cases - estimated EUR 1.2 billion; you deny that it is so? Tell you what elements you have - for a number of cases the time limit for the commitment has expired, it has begun to apply the provision and it is possible to send any dossier that has elapsed since the beginning of the eighteen-month period to the competent judicial body, only to recognise the fact that the eighteen-month period has elapsed. That's all this has to do. Who are you kidding? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] All right, you're telling us undetected. But don't say we don't know letters to read. So you are setting a scandalous case here and all you have to say to the House is that it has three months to see the competent judicial body if the eighteen months have passed. That is why you sent a letter and they did not reply and did not correct and did not withdraw. In any case, in your speech, please tell me this. Is it or isn't it 1.2 billion euros? Is it or isn't it? Are there cases of scandalous misappropriations, specific persons, which now, on the grounds that their cases are being delayed judicially, will their money be released and then "Don't see God"? Is this true or isn't it? That's what I asked you. Let's go down. You made an intervention in relation to the fact that, on our day, the indicators of corruption have deteriorated. All right, what can I tell you? I would just like to submit in the minutes the Ministry of Finance's press release, Tuesday 3 September 2019. It's yours, your government. It therefore draws up the following communication: "Today, Greece's assessment report was published by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) on the FATF website, which captures...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u18	Let's repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u19	What exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u20	I do not understand the abbreviation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u21	Mr. former Mayor, what exactly do you want? Let's go to the House's café and tell you if you want to, if you're curious about how it's pronounced. It is not pronounced 'Colambia'. I am at our disposal, however, because I particularly like you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u22	I didn't understand what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u23	I'll repeat it. What exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Tsipras, go on. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u25	‘Financial Action Task Force’. I continue: '... to improve our country's position in the field of rules and actions in combating money laundering and terrorist financing'. It says, therefore, the press release of the Ministry of Finance: “According to this report, Greece is classified in the first category of countries under normal surveillance, with a high degree of compliance and an effective system to prevent and combat money laundering and terrorist financing. This classification - you say - 'to the highest category of countries is the result of the evaluation process of the country that had been initiated and launched by the previous government'. You say so. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] So, when you and your own services - and you are right to do so, because the country must keep going - you come to use, for the international image of the country, the effort that has been made in these four and a half years against corruption, it is unfair for the country to come here and say something that no Greeks believe at the end of the day, because they all know why the country has entered into a crisis. Everyone knows why we went bankrupt. Everyone knows that corruption and complications were one of the most serious diseases of the Greek political system and one of the most serious causes of the crisis. We now go to the essence of your arguments in relation to what SYRIZA has done, because you have accused us that, with the reform of the penal codes, we have made corruption a blow and that the GRECO and the OECD have called us. First of all, I must tell you that GRECO is part of the Council of Europe. It was also the Council of Europe that encouraged the Greek Government, by a report, to modernise criminal codes and to modernise penalties. I want to submit it for the Minutes, just to keep it in mind. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] SYRIZA, then, without having skeletons in his closet, has brought the reform to an end in the field of criminal justice, by voting on these codes, a top reform! You have also called it 'the top reform'. Mr. Tsiaras said in a statement, "The new penal codes are a great project." That's what Mr. Chiaras said. SYRIZA, therefore, has brought this reform to fruition. But it's not just Mr. Chiaras. Your officials, who are currently sitting on the boards and then were Members of other parties, such as the River, for example, have voted in favour. Evangelos Venizelos, for whom one can say a lot, but the last thing he can say is that he was a friend and supporter of SYRIZA, defended by this one the Step, this great and brave reform initiative, and welcomed it. And, of course, a special legislative committee has worked on this reform for over ten years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u26	Not one, many.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u27	And its members were legal schools, judge associations, legal associations, academics of distinguished prestige. The same people - it's true - you held the committee as the body. So the comments from GRECO and the OECD, on which you referred, were raised only after an announcement from the Association of Prosecutors of Greece. And what did they do? They made it necessary to review whether the country responded to international standards for the fight against corruption, which - I would say - for such a large reform was sensible in the face of this wide change in criminal law, which, however, came - this anguish, I said before - contrary to the constant insistence of the Council of Europe to streamline penalties. So I explained before my first speech - I will not delay my speech - what we did, that we brought 'true sentences', that is, penalties that are being executed and'smart penalties', that is, penalties combined with incentives to return the stolen ones. So now let's go to the next issue, which you have raised with your position. The next issue is the retroactive application of Article 86. You come along and say that you agree with us on case law, that case law is a given one - and that is a positive step, if I understand it well, because I may not well understand that you agree with us - that bribery is not in the service, but it is on this occasion. Do you agree or do you not agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u28	We've been through this, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u29	Oh, you don't agree. I didn't understand well. Please clarify. Do you agree or do you not agree with that? Because that is the crucial issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u30	Wait!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u31	What we have been asking you for a long time is this: is a minister's bribery in the performance of his duties? In other words, the amortisation deadline under Article 86 comes if there is this narrow deadline, which is provided for in Article 86, or if elections are held and we have two consecutive parliamentary periods. Or is it on duty? That is the crucial question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u32	We've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u33	Because I understood that you said that there was a case-law in this regard.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u34	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u35	What is this case law? I want your opinion. And I want your opinion, as this is a crucial matter. We have the process of constitutional revision tomorrow and the Greek people must know. Because if you think it is a given and, therefore, it is an exaggeration to put it in the Constitution as a clarification provision, that is another position which I would like to hear from you. If you think case law is a given, but it's a case law that says...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u36	What's the case law that's in favour of...?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u37	You're wrong here. There's a decision. But it is a debate which we will be having tomorrow during the debate on the Review. So, here you come to defend the view, which says it is "in the performance of tasks" to bribe a minister. Well, I won't tell you anything else if that's it. I give you the scam of the Greek people and the citizens themselves who voted your Party in the last elections. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] Because on this issue - believe me - you will not find a Greek citizen defending this view. You also said, on the issue of bribery and bribery, that we in the Criminal Code have made the bribery that comes from a ordinary citizen more urgent than the bribery of an official and politician. Indeed, it is. We did that. And we did so at the suggestion of the committee, which you also say you trust. It is something that is happening throughout Europe, since, of course, from politicians and from civil servants, the state must wait longer. Thus, heavy bribery by a mere employee and any kind of bribery and bribery, involving political persons, remained felony. Otherwise, the dragon was indeed abolished and ineffective, for the suppression of corruption, a law 'above public abusers'. Why? Because the common sense of the whole political world - so I believe - and of public opinion - you will remember the cleanser's case, you will remember that - is that it did not face any problem of corruption in the seventy years of its implementation. Is it, then, that it should be abolished which today leads to limitations? The answer is unequivocally no. Such a limitation is brought to an end, because, unfortunately, they are tried by the Greek courts after 14 and 15 years. It is therefore due to the basic preservation of the so-called 'justice' of cases for many years in cases of criminal archaeological monuments. So I come and close so that I do not go far to the main question, which I have raised to you, Mr Mitsotakis, and I hope you will respond to your dentistry: Firstly, for whom and what amounts do you release and proceed to this legislative initiative? Secondly, why are you, who come to make it easier for bank managers, when you know very well that we have gone to legislation so that there is not the so-called 'fashioned break' of criminal prosecution over the bank executives who are moving forward and want to go ahead with regulation and restructuring? We legislated on it in agreement with the institutions. So, your argument that you're doing it for this is - let me - the least funny. Finally, why do you not agree to vote together on this interpretative provision for Article 86, which will restore the credibility of the political system? The view, with regard to the issue of cases filed, in cases of prosecution of bank managers, is a sale view, because the "seas" of your parties have not been filed. Seaweeds in the media and newspapers have not been filed. So, with what you have legislated, what you are really pursuing is for these critical, the political system, assumptions, to create immunity conditions for bank managers, which are being persecuted. The last thing I want to say - and I close - is this: you said that we will not be able to get into brave restructuring unless we give immunity to bank officials. What are these brave restructures, which you have in mind, which may be hampered? Do you, in the end, think, apart from what I said before about seas, do you have the case of FORTHNET? Is this the big and brave restructuring that your friend and supporter and sponsor of your business is coming to get a business with a haircut of over 90% of its debts, which no businessman could see, no healthy business in this country, no matter how much you protected the bankers? [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] So if this is one of the reasons - not the gentleman - that you are going through this procedure, and again I believe that, unfortunately for you, we have caught you again, as our people say, 'with the sprout on your back'. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] So your arguments are lame. Your arguments are poor. The Greek people, I think, have fully understood what is why we are abducing you, because you are being abdicated by the international journalistic community and because with everything you do, you are creating a stigma of the country abroad. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] And with this stigma you will not be able to attract investors because investors come to a country that has laws, not to a country that has immunity, not to a country where negotiations take place behind the scene and exchanges take place under the table. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That is what led the country to the crisis, that logic and that attitude which you today, unfortunately, as far as I can see, are reinstated and you have no single point in justifying yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-seven students from the Panteion University. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Government, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Tsipras, investors have been running for your own days!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u40	Tell me one you brought!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u41	I am surprised that you have chosen - by citing information about how many questions you have answered - to claim that you are only answering questions of party leaders. You committed a mistake, in my view. The Prime Minister's time is an opportunity for the Prime Minister to answer questions of ordinary Members, as I have already done. In any case, I intend, Mr Tsipras, to be in this House once a month, as I have committed myself and I observe it. You used to come in once in the semester. That's what the evidence says. So let me close this case and you will judge me at the end of the four-year period if I have complied with the commitment that I have made. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will not repeat what I said in my prototype. The reform issues will have the opportunity to discuss them again in Parliament on Monday. I would, of course, like to see and present opinions from approved constitutionalists drawn up in your own approach that the interpretative statement is necessary, because so far I have not found many in the constitutional community who claim that this is the right thing to do. I am not referring to Mr Gerapetti, who, obviously, too, can come to the debate in another capacity. However, I shall return to the question of the transitional provision. What you read, who wrote it to you? Your lawyer wrote them? [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Does Mr. Katrugalos agree with all that you said? Do you agree? Is the interpretation correct?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u42	It's a question-- a trap. Don't answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u43	Look out, it's a question - a trap! Because the provision referred to in Article 42 is clear. The judiciary judges the substance of the case and has the possibility, as I am sure it will do in a number of indeed problematic cases, to keep the accounts frozen. You asked who it was about. I don't know who it's about. Do you know that? Do you know that? So why don't you talk to me in addresses and names? I don't know. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And to remind you, all of this is personal data. If you know them and want them for the sake of public dialogue, to present them to the House and have in mind specific entrepreneurs who may be favoured, why don't you name them next time, to remember who they are and to look back at their history, to see if they had any privileged relations with you in the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u44	Who do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u45	From there on, Mr Tsipras, allow me a little more general remark in my denology. You had the opportunity to use your first chance in Prime Minister's time to ask me about the course of the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u46	We'll have another chance!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u47	You could ask me about the refugee - immigration issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u48	I was caught by Mrs. Gennimata.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u49	You could ask me about the interventions we make at universities, the abolition of university asylum, but of the bazaar and immunity regime in universities. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You could ask me about the application of the anti-smoking law. I still expect to hear your opinion whether the law is well or badly applied. In other words, you could ask me about a set of issues relating to the current political situation, which concern citizens much more than the issues you have raised today. Four years, Mr Tsipras, as Prime Minister, your favorite issue was corruption, complexity, scandals, so-called scandals. You kept coming back to all of this, to somehow pull a dividing line of the new SYRIZA with the old, bad political establishment, which ruled forty years. Really, where's Mr. Raguss? I do not see him in the Chamber today, as well as all those who, in the end, joined SYRIZA's views. This insistence didn't work out for you. And it did not work out for you because, by going back on last four years, there were discussions in which, at the end of the day, tones went up much longer, hard words were said, perhaps speeches that should not be heard in this Chamber. And finally, what was left to the public, is a debate which created a total aversion for the political system, from which you are not escaping either. Do not think, in other words, that you can, after four years of governing this country, insist that you appear as the young, the uninfected, the moral, the clean, the left. That candy's over! It's no longer going through! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] Look, if you want to turn the country into an endless court last night, I prefer to turn it into a vast construction site for tomorrow. So that's a big difference to us! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] I cannot tell you how to carry out your duties as a Qualified Opposition. I understand and sympathize with your internal contradictions. It is not easy to see that a large part of the people who supported SYRIZA in the previous elections agree with the central political choices of this government. Now, if you choose, Mr Tsipras, to follow an extreme rhetoric again, that is your right. You are doing us a favor with this policy, making it easier by turning around at 3%, an extremist SYRIZA who is no longer there and can no longer be there for two reasons: firstly, because you are a Qualification - you have received 32% - and secondly, because no matter how much you want to forget, you have ruled four years and you have been condemned by the Greek people. This is no longer erased! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The convenient opposition to us, however, is a bad opposition to the place. But this will be your choice. I hope and hope that you do not follow this way and this style and that we can discuss it and - why not? - on certain issues to agree. And I hope that we will manage to agree, at least, on the possibility of voting on the Greeks who live abroad. It will be a great institutional conquest. But if you insist on this extreme, divisive rhetoric, all you will understand in the course is that you will find yourself in a total conflict with a society that is no longer there, it is gone forward, it requires us to talk about the future. That is what we will do and this policy will continue to serve!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, six Finnish supporters of the Athens Finnish Institute. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We will take a two-minute break to continue with the next timely question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We will now discuss the second question by number 223/17/18-11-2019 from the President of the Group of the Parliamentary Party of the Change Movement Mr. Fotinis (Fophis) Genuines to the Prime Minister, on the subject: "Accession - Migration: Our islands and all Greek society broadcast SOS". The President of the Movement of Change, Mr. Fotini Genomes, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, just as we write in our question, our islands and the entire Greek society emit SOS. Unfortunately, however, your Government does not come into the heart of the problem, which is the huge deficit of solidarity on the part of Europe, which refuses to assume its responsibilities. With the European Union-Turkey agreement, Europe has delivered the keys to the refugee - immigration to Erdogan, who is now able to blackmail us and Europe. But Europe is helplessly mocking Erdogan and even worse, Greece is watching and mocking Europe. So, I'm hitting once more from this step the alarm bell. The Greek people have demonstrated all these years the feelings of hospitality and solidarity that characterize them. But at the same time, we are proud of the people, not just honest. That is why we call it 'So far here'. The major pressure leads to a division of local communities. It's a terrible dangerous thing to do. Conflicts arise. The extreme right-wing caradot is there, Prime Minister, and unfortunately, there are also extreme right-wing voices through your own party. We must be able to reach agreement before it is too late, because that is the only way we will deal with the problem effectively. Let's finally stand up and hear our voice loudly. Two weeks ago, when I asked you the question, the population of people in the islands was about thirty-five thousand. Yesterday they were more than thirty - eight thousand, and today they are even more, because we had new arrivals. Every limit, therefore, has been exceeded, every strength of the country's reception and asylum system and every stamina of its residents. Mr Tsipras - that is the truth - committed our country to this adventure for purely micro-participatory reasons, by self-interest. He turned our country into a sucker of Europe. What are you doing now, Prime Minister? Do you continue on the same line? Are you determined to establish this situation from now on in this place? Can't you see what's coming in front of you? Can you not see that the refugee - immigration can even develop into a national tragedy? We cannot blame ourselves on the whole problem, on being Europe's only almost willing. Change the door now, Mr. Mitsotakis. Now take real initiatives. Stop fondling the mighty. Leave communication and deal with the substance. Because the snake egg is lurking, it's here. We must finally set our priorities and set our limits. Firstly, the refugee - immigration - is a matter of Europe and not of Greece. What does that mean? It means that you have an obligation to ensure that the European Union and each member country assume their respective responsibilities. To make a European Union decision immediately on new refugee relocation programmes in all the countries of the Union. There is, finally, a proportional distribution of burdens. With concrete measures against countries such as Hungary, which refuse to implement the decisions. There should be financial sanctions. To change the European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration and to return from the inland. To move forward, of course, the Dublin review procedures. The burden of examining asylum cannot be left to countries like Greece and Italy alone. As a first step, the European Union must be involved in the asylum procedures in our country. It's not enough, Prime Minister, it's just funding. It is not just Europe's ending with them. It has greater and wider responsibilities. Secondly, it is of course a question of protecting borders. Guard, finally, our borders, Mr. Mitsotakis. Reinforce deterrent forces. Require joint patrols with FRONTEX to make it clear that this is a European border. Prime Minister, FRONTEX cannot attempt and be effective in guarding the border on the north and east borders simply to make the observer. Why? With a closed border in the north and open to the east there is no solution, Mr Mitsotakis. There isn't. We're kidding each other. I want to ask where the development issue of ERASH is and why is it being delayed so much? What have you been doing since you took over? To make use of FRONTEX at the level of pre-border control, i.e. before immigrants enter, not only in our national territorial waters, but in the international waters and in the territory of our neighbouring country, Turkey. Will the port be immediately reinforced with radar and thermal cameras? And, of course, it is incomprehensible that the relevant ministers raise their hands up, simply say that the situation is unmanageable. Change the rod, Mr. Mitsotakis! The conditions require that you shake European leaderships and European institutions, that the cry of anguish of Greek society throughout Europe be heard. It is your responsibility to do this and you do not. I don't know if you don't want to, I don't know if you can't. We do not care what you privately say in our communications with Mrs Merkel or the other European leaders. The point is that this issue needs to be found at the top of our country's agenda, but also in Europe with documentation, with pressure, forcefully. And I do not see it, Mr Mitsotakis, neither do I nor the Greek citizens. Of course, Europeans do not feel it much worse. They have to feel it to react, don't make it easy on them all the time. It is time to claim what belongs to us in every way, even if we have to block critical decisions in Europe. And on such an initiative, we will be with you. I told you, and when you asked us to discuss the issue of Greek undemocraticism, which we tried to help too much to find a consensus solution. I told you, and then. We will be shouting about the refugee, because I think that's how we help you, but that's how we help our country. We will therefore not be left with simple spectators and accomplices to complete this crime at the expense of the country. Clean words, clean bills! Thirdly, the situation in the structures in the country. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, I returned from Diabetes the day before yesterday. Diavatas are one of the most organized hosting structures in our country, and even civil servants operate with self-depression. Civil servants, who are not even invited to the meetings, are almost nonexistent, unseen by power. The representatives of non-governmental organisations are invited to attend meetings to call civil servants and ask what their problems are and what they should carry out for the functioning of the structure. I'm closing the parentheses here. In this area, so far, people have endured and lived harmoniously with refugees - about a thousand people have the possibility of hosting this structure. But listen to what I saw with my own eyes there. Next to the structure, in the Diavatas in empty buildings, in multi-dimensional gateways, in children's playgrounds, in squares there are thousands, as the residents and mayor confirm, immigrants who have not been declared anywhere. In other words, the nightmare in Diavata is that about three and a half thousand people in the last six months and for your day they have been comfortable, very comfortable, bordering in Evros. We are not talking about the sea, nor are we talking about winter and floods, we are talking about this era, and we are talking about Evros and they have gone undisturbed for your days and have not been recorded anywhere. What do all these people do now? They roam around the Diavatas and try to find a way to be arrested to record and ask for asylum afterwards and stay for a few years and thus roam under these conditions in the wider area. Let me just tell you that the asylum seekers, those who are inside the structure, will pass through the interview that is needed to proceed with the process in 2023. And we're talking about speeding up decisions within six months? How? Explain to us. This situation, as you can see, has triggered the climate in the wider region. Is this not a clear indication that if there is no intervention at the core of the problem, which is practically the open Greek border, then the closed centres of the islands or the inland areas you announce will merely be a transfer centre as their final spread across the entire Greek territory? You have no doubt that will be the case. Transport centers you'll make. And how can you talk about security when there's no police station in the Diabetes? They ripped it out, took it away from there, and you completed the disaster, for you took both special guards serving at the gate of the structure. It is completely uncontrolled right now. So enough of the communication hypocrisy. We've been dancing all these years. We don't want any more. And most importantly, the Greek people can't stand it. Prime Minister, I went to Samos a while ago. When I went to this center "hospitable" - a form of speech hosted, on the slopes, small scenes on stones, on soil, under trees, everywhere - five thousand seven hundred fifty people. Today, the figure has exceeded six thousand nine hundred. Where's the camp? It's right next to the city in the houses. They agreed there in Samos to become a new capacity structure of a thousand two hundred people and a closed centre for another three hundred. What are you talking about? You're announcing a structure for five thousand. What decongestion are we talking about? Patience to Samos has been exhausted. They have already been deceived too many times on this issue, and that is why they do not believe you. Greece, Prime Minister, can't stand any more Morias. The people can no longer stand and it is shameful for our country, for Europe, for our culture to live in people, refugees under these conditions, conditions of impoverishment, dangerous to their health, for their physical integrity and ultimately for their own lives. Prime Minister, a baby of nine months lost his life from dehydration, as doctors then announced, by a simple gastroenteritis. Children and women are in danger, rape and abuse. It is incomprehensible, Prime Minister, your ministers to declare satisfaction with the operation of Moria. Of course, it is a tragic former SYRIZA Minister to declare: “There are no rapes every day. Only once in six months.’;
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u53	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u54	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u55	Be ashamed of those who call it. I mean, nothing's wrong. He's happy, too. They did fine! [[Noise - Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] I wonder what they would say if they were their own children. And I wonder what we would do if this case concerned our own children, Prime Minister. I expect clarification of the measures you have announced. Let us know how the dismantling takes place, how the necessary dispersion will proceed, but also who pays and how much for all this. Is there the money, Prime Minister? How much will the Greek state manage and how much will the non-governmental organisations, how much will the international organisations so far manage the lion's share? What procedures? By way of derogation, which you denounced on SYRIZA? Until when? Is there going to be a change in the legislative framework, or will we soon be talking again about audits and fraud from OLAF? But your government will be in control this time. We expect answers, Prime Minister, and clear clarifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas, for the question you have put to me. You have set a great deal in your introductory position to the European dimension of the issue. Allow me to raise this issue more in my dentistry and to say how we are dealing with this problem, which I think we all accept is here to stay. It is a problem that has an international dimension. It's a European matter. But it also has a national dimension, because it has a serious social impact and - let us not be fooled - it has many objective management difficulties. Unfortunately, bad decisions of the first time have been giggled and initial refugee flows have turned into a migratory storm. The truth is that since the European decision was taken on the previous government to close our northern borders, unfortunately the core of the problem, which is the difficulty of safeguarding the eastern borders, together with our closed northern borders, has led to an increase in the problem we have to face. However, we do not want to blind ourselves or we are interested in taking too much time to blame the previous ones. We have a duty to see reality in the face of reality and to assume our responsibilities together. I will also ask for your support outside Greece, particularly on a number of issues in which I believe there is at least an absolute consensus on the European dimension of the issue and the obligations that Europe must assume. I'm opening a parentheses. You have accused me or you have accused me that I am not addressing this issue at European level. I imagine that it will not escape your attention that yesterday in the European People's Party I essentially devoted the whole of my speech and all my public interventions, highlighting the European dimension of the issue and making Europe imperative to go ahead with the reform of Dublin, which I described as "extremely problematic and outdated". I also put before their responsibilities and parties belonging to my own political family, the European People's Party. I have reiterated something that I have said many times, namely that it is not possible for Europe to accept countries which, on the one hand, can enjoy the benefits of the European Union, such as access to the Schengen area and, on the other, to stubbornly deny any, even the least sharing of the problem on a European basis. So these issues have been raised and will be raised with even greater emphasis. And as the new European Commission starts its work on 1 December of this month, we have the privilege as a country to have Vice-President to the European Commission for the first time also responsible for the issues of refugee - immigration. I have made it clear that this is the dossier that Mrs Ursula von der Lyen should deal with as a matter of priority and, indeed, Mr Schinnas himself has made a commitment that by February he will table some of the first thoughts - guidelines for how the new committee is aware of the management of this issue. So there is the European dimension that is very important. The problem is European. It's not bilateral with Turkey. We won't get tired of saying it. We are, however, the ones who are in the eye of the cyclone, faced with the consequences of the problem. So, good and good what we are talking about Europe, but the country needs a national strategy for managing a major problem, which we are not sure whether it will be better or worse. We must be prepared to speak frankly about all the potential. So I say once again to the National Representation that our own policy, the policy that this government applies, has changed. It is the policy of this government by the SYRIZA government. Our borders are guarded and guarded, because the country obviously has borders not only on land but on the sea. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Checks in the country intensified. The new law speeds up asylum procedures and returns. I will come back to this later. Gradually - as you understand this cannot be done by pressing a button - the remote islands are relieved by analogous transfer of refugees - migrants to other regions, while, as I said at international level, we will insist in the most emphatic way on improving the Dublin framework. Our message is clear: Greece has its strengths, but clear vine is not! This time is over! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That means a tightening of our border policy. It means enclosed spaces, which we are launching. We have announced exactly where they will be, in consultation with local communities, in discussions which are not always easy. But I'll tell you something. You referred to Samos, which I have indeed visited many times. It's an island I love particularly. I have an absolute understanding of the size of the problem. The big problem with Samos, Mrs. Gennamas, and you know it, is this terrible Vathy camp. He's in the city. This camp will be closed. We all agree that it should be closed. A closed guarded structure will be created in its place. Bigger than what we said? Yeah, bigger than what we said, but away from the city. What is best for Samos, to have seven thousand refugees - migrants in these terrible conditions today in the Basque camp or a structure larger than the one we had appreciated, which will be far from the major urban centers of Samos? There is no better solution to this problem, but it is certainly what we are describing - and I am glad that both the mayor and the MP and the local players understand it - that our choice is the only right and practicable policy. I would invite you to support it, too. She's good after all. It's the best possible, anyway, for the island. We're moving on to the decongestion of the islands. A very specific plan has been announced for twenty thousand refugees and immigrants: The first five thousand hotels in hotels and another fifteen thousand in new structures, which will be created. The transporters are primarily families. I want to make that clear. Of course, I would also like to say the way in which they are allocated to the territory. There's no, you know, a magical algorithm who can solve this problem. We are making the best possible effort to be distributed in the fairest possible way in all the Greek regions and, of course, in structures that can support them and be able to live in human conditions, especially in view of the coming winter. I can assure you that the relevant ministers, Mr Chrysochidis, Mr Koumoutsaskos, Mr Stefanis, Mr Theodorikos, make the best possible. The best thing can be done to deal with this problem. And we are always open, if there are other proposals, ideas, thoughts, to be able to discuss them in good faith. You referred to the issue of border guarding. It is clear, Mrs Gennimata, that we need to set up a single border surveillance body, under which all available forces must be placed, and we need more people, so I gave special approval for the recruitment of four hundred border guards to Evros and eight hundred more on the islands. And if we judge, Mrs. Gennamas, that we need more - especially in Evros - we will take them. Evros will close. And although today we have problems with Evros, we will deal with them. I have a picture of the situation you described in the Diabetes. It's not really what you said. This is the situation that several regions of northern Greece face. You asked me about the National Integrated Maritime Surveillance System. You did well to ask me, but ask SYRIZA because for four and a half years he hasn't done anything at all. We shall proceed with the most urgent procedures and, if necessary, legislative intervention. It's a project of about EUR 60 million. She needs it yesterday. It is not possible to have a complete picture, not to see exactly what is going on in the Aegean, especially when we are talking about distances which are relatively small. The country will have such a system as soon as possible and by then we will make use of the means available to us. Today I will have the pleasure of meeting the Shipowners' Union. At my personal request, the Shipowners' Union responded. He'll give the Port House ten new inflatables. It's the ones I'm showing you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is the most modern of all, with full equipment, thermal cameras and the ability to sail in the most adverse weather conditions. The first five will be received by the summer and the next five by the end of next year, and other actions will be announced in the near future aimed at strengthening our Port House. I am presenting the relevant photograph in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as asylum and return are concerned, work has already begun. The first recruits have been made. Five hundred employees will be recruited to serve the asylum services. You know very well that the important areas that were brought about by the law proposed by Mr Chrysochoidis substantially accelerate the asylum procedure. The dates you set were with the old schedules. But what is the reality? We inherited from the previous government seventy thousand pending asylum applications and only a thousand eight hundred returns had been made, most of which were voluntary returns, was not the result of the Greek-Turkey Joint Declaration. They will therefore be returned, and they will be soon. I'm gonna avoid setting a certain numerical target. But there will be considerable returns, because they have one more purpose. We won't solve all our problems with returns. Symbolically, however, against the disgusting circuits of the traffickers and against those who know that they come to our country without a refugee profile, taking advantage of the weakness of the previous system, the message we send is clear: we welcome Greece is the ones we choose to be welcome in Greece! And those who are not welcome to our country will return! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We want to change the situation in the closed structures. Moria's going to gradually close. A modern structure will be built in another area in northern Lesvos. The region has been selected in consultation with the local authorities. This is the picture that the structures must have. I testify to the relevant photographs in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same is true in Chios, in all areas, has become the placement. We know where these structures are going to happen. The existing BIAL structure will be replaced, this structure will be closed, with a new guarded structure with a similar capacity. I've already told you what's going to happen to Samos. In Kos and Lero they are transformed into closed centers of existing structures. Two thousand and a thousand people will be able to accommodate themselves in these structures. They'll be kept inside, too. There will be human conditions in these structures, decent furnished spaces, cooling and heating facilities, in the surroundings there will be medical facilities, kitchens, if necessary places of worship. This is how closed centres are in areas such as Germany. This is a new concept of how these closed centres should be organised, which is attempting to reduce the number of immigrants on the islands, but at the same time taking care both of the safety of residents on the islands and of the control of the guests. We receive separate provisions for local communities and especially for our islands. In Lesvos, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios, reduced VAT rates will be extended by the end of 2000, and in all regions where people will be allocated from the islands, there will be a rapid improvement in health, education, public utility and tourism infrastructures. Locals will always be given priority in recruitment, while all facilities will be assigned later to the areas in which they are created. A special fund of EUR 50 million has already been set up. We call it the 'Solidarity Programme'. It will support those municipalities that will participate in the programme and which will create the new major structures to welcome refugees and immigrants, the second wave of fifteen thousand to move within the next three months. That is why we insist, however, that our immigration policy is aimed, Mrs Genuine, and prevented. That's why we're talking about the Single Monitoring Body, which is why we're increasing border guard, which is why we're getting fast new ships. We are serving legality, speeding up asylum procedures and with new staff in the services. We stand firm on the duplicate that I have spoken about in this Chamber before: human conditions for the downtrodden, safe conditions for the Greeks. Our policy, however, is evolving and must also respond to the data produced every day by reality itself. That is why our overall view of how we manage this issue is changed. I am closing down, ladies and gentlemen, by saying something that you all know about, and I believe that the whole of the Greek society is aware of: this crisis has come to stay. Unfortunately, Europe will still be a magnet for moving from Asia and Africa. And that is why it is called upon at European level, I will repeat, to protect its eastern borders, but also to share in a fair manner these fellow citizens who will ultimately enjoy the right to remain on the European continent. Unfortunately, Turkey does not seem to be taught by the deadlocks it is causing. I said this yesterday, and I will repeat it today at the National Representation: Turkey must also be forced to respect the commitments resulting from the Joint Declaration. Does the Joint Declaration have any problems, Madame Gennamas? Yeah, he's in trouble, but he's the best tool we've got at the moment. The joint declaration also means obligations for Greece, that is to say, refunds which have not been made, which also means obligations for Turkey. Obligation is when the Greek Coast Guard, the Greek Port State calls the Turkish Coast Guard, informing that a boat has begun from the Turkish coast, the Turkish Coast Guard intervening before the boat enters the Greek territorial waters. And yes, Turkey does - and it needs to be recognised by us with courage - is hosting millions of refugees. This does not mean, however, that it has the potential to take advantage of this issue in the way it does, as a lever of pressure on the European Union as a whole. As I have said again from this Step, we will definitely close the door to illegal human traffickers, to those who want to enter the country, knowing they do not have a refugee profile. We are, however, opening the door to our country, as we have always done, to those who are actually invaded. We had a lot of people down there, too. So with the same determination, with which we claim our security, we boldly welcome and incorporate anyone who deserves it, whoever wants it and whoever can. Our culture, you know, is too powerful to be easily influenced by others and our flag is too great to be able to embrace anyone who wishes to honor it. Greece has always travelled over wild waves caused by the wars, crises, population movements, but it has always found a way to surpass triumphs, to rejoice in calm waters, and I am sure that now united as a Greek society - we must be united in the face of this crisis - we will isolate these extreme voices, which, for reasons of personal or possibly party self-interest, want to make a sparrow on this problem. We must unitedly overcome this crisis. I have no doubt that this time we will also be able to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u58	The President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u59	Prime Minister, unfortunately your answer leaves many questions as to whether, when, and how, the plan that you have presented to us will be carried out. I would like to focus particularly on two points beyond the plan. Look, at party conferences in Europe, we're doing good and talking. I'm always talking and I'm going to do it again, because you asked for my contribution, and I guess that's what you mean. But I'm not a prime minister. You must do more than talk to the European People's Party. You must demand from Mrs Merkel the same from the European leaders, because that will only be the way to hear the voice of the Greek people and we will have the hope of having results. I say this, Prime Minister, because we are not currently managing the outcome of a crisis that has taken place. This crisis is under way, it will continue. And if we do not change policy, and if the European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration does not change, and if Dublin does not change, the crisis will remain here, it will be settled. And we are not willing to be sharing for this place and for the Greek people. You have also referred to the issue of borders and you have assured the Greek people that they are listening to us that you are fully protecting the borders. But, just a moment ago, I told you, Prime Minister, that since Evros for days you have been subjected to thousands of people who have not stopped them, who have no control at all. So it is not effective to work at the borders - and I am not only talking about maritime borders - and it is important because it shows whether political will and capacity exist. You will both be judged, Prime Minister, and you will be assured that in June we will return this question, because that is the task of counter-population. So we will be here to see what part of what you have told us today will have gone ahead, whether it has worked or not. I'll come to each other. Today, Prime Minister, on the islands and inland we must meet the needs of about 100 000 people. It sounds like a number of numbers, but that's about how many they are. Do you know how many people would have thought if all new entrants in the European Union had become a proportionate division since 2016? According to data from the International Organisation for Migration, between 2016 and the beginning of November, they entered the European Union from land and sea borders eight hundred and twenty-four thousand nine hundred people. Over two hundred and fifty thousand are the ones who came in from Greece. According to the European Agenda for Migration, then, it accounts for 1,9% of this figure, i.e. 15,000 sixty-three and seventy-three people. This is our share after the first reception. This must be our basis for discussion and our claimive framework, so that we can feel secure, neither hostages of Erdogan and Turkey, nor hostages of European funding, which is coming to gold out the pill of the crisis by placing it on Greek soil. The law on the basis of which ‘click structures’ operate, as many like to call them, pre-regulatory centres according to national and EU legislation, are the 2011 law and is a PASOK law. We are the last to disagree about their need to exist. Apparently they do. But give specific details about detention centres. Will they be kept disabled, and sick, and women alone, and families with children, and unaccompanied minors, all together in the same room? It's not an answer to a schematic that you made public in the past few days. I fear, Prime Minister, that your earlier government announcement was more communication, and a little under the pressure of the question we have been tabling for two weeks. We therefore want specific answers for the project. Have you cost it? Have you informed the European Commission? Has he agreed to contribute to its funding, or will you cover the costs of the state budget? Will the Greek citizen again pay for a matter that is European? Because the fund you spoke about, about solidarity, and that from our own resources, will be financed by the sacrifices of the Greek people. Is it true that even today we're talking about you're paying for feeding to the CFDs in Moria and elsewhere with state funding? Your plan, Prime Minister, is pharaonic. I will only give you one element: the entire penitentiary system in the country has a little more than ten thousand prisoners, and you say that you will make eighteen thousand places in six months? In a year? How much after all? And what happens until then? And is that also an incentive, until all of this is completed, to hurry through here? So tell us how this whole project will be implemented, what timetable and with what funding? We will emphasise once again that there is a need for detention facilities, but there is so much to speed up the procedures for returning those who are rejected. With the changes you have made, you have made the criteria more stringent. Yes, sir. This means that more will be rejected and there is no provision for all of them to leave faster than is the case today. What do we understand at the end of the day? That you will make closed "Mories" and then some time after you will be forced by the law - and you know it very well that this moment will come - free some of them - you cannot keep them forever, save them - then you will have closed structures and new opens. A hole in the water! Be careful, Prime Minister, don't get worse. There is a risk that there will also be problems in the inland. What you say about a quota of 1% per region, according to its population, is misleading. SYRIZA did the same thing. Nowhere has 1% actually passed to this day, but it has passed 100% of the local community and usually these regions have already been faced with increased problems. Because there you go and plan and place the structures, where there are already accumulated problems. You're talking about border guarding with the setting up of a single surveillance body. He's been there since 2012. So it's not enough to announce him again. Your obligation is to function and even operate effectively for border guarding. I told you before: you will be judged on this matter. You are talking about speeding up asylum procedures. Do you know that those who have entered the islands in recent months have not even been able to apply for asylum since there is administrative chaos? I feel that they do not give you the full picture, Prime Minister, and that often happens from partners who want to take full responsibility. Follow SYRIZA's recipe, designing major structures that will create issues in local communities. We propose small structures, hospitality in apartments, real rather than pre-formal dispersion and, of course, closed structures where necessary. To make good use of European money at this critical stage. To shape conditions for human living for refugees and immigrants. Until now, the refugee profile has been outweighed for as long as it stays in our country. If you have any other evidence, please give it to us, Prime Minister. Especially for those who are entitled to asylum as refugees, there is a need to attend schools for minors and programmes to learn Greek for adults or whatever language they choose, because most - not to be fooled - do not want to stay in our own country, want to continue their journey for other European capitals. Until now, only the storage of people has been financed. This is what SYRIZA has done for so many years: He financed the storeroom of souls, with no prospect of joining them. They built a system lost in translation. Let us be worthy of our traditions to people who have been forced to leave their homelands temporarily. Of course, we should always raise the issue of stability and financial assistance for the countries of origin so that they do not have to become the victims of slave traders and risk their own lives. Prime Minister, I close with this: I repeat that there is a need for a policy change in refugee - immigration now, in fact, not only in communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u60	The Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is called in Stepma for his own dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u61	Madam Gennamata, if I understood your two positions correctly, substantial disagreement on the policy that we must follow or follow, in any case, or we want to follow as a country, I do not see there being any. To sum up, after I tell you that this policy has nothing to do with the policy pursued by the previous government. Because what did the previous government do? For a year it has made Greece a centre of transit, in fact, saying that everyone is welcome, to find themselves suddenly with our northern borders closed, with a declaration from the European Union - Turkey, which was negotiated and agreed in the absentia of Greece, and which helped us to reduce quite a few of the flows, but it has not exploited this favourable circumstance to make returns and to change the asylum procedure and certainly has not inherited an organised ministry or an organised plan for how to deal with those who enter. That was the policy of SYRIZA, which I would say on a symbolic level always has as a point of reference the notorious phrase of Mr Tsipras that there are no borders at sea. So that was SYRIZA's policy. We are pursuing a different policy. So where do I see that we agree? In four central points: Firstly, the problem is European, it is not only Greek. It's also Greek, but it's primarily European. What do we ask of Europe? Two specific things: firstly, that Europe should support Greece, but also all the countries that are the European Union's external borders, so that our borders can be secure. That means resources, that means people, and that means procedures, Mrs Gennamas, because the guarding of the borders is not just a talk that we call it, we have to decide what we are going to do and what the guarding of our maritime and land borders means.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u62	I offered it to you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u63	So this is very important and it is a matter that I keep raising. And the second thing we ask of Europe is a direct change in the Dublin Regulation so that the first-entry countries will not be charged with the exclusive procedure for the full examination of asylum applications and that this procedure can also be done in other European countries. In addition, Mr Zehofer's preliminary draft proposal has also been launched, as it has been put forward in the public debate. Germany is our ally in this effort. You asked me what Mrs. Merkel said. He's our ally in this effort. But we'll find problems. We won't find it in Germany, in this policy. At the same time, this Europe-Turkey Declaration - I want to be realistic - does not believe that this declaration can be changed at the moment, but it can be implemented and applied by both sides. We cannot contact the Turkish Coast Guard on the basis of the declaration and not get an answer on boats we know and know that starts on the Turkish coast. Of course, it is unacceptable - I will say again - that Greece, which had to make refunds, has not done so. Greece will therefore make refunds and we agree that refunds must be made. We therefore agree on the European dimension of the issue. We agree that the islands of the eastern Aegean must be dismantled. I do not think there is any disagreement about that. And this will be done with a project which Mr Stefanis has presented very well, with specific timetables and, of course, with a plan of what these people are going to go to. I hear your concern that it would be better to go to apartments, to hotels. There are European resources for this first time. You asked me about Europe. Of course Europe is also fully aware of what we are doing and are in regular communication with DG HOME, which also has responsibility and financial instruments to support this. I do not think the problem will be money. And sometimes, you know, Europe is hiding behind the money, so that it can actually get us into the problem and not take the hardest political decisions that we have been talking about. The distribution has been done in the best possible way - I repeat - always in consultation with the local communities and always making specific forecasts for the islands, which should know what their future is in this situation, but also for the local communities, for the municipalities, where we will create larger structures than the ones that exist today. We agree that there must be closed pre-regulatory structures on the islands. I don't think anyone's questioning it. I don't know what SYRIZA says about this. I imagine SYRIZA disagrees. However, I would like to remind you, Mrs Gennimata, since the debate brought this to light, that on 4 March 2016 - I remember it, because it was my birthday day and I had just taken over the President of the New Democracy - we had held a meeting in the Presidential Palace on the issue of refugees - immigration. The agreement at that time and on the part of the government at that time was that we are going to go in this direction. You remember that well. No, of course, absolutely nothing. The main axes, therefore, that had been in place since then, have not been implemented by the previous government. They'll be applied by her. And, of course, you have every right - and you will do well - to be here, to criticise us and to check us for the timetable, which we have set, which, yes, is ambitious, but it is a timetable that we will do what we are going through, so that we can implement it. The fourth point, to which we agree, is that we must guard our borders differently and more effectively. We told you what we're doing to Evros, what we're doing at sea. We told you how we want to strengthen the port and know that the maximum possible redistribution of forces in the port has already been achieved so that now that the tourist season is over we can transport ships from the rest of Greece to the eastern Aegean, we can get the best possible presence. The issue has also been raised in NATO, because this NATO mission, which exists, and it has its usefulness, because on a ship there is a Greek officer and a Turkish officer and that is useful so that no one can claim that there is no communication between the two parties. We are therefore sending a clear message that our borders are protected in a different way: land and sea. I repeat, however, that this will ultimately be Europe's responsibility. We are positive that Europe should be able to support us on this initiative, but, as I have said before, it is not just the mood, it is not enough, it is not enough, as the vessels of FRONTEX are, but we need to know exactly what is going on at sea and that is not at this moment, at least in Europe, quite clearly. I close, Mrs Gennamas, by telling you once again that this problem is an important problem, a problem that is lasting, a problem for which Greek society understands that there are no magical solutions. Other problems can be solved very quickly, but this is extremely complex. It is a problem, which has a strong human dimension, and this human dimension, which relates primarily to the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable groups, there I believe we cannot and have no right to make a discount. As emergency vaccines were sent to Samos and Lesvos to vaccinate children outside this protection framework, the same protection will always be given to the most vulnerable. And most vulnerable, of course, are the unaccompanied minors. We have about a thousand children right now in the organized structures, but we have four thousand children, who are either in Moria or in other places in extremely problematic conditions, or are in the streets of Athens, unfortunately with tragic stories, which you all know about. I have therefore made a personal commitment, and there will be an immediate announcement of a national coordinator on this issue, to deal with it. I have to say to you - and I have to close with this - that it is not a good sign of European solidarity that we have specifically tried for unaccompanied minors to get in touch with all European countries and say: for God's sake, for three thousand children we are talking about! Will we keep the thousands of five hundred, the remaining three thousand children cannot be allocated to twenty-seven countries so that Europe can show solidarity in the most sensitive sector and in numbers which are ultimately insignificant for large European countries? Unfortunately, the answer - and I am sorry to say it - does not honor Europe. The answer we have received was not positive. However, we, you and we all will continue to insist on putting the matter in a serious position. We assume our responsibilities for what we have to do in the country. This makes it easier for us in our discussions with Europe. All that has been done, the change in the legislative framework, the greater emphasis we place on border guarding, are weapons that we have in our negotiation. So I will tell you that your criticism is reasoned and your tone is the right one. I would simply ask you to bear in mind that we have no reason to make it easier either in Europe or in Greece, so that we do not present the situation as it is. We have no reason to present it worse than it is. I do not believe that it is your intentions, and I say this quite clearly, and I do not see this from the tone of your question, but ultimately it is a problem that concerns us all and we will all solve it together. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u64	With the denunciation of the Prime Minister, the debate on topical and urgent questions to the Prime Minister has been concluded. Before entering the special agenda of legislative work, which we are legislating on a new constitution, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question report of Monday, 25 November 2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Cycle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies) 1 Η by No 226/18-11-2019 a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Integration of Knossos into the list of monuments of global cultural heritage". 2 H under No 234/19-11-2019 a topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Culture and Sport, on the subject: "An unjustified revocation of a Ministerial Decision declaring the industrial complex PYRKAL". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies) 1 Τ No 194/11-11-2019 topical question by MP I Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Christophoros Vernardakis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Evitational sues against employees of the Ministry of Culture and Sport (YPE), members of a committee of monitoring and receiving sub-projects of movable monuments, by a lower contractor". 2 Η by No. 209/12-11-2019 a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Problems of the students of the Department of Nursing - Annex of the Dimotech". 3 H under number 197/11-11-2019 by MP Thesprotia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Marios Katsis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Suspension of operation of the Department of Translation and Interpretation of the University of Ioannina based in Igoumenitsa". 4. The question asked by MP I Thessaloniki by the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Notopoulou to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: 'Delay in the implementation of earlier protection measures for workers affected by the collapse of the company 'Thomas COOK'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1 The question under number 980/27-10-2019 of the Greek Radical Left Coalition, Christos Giannoulis, to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: "Reopening of the building on Enanatia Street 13 as a student centre of Alexandria TEI of Thessaloniki (International University of Greece)". 2 H under number 1065/3-10-2019, question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Timetable of appointments in Special Education and Education, recommendation of organic positions, breakdown by industry and specialization and coverage of gaps". Ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting the sitting here for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Parliament's decisions: Continuation of the debate on the revised provisions of the Constitution in accordance with Rule 110 of the Constitution and Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure (6th and 7th thematic section of the Commission: Articles 96 para. 5, 101A, 101p. 1 and 4, 101 (importation of interpretative statement), 102 para. 2, 112 pp. 4 (repealing paragraph), 113 (repeal), 114(1). 1, 114 pp. 2 (repealing paragraph), 115(1). 1 and 2, 115 pp. 3 (repealing paragraph), 115(1). 4 (repealing paragraph) and 119(1). 1 (repeal of paragraph)). Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting on the Constitutional Review begins, and it is the last day of debate today on the last section ahead of the vote on Monday. In relation to colleagues and because yesterday we did not go to 2.00 hours, but we interrupted earlier and did not speak, these colleagues, after they want to speak today, will precede the colleagues who will be enrolled for today's sitting. And it is desirable that the Members of yesterday's unity should include the issues of today's unity in their speech, if they consider it right. It would be right to do that. I think they'll have the same time. The majority rapporteur, Mr Constantine Javarra, for 15 minutes, has the floor for the general rapporteur of the majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u67	Please, Mr. Javarras has already taken a stand-by.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I beg your pardon, there is an unresolved situation from yesterday that I consider to be serious, that in the end, until late evening, we did not have the provision for the change of Article 54(4). You realise that we are obviously all positive and we will finally vote, but once we are in place, we must be the one watching us understand - and the interpreter of law after that - what we have supported for this provision. We're talking vaguely. So I said - and the Bureau had accepted - that we are entitled to a two-minute position yesterday, or at least the rapporteurs-general...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u69	Yes, that was because we weren't allowed by the lady...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u70	As soon as the provision, which we hope will come today, we must be given the opportunity to assess it for a two-minute period, not more than that, and we who were the ones who missed this opportunity yesterday. We are the general rapporteurs of the parties and we are talking about all the scientists about the vote on the faults, but not about the constitutional issue. We talked more about the law that we saw yesterday's preliminary draft than the constitutional provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u71	But which law is founded on the constitutional provision, but you speak of the order of two things, and it takes precedence. You're right about that. Once the wording of Article 54 comes, this two-minute intervention will be provided for. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, sixty-four students and students and four educational sessions of the Trikala High. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The majority rapporteur, Mr Konstantinos Javarras, is now being called to Stepma for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, I was the dentist yesterday, and I would like to incorporate it in my present general report and have eighteen minutes. I'm not gonna do another dent for yesterday, why? Because there's got to be a sequencing of what I'm going to say with my current suggestion and with this second-guess that's pending, at least I have to be consistent and there's...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u73	What you're asking is reasonable, there has to be a sequencing. After all, you move to the boundary of the sequencing and not to the boundary of the infinite. The request was therefore accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the debate on the revision of the Constitution is closed in plenary. A procedure served by all sides and during the debates in the relevant parliamentary committee, but today and yesterday, from Monday continuously, with a parliamentary ethos entirely proportional to the seriousness of this process. What we have achieved is indeed important, despite the pettyness of some who, outside of this Ethiopia, continue to talk about an insignificant project that will not leave behind a strong footprint on the regulatory effectiveness of the Constitution in view of the modern context, political, social, etc. However, what I would like to address as a secondary one, before I deal with the conclusion of all these considerations, especially to SYRIZA's chosen colleagues, is the following question: do we agree that democracy is the codification of the procedures which are essentially the rationalisation of political life and through this rationalisation can the place be governed in such a way that, through the conflict between rival political forces, there is always a composition? The second question is: How can you stand up and tell us what you are imputing and testifying to us about the amendment of Article 86 with the following scourge: Including - you are asking us - the duty of the Minister to bribe? But, ladies and gentlemen, the duty of the Minister on the basis of the principle of legality which governs them cannot include an act of illegality and, indeed, a criminal act. So the question, as you put it, is not an argument, but it is a reproach, which you have made in the knowledge that it is not true. But on the contrary, it is a suffering of reason that violates every sense of rationality. It is even called this passion, a natural error. A crisis of 'is' is being formulated in terms of what is going on, that is, on the assumption of what has to be done. Indeed, what has to be done is that the Minister only has legal duties and not illegal ones. So you want that way to hide the obvious. That, under no circumstances can this interpretative declaration have any regulatory effectiveness, because all it does is equip a SYRIZA argument, not with reasonable arguments, but with fireworks, and even with such a question as to give a question of misleading and irrational value to which you are of course investing everything. It is known that Derida's saying for one of Marx's four ghosts who are still surviving is the fetish of the commodity. You are obviously using this particular reference as a very appropriate fetish use of a political commodity, which does not pass. In fact, yesterday, one of the exemplary presses of your space accused me of saying that Javarra said that the mistress was included in the duties of the Minister. That's misery. So I come today to address issues relating to military justice, Article 96(5), issues relating to decentralised state administration and issues relating to local government. Ladies and gentlemen, our proposal to reform the provision of Article 96(5) in such a way as to ensure the institutional guarantees provided by the Constitution for ordinary judges and for judges of the Armed Forces is an act due to the rule of law. Because in fact, all forms and all aspects of the jurisdiction of the State should be represented by institutions which have institutional guarantees, namely the independence of the operational and personal aspects of Article 87(1). In this case, then, I think that all the wings are in line, and in the light of Council Decision 2857/2003/EC of State, which I had analysed in committee, where, of course, very important problems have been solved, in conjunction with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. This is the case of Bellus against the public, against the Hellenic Republic. There is no doubt anymore that the way in which we formulate the Review and, in particular, the words 'could be treated by the judges of the Armed Forces in all matters' - that is to say, all possible references to their functioning within the judiciary - 'with the ordinary judges' - is considered to have expired. With regard to Rule 101a on the independent authorities, there is indeed a solution to the issues and problems that have arisen, firstly, the very increased majority, which, unfortunately, is not achieved, as has been demonstrated, within the Conference of Presidents for the election of the members of the administration of the independent administrative authorities. That is why we are limiting it from four fifths to three fifths and entrusting Parliament's Rules of Procedure to regulate the details. It is the House, that is, the highest form of popular expression of popular sovereignty, which exercises parliamentary control on the basis of Rule 43a of the Rules of Procedure on the independent administrative authorities. In this sense, therefore, the legal order and indeed, at the highest level, in the constitutional system, the authority of the independent authorities, whether the ones provided for by the Constitution or the other principles provided for by the joint legislature and called the ‘regulatory authorities’, which, on the basis of the provision in Article 56(3), second indent, which relates to ballots of election, are essentially assimilated to that very clear wording of the constitutional legislature that both of them and themselves prevent candidates from resigning if they do not go to eighteen months before the elections. That just simulates them. We do not think that we need, although we have been asked to do so, to abolish their differentiation and to be regarded as a single body. Indeed, in terms of protection, this is how the legal order treats them. On the matter now of decentralised state administration, we do not need to believe - and we have said so in the committee - no further clarification or addition. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the provision of this article concerning decentralised government, but also the provision of the next provision on local government, are proposals made in '75 which have been part of the constitutional history of the place and indeed still have the same value, importance, the same functionality and the same regulatory effectiveness. Specifically on the issue of decentralised administration, it is clear that both paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 is adopted as an organisational basis for the state, the administrative action of the State, the decentralised system, which is distributed to two groups of institutions, the central institutions and the regional bodies. The great value and importance of this distinction are that regional bodies are given decisive responsibility for all decisions taken within their regional territorial competence. In that sense, therefore, it becomes apparent that the constitutional legislature follows the principle of proximity, that is to say, that principle which requires that decisions concerning the manager be taken on those administrative authorities which are as close as possible to the seat of economic, social and family affairs, that is to say, at the place where they reside. And with the other aspect, which also defines and regulates this provision, there is a fully formulated principle of subsidiarity. Because the central organs are limited by this provision only in the general guidelines, general coordination and control of legality. In this respect, I do not think there is any need to be any further clarification, especially since the last paragraph of this provision gives the State and the regulatory authority the right to take measures in favour of islands and the development of mountainous and inappropriate areas with a spirit of proportionality. Indeed, it was very important for our colleague Mr Ypsilanti to speak. I think it is an effort that has been made and we should take it out. Insularity is one of the characteristics of our country that gives it great breath and great dynamism. Because on this island one of the largest and glorious chapters of our history, which begins with the struggle for independence, in which the seafarers took the lead, that is, those who are expelled and prosecuted from these regions, are reaching the current economic development of the place. You have heard from the lips of our Prime Minister the donation that the Union of Shipowners has agreed to give to help us in the fight we are doing to deal with the refugee problem. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I therefore believe that in this respect, there is no need for any additions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be there in two minutes, Mr. President. I have to conclude by saying that the 1975 Constitution is the constitution that, for the first time, for the first time, the institution of local government, not just completes it, but introduces it as one of the roots of democracy on which all the dynamics of society are based, with fantasy and struggling. During the post-population period, it is well known how strong this institution has been, so that it has come to development initiatives that we are all seeing throughout Greece and that we are enthusiastically experimenting in the area of social solidarity, in the area of production, in the field of development, in sport and in culture. So we have nothing to add here, because this particular provision is a success of it and it works. So why should we give her some specific restraining evidence or alter her... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. So, both in terms of highlighting the principles and in terms of protecting this acquis which local government has to take - and in this direction, the joint legislator, in which he has a great deal of work to do and we must all encourage the government and demand, if necessary and with our questions and our interventions, that there be a greater transfer of powers to local government - a distinction should finally be abolished between this culture which survives as a coordinator of state administration in the seven decentralised state and administrative regions. It has nothing to do with only two responsibilities, namely the protection of forests and the protection of the environment, and the thirteen self-government regions can respond in the best way - and even more so - to this work. That is why I think it is our duty to encourage and direct our efforts in this direction to take initiatives by the joint legislator. The framework exists. So there's no question of reviewing it. In conclusion, I would like to thank, as the general rapporteur of the majority, the rapporteurs of the other parties, the special rapporteurs, all the Members who participated in the committee and all the colleagues who have actually given us samples of a high level of parliamentary speech all these days from the Step of this House. They deserve congratulations to everyone. I believe that this particular review will leave a strong historical footprint, because it has started cowardly or, at least, started with a great proposal. Subsequently, there were restrictive perceptions that shrank this project. But it now ends up pointing out nine points, which will be of great importance to the functioning of the Constitution and the directions produced by these regulations. Literally, you will allow me to prioritise as a greater institutional conquest, the agreement - which I believe will eventually happen, because all parties have now come to an agreement - to facilitate the vote of the Greeks who live off the ground. It is indeed a great honour for this Review that it manages to make it reality after so many decades and after so many criticisms we have received, because we are still alone, Azerbaijan, Malta, Armenia, Saint Marino, not to recognise and make this right easier. At the very least, after the current constitution has come into force, there will be this very great conquest of democracy, it is a great, great honour, which we have conquered with our struggle for democratic dialogue, which in the end seems to have yielded. In addition, the amendment, ladies and gentlemen, of Article 86 is a great institutional achievement. It is, in fact, an attempt that has been made and achieved, by the removal and abolition of this shamefulness - I will say this with courage and courage - a depreciation period which was literally blocking. That's the reason. Admit it! All those who committed crimes as a juror in the performance of their duties - Ministers, State Secretarys or anyone else - go, return to the 'white' and white society. That was, in fact, a shame, which we corrected, which we have now given to the people as a new constitutional rate, so that there is equal treatment for full members of the Ministers and the State Secretarys and members of the government towards criminal law. The fact that we have not reached the point of abolishing both paragraph 1 or completely abolishing the provision of Article 86, obviously because none of the parties who had the right to the proposal did so. We should not now talk about the interpretative statement, when we all agree that the House should deal with exclusive judicial and exceptional jurisdiction, the question of criminal prosecution against the ministers and the State Secretarys of criminal offences they commit in the performance of their duties. But also in favour of democracy is the provision of Article 68(2), where, for the first time in our constitutional history, the minority will have the right, at its request, to set up committees of inquiry. This is a great democratic conquest. Don't limit it. Some people don't want to recognize it. They're good. The same is the reversal of the rule resulting from Rule 62 on the immunity of Members. Until this revision of the rule, as emerged from the wording of that provision, was to reject all requests made by the public prosecutor, other than those which have the limits and conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure. But today the rule is changing. The rule is that all applications for immunity are rejected, unless they are of direct relevance to the Members' parliamentary duties, as is the case with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. I think, therefore, that those of us who have participated must be - and I heard it from the lips of many colleagues - proud, because we have been historically given the opportunity to participate in such a great project of the Hellenic Republic. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. Mr Katrugalos has the floor as the rapporteur-general from the point of view of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u76	Do you know anything I don't know, Mr. President? You announced me as the general rapporteur for the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u77	I'm sorry, Mr. Catrugale. Let me make it right. Mr Katrugalos has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA. Mr. Catrugale, will you use all the time of yesterday's dentistry? I'm asking you, to determine the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u78	Maybe I'll leave a little time to be more detailed when the provision of Article 54 comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u79	Good. Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end as far as we are concerned. On Monday, of course, we will have the Heads' speeches. Now is the time to make a comprehensive review of the procedure. I have heard from many colleagues, from all the wings, talking about a lost opportunity to review. I think this criticism is too much. Wrong - not even too much - I would describe the criticism that the Review began cowardly. What's the truth? And we and the New Democracy have tabled dozens of proposals for revision. Most of these proposals were opposed to political and ideological content, they were mutually exclusive. For example, New Democracy on the critical issue - which I think is the key of the days - will generally be the perception of the leading economy towards politics, the policies of neoliberalism, and has put forward proposals that strengthen this trend. He proposed that the principle of ‘absolutely undistorted competition’ be introduced in Article 106. He proposed that the ‘golden rule’ should be incorporated into the Constitution for deficits. We have tabled proposals in the opposite direction, namely to exclude from privatisation basic common goods, to protect social achievements and, indeed, to strengthen the regulatory density and the possibility of conducting the relevant constitutional arrangements. It is clear that there could not be any consensus on this matter. And not just that. The association of power in this great conflict, which continues in the political field, has not yet been definitively captured. For this reason, it could not be seen as institutions at the level of the Constitution. I repeat, the Constitution wants only those issues that have been resolved at the level of society through constitutional revision to be reflected in the Constitution. That is precisely why he seeks lasting consent. And that is precisely why it was out of constitutional sense that the original proposal by the Head of New Democracy to vote with a hundred or eighty votes or more of what we want to change, and the next Parliament, this House, to find it. This was not just a practicing proposal. It was an unconstitutional proposal, precisely because it did not reflect the need for lasting consensus. There have therefore been dozens of constitutional proposals which have not ended up. Therefore, the institutional footprint of the Review will not be too wide, nor too deep. However, I think it will be positive, especially if, at the last minute, we can agree on what we should not disagree on, because it is now out of political conflict. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this many times: it is not possible for modern European legal culture to refuse to guarantee discrimination on grounds of sex or sexual orientation. It's out of the question, now, of political conflict. Everyone accepts it. You yourself have voted indirectly when you ratified the Treaty of Lisbon and the incorporation of the Social Rights Charter. It is a retrograde, on your part, political choice - in fact not even neo-conservative, but a reactionary option - not to accept a solved subject at both the level and the social consciousness and European legal culture. Secondly, there should be agreement on this, and it is about protecting the price of the political world. Mr Javarras rightly said that it was a shameful deadline. Remind me when he entered the Constitution? The 2001 Review. And if we are to rectify this insult to the principles of equality established by the very short amortization deadline and show the citizens that we do not want to protect the prosperous politicians, and if we all admit that this is a good thing, what we did for the future should not pursue for the past, so that we do not give the impression that we want to cover up the criminal responsibilities of politicians who were prosperous and put hands on honey? The interpretative statement comes precisely to serve this purpose with a constitutional, not just a necessary solution, in my view. As to the logic of our proposal, he argued yesterday in a similar way, if not in a identical direction, Mr Kastanides. That is why I applauded his speech. What's our main argument? It is not linked to the exercise of the functions, it has been added by Mr Kastanidis, it is not closely linked to the exercise of public authority to a number of offences primarily involving bribery, passive bribery, and that is why they do not fall within the regulatory scope of Article 86. I was also asked by Mr Javarras today and by Mr Loverdos yesterday how it is possible to claim this and, indeed, in his renowned form - that which I made in order to be able to understand from the non-legislatives - with the rhetoric question whether it is in the Minister's job description of bribery. In my reply another question was raised: is the Minister's job description an infringement of duty or - as Mr Ploris said - infidelity? The answer is simple. The breach of a duty by definition requires the exercise of functions, by definition linked to the exercise of public authority. It is a diversion, it is an illegal and infringing behaviour, but it is, no doubt, a matter of the Minister's duties. On the contrary, bribery - I tried to answer a question you raised yesterday - is outside the exercise of public authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u81	It's a crime.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u82	That is why I applauded yesterday the similar position, as I understood it, on the issue of Mr Kastanidis. It's a crime outside the scope of Article 86.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u83	You didn't understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u84	As I understand it. There is no doubt that your analysis, from the point of view of criminal law, Mr Javarra, of Article 235 and of criminal law is correct. You can't commit the offense of passive bribery if you're not an employee. Others, however, are the logic of the Criminal Code and others are the logic of the Constitution. The Constitution safeguards the guarantees of Article 86 as an institutional guarantee for the office of the Minister. Here too, the criterion is not thecriterion of the Criminal Code, but whether it is closely linked to the exercise of public authority by the Minister or not. I think, however, that the substance is one. We had the opportunity - and we still have it by Monday - to prove that we are not only resolving this issue for the future, as you quite rightly said, which was shameful for our political system, but also for the past. Unless we want to repeat this well-known prayer of St Augustine, "God, make me pure, but not yet." We are only interested in the future and not in the past in what will happen. We do not want there to be 'golden parachutes' from which will be protected by those of the politicians who have outlawed the future by way of limitation. And that is something that all sides of the Chamber should have as a given. There were three other cases where it was stated that there would be consensus: Article 21, Article 73 and Article 54. With regard to Article 21, there has been an attempt to have a concrete wording. The wording, which was mainly put forward by the General rapporteur of the CINAAL, to be formed as a common site, took into account our own proposals on the need to ensure a decent standard of living.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u85	We agreed with your wording.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u86	Yeah, that's what I'm saying. I'm reading it now. I know you agreed on our wording. I'm just repeating the story. We have therefore reached a proposal in which the 'Policy guarantees a decent standard of living for all, as well as universal access to social services and social goods'. We have not received an answer from the New Democracy, as we have also not yet seen its final wording.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u87	It'll be distributed to you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u88	Deal. I am simply saying that, on your side, Mr Javarra, there has been cooperation from this point of view, and on the part of Mr Stylianides, there have been common places. However, I think - not from you personally, I repeat, but from another decision centre in your party - a fearful search for consensus. I would also like to point out, above all in a positive way, to exclude you and to congratulate you on your mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u89	It's a constant struggle of understanding. Mr. Theodorikos was constantly in touch.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u90	We agree, but you seem to have more difficulty in consulting each other than with us on the other proposals. The same happened with Article 73 on the legislative initiative. We're waiting there, too. In Rule 54 we will be placed - and we will be responsible - on the basis of the criteria that we have set before the committee. Today, I think that, for island and mountain regions, the need to specialise the provision also arises from the fact that there are voices from your own party. Mr Ypsilantis advocates the need to tighten up the regulatory commitment. I think it was one of the points that, in fact, is not in the field of intensity of an ideological conflict and could be regulated. On the matter of the independent authorities, there is also a consensus. We would like to call on you - and to KINAAL is aimed at this call - to accept three fifths as the last point of ending the minimum majority, but to start the effort from four fifths. In other words, there should be an attempt to extend the mandate of the independent authorities for an eight-month period, and then, as a multiimum refugium, three fifths should be allowed for an eight-month extension of the term of office of the independent authorities. I think you will agree, too, that this is how the status of the independent authorities is strengthened, since our objective remains high. The objective of unanimity, obviously, as proved by reality, cannot be achieved. On the subject, now, of local government, there is indeed a number of different, political and ideological issues. First of all, we want the analogue system, which we consider to be the most democratic, the closest to reflecting the true will of citizens, to have constitutional guarantees in local government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u91	Mr Colleague, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I'm going to have to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured to the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall, twenty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the 48th Elementary School of Patras. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Go on, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u92	Welcome for me, too. The second point which divides us - it should not, but it has been proved in fact that it separates us - is that we believe that they should have constitutional assurances already provided for the possibility of referendums and, more generally, institutions of direct democracy at the level of self-government. And especially at the level of self-government, which is closer to the citizen than the central government, there should be provision for this. Finally, we propose something that applies to most European countries and is an important factor in the integration of migrants, to be able... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, please listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u93	Excuse me, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u94	You know, it's the last day today, and there's talk of shocks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u95	Yes, of course, to God. The only reason I have made this observation is because I want, at the moment, in the context of our dialogue, to ask you to see whether there is, at least in the last minute, a possibility of convergence in certain things. In particular, I am not addressing you so much, Mr Javarra, because in this respect you have a different position, as in the Change Movement and the other opposition parties. What we propose from things and from the point of view of politics, the possibilities to search common sites are more with this wing than with your own, New Democracy, since of course...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u96	State-lawed makes sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u97	Obviously. I say, therefore, that we are proposing - as was the case in a law drawn up by Mr Raguss, but when he was a member of the PASOK government, but unfortunately this provision was considered to be unconstitutional by the Council of State - to establish the right of immigrants to participate in local elections, since they have been in place for a period of five years, as provided for by the law, in Greece and, obviously, their situation is legal. That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u98	That is correct, but you have put it together with other issues, Mr Colleague, and we cannot vote on it. You can tell.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u99	It cannot stand out because it has obviously been voted on by the Proposing House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, may I make an intervention if my colleague so permits?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u101	I would be happy if the President were allowed to do so. I'm looking for the conversation, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u102	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u103	Mr Colleagues, on Rule 102 which we are debating, you can do, in the context of the proposal that we have received from the House, a division of the regulatory units: in one, you can include the others, for conventions, etc., and in the second, you can say that, with which we agree. That's how we're gonna vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u104	We are agreed, but you are asking us to give up another piece, which has an organic link to our proposal and which is law-abiding. In other words, the local referendums are already fair in terms of the level of the common legislature and we call for constitutional safeguards to be guaranteed. I cannot imagine the contrast of substance that you can have. Anyway. The last point I want to make is the question of military judges. There is, indeed, a consensus in the Chamber. I think you should accept what the military judges themselves demand - and it makes sense - that the military courts are, not by a majority, but exclusively, judges. We have no reason to break down the anticipation of the constitution, leaving it in the Chair of the military. At the last point I would like the attention of the whole Chamber. It is one of the issues that I think we can discuss at the meeting we will have with the Scientific Service of the Parliament. I had already supported the committee of the proposed first revised Parliament and had agreed with other colleagues, with more than they had done - precisely because they are not here today - Evangelos Venizelos, an attempt to be captured as an article in the Constitution in 114. It is precisely because renumbering the articles is not an intervention in the regulatory content of the Constitution, if there is agreement from all sides - and I want you all to be placed on it - it is something that can be established. We do not alter the regulatory nature of the Constitution. We move on to renumber the transitional provisions in such a way that the very important provision for the patriotism of the Greeks again takes the historic position of Article 114. That's not a composer. It is a strong political symbolism of the continuity of political history and especially of what has always been the characteristic of our constitutional patriotism, that we have a duty to comply with the Constitution and the laws, but the laws that are in line with the Constitution and that we have the right to resist anyone who tries to destroy democracy and rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, too, Mr. Katrugalo. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the general rapporteur for the majority, Mr Constantine Javarra, submitted for the Minutes the proposal of the New Democracy to the IGC for the final wording of the revised provisions, which were laid down following the debate and decision taken by Parliament. I would ask everyone to be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u106	Please the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech I will also include what the Bureau was kind enough to give the rapporteurs yesterday, the two-minute, three-minute, in other words, the placement on Article 54(4), which I am pressing for two days now. I will also make a reference to what Mr Katrugalos, the general rapporteur of the Officerate-General for Article 86, has said today. I heard yesterday - I think - 90% of the SYRIZA Members' seats in relation to Rule 86 and my mind came - not to misunderstand - what the people say, 'on the deaf door as you want to stink', which, however, does not apply here. At the demagogue's door as long as you want a prick! That's what's happening today! I cannot repeat what I said yesterday, of course. I can, however, ask for a second time, because my colleague Mr Katrugalos has been kind enough to answer some of the questions raised by the House, from New Democracy, but he did not answer my questions. I didn't turn this into a theory. For the theory, I was placed, with regard to some basic principles yesterday, Mr Kamines was placed during the evening, Mr Kastanides, my other colleagues. I was very clear. Based on the methodology of distinguishing the purely governmental actions of a executive of his executive power and of his bribery, who went to present it - and all SYRIZA followed it - "is it in the duty of the Minister to take them?" I asked very specific questions based on SYRIZA's practice. Dear colleague, is it the Minister's duty to intercept telephone transactions? That is what you voted on yourself. Whatever it is! Is it the Minister's duty to slander defamatoryly? Yes, that is what you yourself voted for, the old majority of SYRIZA - ANEL and the SYRIZA minority on two applications for waiver of immunity for the same person a few weeks ago. So the demagogy finds a wall somewhere, and the wall is our arguments. No matter how many of you call out, trying to fish in the bluish waters, they don't fish in the bluish waters, they fish in the gull and there they don't. And I would like, Mr President, because we have conquered since 2018 - not now - the possibility of discussing, in spite of all the tensions, why you did not propose the revision of Article 86(1), which provides for the so-called'minds of the Ministers'. Why didn't you put it there and go into an interpretative statement? Do you care about the past? In the past, you cannot reach any point, it stops you from Article 7(1) of the Constitution, and the practice and case law, of course, of decades of all the countries of Europe. And in my question, 'What constitutional provision would cover you if your interpretative statement, the new or the old?' You said to me 'the new one'. No, you're wrong, and you know it, your old thing is about you, so you're demagoging. Only here we know that and we will oppose it. And if you want to say something while I speak, Mr. Catrugale, I am completely available. We conquered this and I don't want to ruin it. If you want to tell me something now, I accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u108	I'm going to ask you questions, but I want you to develop all your arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u109	All right, all right. This morning, the Prime Minister reiterated to you what he told us in the Constitutional Review Committee by letter the last day and went to blow the session - our temperate theories of the interpretative statement, these polluting arguments. Repeat, fisherman in the gutter. And I compare - and allow me to do this - as an opposition style, but also as an anti-political spirit the intervention of Mrs Gennamata on the problem of immigration that burns Greece, all Greece, all Greeks, all Greeks, and all Greeks, and your tactics, "did, take something from division, especially if people don't understand what you say or be lured from naive demagogues". We showed today with the first question of the Movement of Change, of Mrs. Gennimata to the Prime Minister that our minds do not have it in the between us. Our minds have it in Greek society and in its problems. When matters of moral order come, we set an example in the House and gave it to me, while when the real questions come to Parliament and not to theory, you hide behind the provisions of immunity of Ministers and Members of Parliament. Now for 54(4), ladies and gentlemen, the first time has happened to me - I am present in three revisions - to revise 54(4) of the Constitution - namely - and to take into account the law that will be passed as a draft, after the Constitution is passed and not the constitutional provision. In other words, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I do not know whether you have been doing lasting work or whether there is a centre outside the House that decides to do that. I know, however, that the phrase "legislate through the Constitution" is photographed in your practice. You bring us a provision here which does not allow us to penetrate its meanings, and I have two general things to say: firstly, that we are legislating by the Constitution, secondly, that the constitutional regulation of 54 paragraph 4 is detailed. Why is she analytic? Why do you want to prevent the contradictions of the law which, under pressure from other parties, you have accepted to be included in the text of the law, and thus through the new constitutional provision, the realisation of the legislation by the Constitution is carried out. And instead of many, I would like to include a political criticism. So finally, as the provision and law form, Greeks and Greeks are voting outside Greece, but they are voting for a roll-call vote that may also have one of their own and may also have him in an election position, since there is no cross. What's that? You are putting us under dilemma, and we should like to vote on this, and that is why we should prefer something which is bad instead of nothing. That's where we're going. In the face of nothing, let's vote on this. The people say it otherwise, it is not the Step of the House that is appropriate to say what it says. I should now like to begin - in order to prevent it - by thanking Mr Javara, the general rapporteur for the majority, who really fought with his positions, his nobility, Mr Katrugalos, the general rapporteur for the Staff Regulations, who was very creative and in many respects, especially in the matter of the rule of law, we have been associated, the general rapporteur of the Communist Party, Mr Yiannis Giokas - with 54(4), who I know that some of these arrangements are a product of his own political positions - with Mr Konstantinos Hetas from the Greek Solution, who accompanied his speeches with proposals, as well as with Angeliki Adamopoulos from Mera25, which was also very useful to the Commission and plenary. However, as a last word I would like to repeat what I and Mr Kamine have said in our introductory speeches, what Mr Venizelos said in an interview with Athanasios Ellis on the occasion of the 'THESSALONIKI SUMIT' a few days ago, and today Antonis Manitakis, with his document on 'NEA', which describes today's Review - if I remember correctly the term - anaemic, indifferent or like this. We are in the last section, our role as rapporteurs is being exhausted, and I would like to start creatively from the development of the positions of the Change Movement for Article 96(5) of the Constitution on military justice, which we are dealing with as part of Greek justice, and on this basis we will vote for the revision of this article. I have done, ladies and gentlemen, an extensive reference to this provision in the committee of the House proposed, but I will repeat almost everything I have said there, because some people and others - perhaps even in this Chamber - when they listen to the term'strategory', are in association with today's reality. With the members and officials of the military courts, I am associated with personal and political experiences that come from the past. When I entered the Law School of Aristotle University of Thessaloniki in 1973, I was a student with the students of the Military College of Officials, the SAS. When the junta fell, for these students a bad climate was created, because it was unjustly called for responsibility for the former democracies in Greece. The more you knew these people, however, the democratic belief of their majority, which led me and other politically-occupied students in law to come closer to them, to support them and to contribute to this bad climate gradually disappearing, to change. So we connected - and I was personally associated with it - with many students of the SAA and later in 2001, on the occasion of the revision of the Constitution, I also drafted an opinion in the light of the Review, the main point of which is what it is today, that the military are judges in this regard and have all the guarantees of the Constitution. Since Article 96(5) of the Constitution is revised, by defining that the judges have all the guarantees of personal and operational independence laid down in the Constitution for other judicial officers, we must make the proposal of the New Democracy clearer and remove the reference to Article 87(1). Because the Constitution also refers to Article 87(1) and then to all provisions guaranteeing the independence of these judges. This is a contradiction on which case-law is based. Article 87(1) must be removed. Three words are to remove. Furthermore, in the last subparagraph of the addition of the New Democracy, the law specialising in Article 96(5) could also be added to be adopted within one year of the date on which the Revision of the Constitution is to be published in the FEO. Suffice it to remind people and tell others that in 1975 when this arrangement was passed it provided for a common law, which was introduced twenty years later. We're changing the Constitution now. If, however, the joint legislator is late to adapt, generations are lost. It's not right. And now, in view of the risk of the case-law of the ECHR, which arises from the wording of the first subparagraph of Article 96(5), that military courts are composed by a majority of military judges, so the minority is composed of military judges - here it must be pointed out that the soldiers are military, joining the military hierarchy and therefore cannot enjoy full personal and operational independence - it seems to me preferable to make the following distinction, re-drafting Article 96(5) as follows: ‘Law defines exactly where civilian judges are permitted.’ I think that this regulation adopted in the House by two hundred and thirty-seven Members must be voted on by all of us, but it must also have these improvements. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] In Article 101a now. Two hundred and thirty-two Members of the previous parliament voted for it. The position of the Change Movement, as well as my personal position, as regards the nature, nature and necessity of the independent authorities, which are, in fact, independent administrative authorities, summarized in the following: the independent authorities are necessary to control and supervise activities of the managers with a particularly sensitive character - not exclusively - respect for fundamental rights, but also the caselaw that the state function suffers from impartiality and lack of competence and therefore the invention of other authorities - and in this case - or bodies or regulatory authorities which are outside the hierarchy. Our proposals for the revision of 101A are three: to limit the joint legislator to setting up independent authorities. To remain four-fifths in the Conference of Presidents in order to make their members' choice. Proposing direct parliamentary scrutiny. I'm starting with the last one. Now we are checking the authorities as a parliament through the reports they submit and which are being discussed in the relevant committees or by asking the relevant Minister, who usually tells us 'question the authority'. Today control is regulated by 138A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and we need to change it, after we have foreseen in the Constitution that the five principles, the ones provided for by the Constitution, the National Council for Broadcasting. the Personal Data Protection Authority, the Citizens' Consultant, the Telecommunications Privacy Authority, the AACC can control them directly. Our second intervention: Article 101a stipulates that the ability of the joint legislator to establish such principles is not unlimited. They are a new form of organisation and exercise of public authority, but excessive recourse to them suggests the bankruptcy of our administrative system and, by extension, the democratic nature of our civilisation. I can't forget a member of a government earlier tell me that this is the situation in the field of arbitration so that he was thinking about setting up an independent authority. Because I have faced this scepticism, I regretted it since it was founded - life is more inventive than us - an independent authority for professional sport. If that's possible! Greece now also has thirty such independent authorities. Weakness and fear of the executive to carry out its duties indicate the inflationary applications of the authorities in 101A. Two recent experiences with two retired judges are directly referring to the risk that all of us are threatening to operate through them. The establishment of independent authorities should therefore be restricted, and this should be provided for in 101A. Finally, there are, ladies and gentlemen, five of these thirty-one authorities who are fleeing the criticism I have just given: the Competition Committee, the National Telecommunications and Post Commission, the Regulatory Authority for Energy, the Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts and the Securities and Market Commission. Why not add an interpretative statement to 101A whereby all of these five authorities enjoy not only the independence guarantees but also the special guarantees which the Constitution contains for the functioning of the five already constitutionalised authorities? I have lived - to close this section - on the experience of the PSE as a member of the Conference of Presidents. It was not possible to gather four fifths. But after a struggle we have succeeded and appointed - the majorities have been found - under the chairmanship of the PSE by Mr Athanasios Koutrumanos. A lot of trouble, a lot of conflict, but the solution was finally found. We want this difficulty to remain. Mr President, I can have two more minutes to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u110	Allow me to interrupt so that you can...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Catrugale, what exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, I was asked by the rapporteur a question. I had reserved myself to place myself in total on his speech, because a dialogue beforehand. Towards the end, because we are trying to find out where each party is, we have accepted this economic process, if you allow it too, otherwise I will speak in my position after Article 54.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u113	I absolutely do, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u114	I'm addressing the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Catrugale, should we leave it for later, so that the process can proceed? You will be able to place yourself as you have said. Go on, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u116	I have to refer only to certain proposals which we reject and to one that we accept. We are negative in Article 101(1) to provide by law for a system of regional central government - a reduction provision. But whatever law we are voting on, the lawmaker understands it as a system. Good or bad, system, life will prove. What does it matter to a constitutional provision in this regard? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Two proposals by Members of Parliament SYRIZA and ANEL are before us, for Rule 101(3) and (4) and add an interpretative statement. We are not saying no, but their addition, since the case law of the courts - Greek and European - have covered matters concerning the presumption of competence in favour of the TBRs, on the basis of the principles of proximity and subsidiarity. Now I do not think that we should be concerned about the fact that Article 101(4) and the interpretative statement will not be accepted. As far as islands are concerned, we have already covered this issue. A further addition is proposed, and we are not concerned that it will not be accepted, since the matter has been covered. I also told Mr Katrugalo that I had interrupted and accepted the Bureau to interrupt him, Mr President, that in Rule 102 with what they propose about local referendums, simple analogues, etc. We say no about the local referendums. TAs are the steppingstone of the administration of the country, the administrative system: Central Government, from centralised state, regions and local government, municipalities. It is not right, therefore, to 'pay' further the administration of the country. He's got his problems with the OTA institution! But we have made a proposal in Article 102(2) to add the municipal and regional right to exercise a legislative initiative - which I think is right - under the conditions laid down by the law. Today's majority does not want it, but this proposal has been tabled. We agree with SYRIZA's proposal, however, if it was contained in a separate verse, as regards the vote on foreigners for Ottawa, if they live here and have certain conditions of residence for many years in the country, etc. I'm closing down with reference to the repealed provisions. I don't have time to report them. I have mentioned them all to the committee for the revision of the constitution. Mr President, I have proposed there that in two cases for three paragraphs in Articles 114 and 115, instead of their complete abolition, when it comes to matters whose regulatory power has expired, we should also abolish them. However, the majority added some modifications that were out of meaning. Fortunately, he understood it, but after the relevant report has been formulated. I pointed it out. And the President of Parliament, Mr Tassoulos, in his introductory position here, proposed to overlook the prediction of the report and to consider that the proposal that concerns everyone is for the abolition of both Articles 114 and 115 in whole. My last sentence. Mr. Catrugale, we agree. Mr President, they are proposing that the last part of the Constitution be renumbered by removing deregulation, but also by condensing some, so as to end up in Article 114 as an article which has a symbolic and historical significance. It's not an anti-constitutional reform. We have the possibility, we do not touch provisions, contents, the substance. We only renumber to have 114 articles in our Constitution. I think it is an extremely good proposal from the point of view of political and democratic symbolism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u117	We continue with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Because I have remained as speaker since yesterday's debate, I would like to use a little bit of time, including yesterday's sitting. After all, I will speak much less than the sum of the two years, yesterday and today. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to reiterate the view of the Communist Party of Greece on the revision of Articles 62 and 86 of the Constitution and on the relevant debate caused by it. In our opinion, it serves the eternal effort to restore the urban political system, which ensures that it is "makered" often densely so that it hides its true anti-popular face. This time, the political "lifting" attempted by the Constitutional Review, focuses mainly on changing the constitutional provision on responsibility for Ministers, the known Article 86, which can be improved, but remains its essence. We are clear here about the position of the Communist Party of Greece on this article. The position of the JRC is the complete abolition of this article, because it does not have any work but it does not have any work to be done by the House to be a pre-reviewing committee, to be a court, to regulate all these issues, which must finally be taken away from Parliament at some point and the Ministers must be controlled and accountable for justice, just as every Greek citizen and, if you want, even more stringent than the ordinary citizen. Because, you know, the mere worker, the farmer, the professional chasing the flea-frame and having a minister who handles very serious issues, has immunity and cannot justice refer him to the court, if necessary, because he has special criminal treatment. Because it is specific criminal treatment, ladies and gentlemen, of the Ministers, that a preliminary examination should be carried out by the House and not by the Prosecutor, such as for all other Greek citizens. It is special criminal treatment that this preliminary examination of the Ministers should be carried out by a committee composed of MPs, and for ordinary citizens it is carried out by a court with the assistance of the police. It is a special penal treatment for the ministers that the ministers are prosecuted by a decision of the House and not by the prosecutor, as is the case for ordinary citizens. And, of course, it is special penal treatment that the House can, by its decision, withdraw or suspend the prosecution of Ministers, which is not the case for ordinary citizens, and, of course, for cases relating to criminal liability of Ministers not to be dealt with by the ordinary criminal courts, depending on the gravity of the act, as is the case with ordinary citizens, but to be brought by the special court. This is all a special, special criminal treatment of the ministers. And all this with the proposed Review remains, both responsible for SYRIZA and the New Democracy. Eventually, that's why it's not enough to remove the depreciation deadline. In spite of the fact that this depreciation deadline is being abolished, that is to say, the matter of limitation - and we welcome it being abolished with both hands - the substance of the provision on special treatment, as we have said, is, unfortunately, still a criminal treatment of the ministers. The New Democracy and SYRIZA's justification for this choice is interesting here. The New Democracy from this step forward claimed that this, the special criminal treatment of the ministers, is imposed by the seriousness of ministerial duties. You know, however, this directly contradicts the reason that it has led to this review and it could well work and act more strongly as an argument for the abolition of Article 86, which is completely complete. SYRIZA is now trying to hide his complete turn on the subject. Previously, four and five years ago, SYRIZA spoke about the total abolition of Article 86 and now merely adds an interpretative statement on the non-deleting of ministerial offences, which, SYRIZA says, presupposes the existence of the relevant article, so why not abolish it. We think that this legal argument is unscathed. A transitional provision with the same content of the interpretative declaration also ensures that Article 86 is abolished and that there is no limitation. But SYRIZA's political argument is even more revealing. From where SYRIZA asked for the abolition of Article 86 a few years ago now, he is calling for this article to remain, because it is, he says, a filter of protection for the Ministers against pressure and interference in the legitimate exercise of their duties. Now, because one needs protection for the legitimate exercise of his duties, this has not been clarified. Let's go a little bit on today's debate, and I'm starting with Article 96. Although we have no illusions - we do not belong to this club - about the mission and the role of justice in the urban state, we nonetheless consider that there is room for modernisation and improvements in the functioning and administration of justice. That is why our party, when the Constitutional Review began and tabled its proposals at that time, included those proposals and those relating to justice. The culmination of these proposals is that the appointment of the Head of Justice by the respective government, which - here Is heard - of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the three Supreme Courts, the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, the General Commissioner of the Audit Conference and the General Commissioner of the Administrative Courts, should finally be stopped. Of course, among our proposals it was that the leadership of justice should in any case be elected by a broader elite. We have also tabled the proposal in this constitutional revision to abolish the relevant constitutional provision - unacceptable, in our opinion - which provides for intervention, that is, the Minister of Justice in question, both in the promotions of judges and in their possible disciplinary actions. At some point all this must be stopped and abolished. Of course, all of this has been tacitly rejected by both the New Democracy and SYRIZA, simply revealing their disobedient hypocrisy when each other is accused of intervening on either side in justice. However, there is something else, you know, and this is not only the small end-of-life value of words of independence of justice, but also the other great things that are often heard here in the House about the differences of powers since, according to the Constitution itself, these three powers are ultimately not divided between them and with Chinese walls. Finally, we called for the abolition of military justice and the arrest of the military offences by the ordinary criminal courts. We do not understand and certainly do not agree with the desirability of the existence and functioning of the barracks, the tactics and the emergency services, both in the present and in any circumstances. Besides, in popular conscience, the militia, you know, wake up very bad memories, since they are connected to the darkest pages of Greek history, the most brutal persecutions and mass executions of popular fighters. We shall now go to Rule 101, which refers to the so-called independent authorities. Here too, the proposals from the New Democracy and SYRIZA are moving in the same direction to strengthen the role of these independent authorities, restore their prestige and, in short, upgrade overall. And that, you know, is not a symptom at all. It is because of the nature and role of these so-called independent authorities, that is to say, acting as instruments for legitimising the power and the interests of capital. That is precisely why they are being adopted and operated. In the end, however much as these independent authorities, supposedly, are modernising, however much as they attempt to do with SYRIZA's proposals, especially those independent authorities, to appear as accountants in society, ultimately the mission and role of these authorities is determined by the framework within which they are established and operated. And this framework is beyond the limits of the sovereign civil state policy. That is why these so-called independent administrative authorities, both the five constitutionally guaranteed and the others, which are constantly multiplying, are only temptation to implement the dominant policy and control mechanisms, but not from the point of view of the people's interests, but from the point of view of the capital's interests, as wheelmen and arbitrators of conflicting business interests. It is no accident and we need to remind ourselves in which areas the operation of such independent administrative authorities has started. They first appeared in those sectors of finance where the markets were released from the state's bonds, as they were saying, were privatised, namely, in the field of telecommunications, energy, ports, just to play the role of regulator and the role of arbitrator in sharing the "piet" of the profits of privatizations that started in these sectors since then. As for the other independent administrative authorities that are now growing like mushrooms and which are also relevant in critical areas of social life, it is worth seeing certain stigmas. Let's start with the Privacy Authority. With the recent bill passed last September, which was passed both by New Democracy and by SYRIZA, the institutional framework for the Personal Data Protection Authority was redefined. The "Protection" within many introductory forms. Do you know why? What happened to this frame? What does this framework provide for? Neither too little nor much, according to the law anymore, allows the processing of personal data not only by state but by private bodies, by opening up a dangerous road that can lead to a new system of more up-graded enclaves by collecting and exchanging data on politics, say, opinions, trade union activities and organisation and so much so annoying about the system and the power of capital. This is the legal framework that the Independent Privacy Authority will supervise and verify its application. Let us go to another committee which has a direct relationship with the workers. Fifteen months are unpaid those workers at Rio's casino in Patras. The employer owes them 15 months' time, despite the fact that there are parallel judicial decisions which justify these workers. So what did these workers do? Last May they appealed to such an independent administrative authority in the Committee on the Supervision and Control of Games. Indeed, according to the law, this committee would have to make a decision within sixty days in two months. This decision should have been made by the end of July at the latest. November we have and the decision has not yet been taken by this independent authority. What should these workers and us and everyone think about the independence of this principle? Finally, I should like to refer to the so-called Competition Committee, which was indeed very long-standing in the previous period, that is to say, the committee which takes care of the competitiveness of business groups. Has this Competition Committee ever come to an end to the spread of unemployment and poverty? Has the workers in our country been prevented from impoverishing, all that the worker lives today, but also the workers of all the countries of the European Union? No, of course not. After all, this competitiveness serves, and for this competitiveness, labour rights are being smashed. Does it have the name 'Competition Committee'? They do not, however, have any connection with the concerns, the concerns of the people, but they are firmly serving the designs and strategy of the system. What is, let's say - by closing - the Independent Public Income Authority despite the firm and unscathed hand of the state tax evacuation mechanism that manages and implements the tax raid against the people's strata? As a party, we are arguing with these committees, and we are calling for the abolition of the specific article which prescribes these so-called independent administrative authorities. I would like to say a few words about Article 102 on local government. It's recommended that local folk assemblies and local referendums should be introduced, so I can start from here. However, objectively, you know that all of this within the framework of the sovereign policy - whose direction does not change despite the rotation of governments, because of the general strategy of the European Union - by exploiting also the characteristics of the proximity and subsidiarity of local self-government, the terminologies being passed directly from the European Union, can only operate - local people's assemblies, local referendums - as substitutes for popular participation, as levers of integration and popular subordination. And, of course, little - to nothing at all - they have a movement of initiatives from the bottom, such as people, to say, committees which, through their racing activities, have helped, among other things, many peoples towards the auctions or the reconnection of their electricity. With regard to local referendums, we think that the same applies to national referendums. So, who's the one asking the question? How does the question arise? These are key issues. In what circumstances will these referendums take place? Their effect is not binding. I'm talking about locals. Are you going to tell me about the nationals? We all saw and lived what happened. Why shouldn't it be binding? Here, you know, a typical example from Thessaloniki in the 2014 referendum on privatization of HSY, an informal referendum, but with very large popular participation, the result of which the sovereign policy finally managed to assimilate it, since the question put to the people of the city at the time was not affected, the privatization of the city's water supply was not affected. And the womb was - and it is, of course - the policy of liberating the European Union and water, as in energy and in a number of other sectors of the economy, of course. However, when the roots of the problem are not affected by a referendum, as was the case with the referendum on the EBRD, the sovereign policy can be well integrated, assimilated and sometimes even exploited, in order to pass its policy, as was done by SYRIZA in the case of EBRD, which proceeded with privatization. Finally, the JRC's position on local administration is well known. Our position opposes the current situation, in which the transfer of powers of the so-called "decentralisation" is accompanied by the economic strangulation of the municipalities, causing the local administration to become a further tax-driven mechanism, a lever for strengthening the reciprocity and generalisation of social services, so that as their main source the resources of local government or administration can have the reciprocity and entrepreneurship, while state funding can only have a symbolic balance. It is a typical argument, which is relevant to what we have said and relates to the so-called 'new revenue tools', as those of the municipalities are called. We are, of course, talking here about the euphemism of the real estate of the municipalities, which is nothing but a general raid, literally, a general attack by the so-called 'investors' on municipal property, its resources and its infrastructure. We do not fail to mention what happened a few days ago with the Prime Minister, who recently told the regional authorities that state funding, he says, will depend on whether the central political line is actually being implemented. In conclusion, on the occasion of the debate on the current unity in the Review Committee, which is the latter, we want once again to reaffirm the JRC's firm position on the constitutionalisation of the state's obligation to ensure all the necessary financial resources in the municipalities and regions with funding from the state budget. Thank you, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, I beg your pardon, but I would like to ask Mr Deli something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u121	What exactly do you want to ask, Mr. Catrugale?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u122	It may not have been heard, but I have asked all the rapporteurs to put themselves on the proposal that we have called for the transitional provisions to be renumbered so that the final article of the Constitution is again Article 114.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u123	I don't think we're gonna stand up to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u124	Good. Let us inform the House that the list is closed at the end of Mr Deli's speech. We are going to the next special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Konstantinos Hetas. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a two-month process is being completed today - for you rapporteurs who are smiling a usual procedure, for us an unprecedented procedure - which we have experienced with a very great sense of responsibility. I would also like, in my turn, to end by thanking all the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the speakers who participated in this process, which we have had strong moments during the committees, but also here in plenary, each of you in particular, the authors of Constitutional Law, our approved lawyers and our fellow politicians and MPs. And I would, of course, like to thank - because I feel blessed that I have lived through this - the President of the Greek Solution Kyriakos Velopoulos who has given me the opportunity to participate in the Constitutional Review Committee, a Constitution review that we will see whether the historian of the future will mention it and what will be the footprint of it in society, to the Greek citizens, to see how much he will touch them, to the frustrated by politicians - is the truth - Greek citizens who every day see that what is a priority for a large part of the policies - not to put them all in - are their internal interests rather than society itself. I'd like to make a little report. They found it today - and I will return to the Review very soon, because, moreover, the Constitution reflects and concerns society, everyday life - the Greek citizens and what was played in the Prime Minister's time - we are used to the last three hours that have been served by the Chief of New Democracy and Prime Minister and Mr. Tsipras in a communication show in which we have been accustomed to lately. They said and say that they have a project for the country and the citizens. What is this plan, is our question, because as long as this spectacle is offered - not only today, but all the times that you go up to this step - which is mainly addressed to the party clientele, you will allow me to say, at the same time, the problems of the Greek citizen continue to exist out there and grow. And because today the issue raised by the President of the Change Movement, Mrs Gennimata, has to do with the illegal immigration and the horror of our islands, I would like to say that the invasion of the islands continues unrelenting, until the time that we are talking about, and none of those who invade our country in the summer, for example, who will be ready for surrender for the new inflatables from your various business friends. The islands sink, and you still do paper exercises, because unfortunately it turns out you didn't have a plan. What you were saying in the election is not the case, because you change your plan every week. You also did not tell us who will pay these new announcements, because we are talking about a huge amount that will need to be spent. And, of course, we did not talk about people who live the drama every day and do not live it in the Greek Parliament. They live in areas such as the islands, where I think all the Members of this House are, most of them. At least we do it, always with our Chief in front of us go to hot spots in the areas, in the islands. I am referring to what the citizen lives every day, who does not reach our ears and our eyes or the media, in his daily life that has now become a nightmare. I am bringing this breeder from Lesvos, for example, who has been forced over the last 24 hours to put cameras in his handkerchief to protect his animals because they are stolen from him every day or the mayors who want to resign, whom we have not mentioned. We have also not mentioned where they are addressed - with a great deal of doubt I put it at the debate table - these polling companies. Because we did not see a question yesterday as to whether the Greek people, the Greek citizens, are satisfied with the way the Greek Government handles, manages or treats illegal immigration. Because you obviously don't ask people in Brasna, Samos, Mytilini, Diabetes, Kilkis, Serres, Evros, they obviously ask citizens who live only in the northern suburbs, Kolonaki and Glyfada. I can't understand anything else. And what did we hear today? Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard by the mouth of Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister, that the problem is here to stay. It is truly shocking to hear this from the Greek Prime Minister, in fact to throw a "white towel" on this huge issue facing our country. "The problem has come to stay" was the Prime Minister's confession today in the House. He also said Mr Mitsotakis, with a veil, that our borders are guarded and that his statement caused the applause of the New Democracy wing. I mean, our borders are guarded, Mr Mitsotakis, but since the day you took over, we have an increase of 200%. You also said that our country is not a clear vine. Obviously in words, why else is everyday, unfortunately, proves to be such a serious issue. And because you said that you were open to proposals and ideas once again, I would like to say that we have specific proposals and ideas, which may in the ears of some colleagues sound a little harsh, but believe us is the only solution to this huge problem. We have said our suggestions. These are four specific proposals. We can, if you want, talk about them. We have invited you to dialogue, Mr. Velopoulos, too many times, to find a solution. I return, ladies and gentlemen, with two - three comments on the proposal of the New Democracy, its final proposal. We have tabled, as a Greek solution, all our proposals in good time to the Bureau. In Article 21(1), paragraph 1 states that the 'Member State shall ensure...'. We would like it to be 'and it guarantees'. Of course, there are no more changes, just for the Minutes I mention some of our own comments. "With the signature of five hundred thousand citizens" is the proposal of the New Democracy. We think it's too much of a number. And also, as regards the 'two per parliamentary year', i.e. two in four years, we also consider the number to be small. 'Third Members' shall refer to paragraph 3 of Article 86 of the Constitution for prosecution. We insist on ten. And for paragraph 2 of Article 101, let us say that we propose 4/5 of the members rather than 3/5. That's just what I'm saying about history. Let's go a little now to the many hours we've spent and to the debates on the changes here in the Constitution, which we think are few and that they don't touch the issues that really concern the Greeks. I would also like to say that yesterday there were some misunderstandings because I reminded the House yesterday that since 1975 I have solved this matter in private - by 2005 there have been a thousand applications for waivers of parliamentary immunity and only five have been adopted. It's a real number. We didn't play the numbers. We had that evidence in our hands. As soon as this misunderstanding was made here yesterday, I immediately addressed to the Legal Work Directorate - and they answered me immediately - and I asked to know the number of waivers of parliamentary immunity from 2005 to 2019. To be correct, there wasn't a lukewarm or intentionally did what we did yesterday. We were answered by the Greek Parliament - which I will also present in the Minutes, to be sure that my microphones will not be closed today - that from the three hundred seventy-sevenths a motion for waivers of immunity was accepted by the hundred forty-one from 2005 to 2019. We talked about it in the hallways of the Parliament. There were, of course, particular circumstances at the time, because there were non-democratic parties in this House, so there was a slight increase in immunity. But, anyway, if one counts five and a hundred forty - one is a hundred forty - six in the last forty - four years. Those are the real numbers. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As a Greek Solution with great respect to colleagues and institutions, we have approached the whole process in full consistency and seriousness and we have considered it a real opportunity to improve some bad texts. Believe me, we will not allow anyone, in fact anyone, either because he had an unfortunate moment, or deliberately, to persecute anything in the Greek Solution. Get away from us. We want to be crystal and crystal clear. We speak in the heart of the Greeks, we speak of the thousands of Greeks who are watching us and have honored us with their vote. These citizens expect us, through this whole process, to improve their everyday lives, their standard of living, their lives. This is what Greek citizens expect from politicians, from us. Only to them are we accounted for anywhere else. Yes, Greece certainly needs a new, modernised constitution, a constitution without anachronistic provisions, without populism, a constitution that can respond to the demands of the times and needs of the Greeks, a constitution aimed at abolishing the impunity of the policies, real discrimination of the powers of the state, ensuring political stability, a constitution aimed at promoting the European orientation of our state, the liberalisation of the economy from the bonds of state power and the immunisation of the rights of Greek citizens. These thoughts should guide our decisions, ladies and gentlemen, on the new constitution and not on the temporary, if you wish, party interests. Our ideological proposal was and is the constitutional review aimed at decentralising and diffusing political power within national societies. I would like to dwell on this point to the independent authorities who tend to become institutions in our country the fourth power, i.e. about the'state in the state'. So the fact that we have so many independent authorities proves one thing, that the state itself rather admits its malfunction. It understands that it does not always take constitutionally sound and legitimate decisions. And it's alarming. You know that these independent authorities seem to be more effective in the sense of free movement of capital, goods and recently and immigrant. So our view is clear on this issue: instead of building, constantly creating independent authorities, we propose reforming our democratic institutions by giving citizens a role and making so many independent authorities superfluous. Of course, these authorities should be aware that they will be controlled in the light of transparency and justice. I now come to another equally important issue, that of confidence in the functioning of the state and the economy. The key words are two: 'Diffusion' and 'participation'. The dissemination of power among citizens, the decentralisation of power and the involvement of citizens in its exercise. We firmly believe that the dispersion of power and it is possible and is the best way to reduce corruption and interlocutory. Our political system is too centralised. Everything is done in the capital city, everything is done in Athens, all power is concentrated here. And as a North Helladite, from Thessaloniki, it hurts me more. The rest of the cities and the majority of the citizens are permanently excluded: The Macedonians, the Thracians, the islanders, the Continentians. Generally all those who live away from the hydrocephalic, as we say, Athens are simple viewers of what is done for them but always without them. From the first moment we are calling for the diffusion of power, which would limit the complexity and, in our view, strengthen the development of Greece. We are talking about a reform which would have applied to all levels of power, from central power to local government. As a party, therefore, to come to this, we fully support such decentralisation, a decentralisation that will lead to the creation of new, more decision-making centres. Of course, in the context of the people's genuine participation in the commons, we also support local referendums on a popular initiative. We are even in agreement with the introduction of local folk assemblies, but with decisive and not customary responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek solution is, however, clear in its positions. Only the citizens who are registered on the relevant electoral lists have the right to vote. It may therefore mean extending the "election" to these people would mean altering the will of national local society. Before I close, ladies and gentlemen, I could not fail to mention the success of this Revision of the Constitution. I could not say to the Greeks abroad, to those people who left badly from Greece, seeking a better tomorrow for themselves and their children. So know - and I'm sure you know - that these people have never forgotten Greece, their homeland. And because I am a child of immigrants, I was born and grew up in Germany for eleven years, I would like to say that these people created, wherever they went, Greek communities. We created Greek communities, maintained and promoted Greek culture, customs and customs in every way. We continued - and I put myself in - and we continue to support Greece in every way, home, even though it was basically the country that banned these people from here. These people continue to advertise Greece in the best way and make us proud. These people, these Greeks, who are more Greek than us, deserve this minimal recognition. They must be able to vote for their homeland. Why is it our role? Why does the people vote for us? What, in fact, is the parliamentary office worth if it does not work in favour of the country and of the citizens who have honoured us with their vote? I conclude by saying that as a Greek solution we can assure from this Stepa that we will always act in the direction of the recovery of our country and the prosperity of the Greek people, wherever he is inhabited. Thank you all from the heart.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u127	114. It is not of particular importance. So we will not be involved in this, we will say 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being toured in the exhibition of the "Eleftherios Venizelos" Hall and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-nine students and students and six school attendants from the Eleftherios Rethymno municipal school. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Fotini Bakadima, a special buyer from Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin my position from the end to the beginning, starting with Rule 112 et seq. Suffice it to say that we agree with the abolition of any anachronistic provision or unnecessary transitional provision, which has now been completed. Now I'm going through self-government. Clearly we need to ensure that a stronger local government is in the proximity and subsidiarity of criteria for transferring powers from central government to regions and municipalities. At Mer25 we want functional decentralisation at all levels, that is, what serves the citizen most in his daily contact with the public and what can undoubtedly save time. We must not be afraid to grant such responsibilities that strengthen local government at all. In this way, municipalities and regions will best achieve their purpose. It is absolutely legitimate, therefore, that local authorities should take responsibility for local affairs, even so-called ‘public interest’. It is closer to the issue and has more experience and memory of the particular situations and conditions of each region. These special conditions bring the next issue to the fore. I am referring to island and mountainousness, basically our national geographical characteristics. We have the most extensive coastline of all the Mediterranean countries, with our islands accounting for almost 20% of our territory, but at the same time we are the most mountainous country in the European Union. The islands, but mountainous areas share over - below the same basic problems, with the disfellowshipping and isolation of them, which is what is defined as natural removal of an area from the basic markets and structures of a national territory. That is why politicians must remain ready to prevent this removal, in order to keep and bring closer together those who keep the soul of Greece, from Ormene to Gadus and from the Ottoon to Strongylis and Kastelorizo. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the inhabitants of these regions have a lower level of health, care and education services than urban centres. They have higher travel costs, more accurate and more difficult to move goods. Energy and telecommunications networks remain incomplete many times, even though we are in the era of later electricity and the Internet. Often locust areas stay free of current and not all run water. We therefore have the complete deindustrialisation of the region. An image of despair, which we have all seen with the summer disgrace of Samothrace, with the government unable to salvage the dignity of the country and protect residents and visitors. Whole areas are isolated when a mountain bridge has been demolished, which has never been well maintained. People are losing their lives from road networks - carmillas, mountainous county and islands. We therefore need specific attention to the needs of these Greeks, because they too become vulnerable groups at the expense of state analgesia. We need targeted development policies with respect for the environment and the prospect of stable work for the local population. We need to link these actions to corresponding European Union regions to finance projects that have futures in islands and mountain regions and produce wealth and not opportune subsidies with expiry date. Our Constitution also obliges us in Article 106, but also the Treaty of Amsterdam. That is what we are saying, reducing disparities in the levels of development in the various regions and reducing the delay in the most disadvantaged regions. Many people say that we have enough of Article 106 of the Constitution. On the basis of what I have just said, we must admit, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not enough, because the rulers are restricting it to measures without vision, such as VAT exemption, which appears to be a panacea when it is granted and unjustly when it is abolished at will. The terminology and insularity clause must be clearly linked to the national development clause, but in addition to this, their administrative development must also be stimulated as a measure of social policy. Bring the state to the citizen, connect the remote resident to the so-called metropolitan centre, serve public services in mountain and island areas with a view to even greater decentralisation over time. At this point as a country, unfortunately, we are taking a very low position. We are third from the end of the European Union to infrastructure in remote areas, and we must correct that. We want the resources of the OTAs to be mixed, and that is what the Constitution says, to force the state to co-finance projects necessary to improve the living conditions of the local people when the OTAs are not sufficient. After all, not all OTAs are as strong as they are, nor do they all have the same needs, and we will in no way put them all in the same scale. However, because we care about taxpayers' money and accountability, we are proposing that the LAGs submit an annual report on the realities and programming of the next year and make all the financial data publicly available. We have been afflicted very much by abuses in local government and this proves many recent judicial decisions. So what we need is more transparency so that we can prevent mismanagement early, when there is still time, from being corrected. Now, for the analogue system in the self-government elections, local assemblies, local referendums and popular initiatives, at OTA level, I think that yesterday's position is already ahead of our current attitude. We cannot simply want analogues in national elections and do not want it in local elections. Our position on analogues is very simple. It's: the simplest, the nicest. Anything that moves in that direction, we support it. But nowadays some of the government's majority are invoking some paradoxical examples of the last municipal and regional elections in order to charge them to the simple analogue. He was found a mayor’s winner to lead a municipal council to which he is voting. However, instead of charging everything in the simple analogue, we need to take the necessary legislative steps to ensure that it does not happen again. Going to local assemblies, referendums and citizens' initiative in self-government, and here I have no surprise at all, as what I will say is moving in line with our positions. Already in the debate on the President of the Republic, we described the creation of a special consultative council of confiscators and elected citizens, the EPCF. The EPCs horizontally run political themes and become a bridge between citizens and power, where neither statism nor privatization can provide solutions. Now DENMARK will conduct a regular and abstract dialogue, with temporary members of one/3 of deputies involved, 1/3 of deputies with election rights and 1/3 of regional consultants, on a pro rata basis. The DENMARK will also meet on a regular basis with specific agendas. The representatives of the elected representatives shall put forward proposals and other members shall put questions and counter-proposals. At the end of the Conference, the IPCC shall act by a majority and submit to the region a recommendation. The region, if consensual, acts. If the EPC does not agree, and the EPC shall return with the same recommendation after two years, the recommendation shall enter a negative roll-call vote on the regional council, requiring an enhanced majority to be rejected. In other words, regional authorities and representatives should specifically explain why they are responding to and not disciplining the request of the IPPCs. As you can see, the issue of local assemblies and initiatives is going one step further. At this point, however, I would like to inform the President and the Secretariat that, for Article 101(1), we have already tabled our proposal to the committee on 22 October under a protocol number 26, but it has not been included in the material you have distributed. Therefore, I would ask you to carry out a corrigendum and to settle this pending issue. Moving on to the local referendums, which have long history in Europe and are the originals of the ancient Greek republic of the city, we also agree. For example, if before KALIKARATH had been consulted with the citizens, would we not have prevented all known subsequent errors? I am not going to go too far in Article 96, which concerns the assimilation of military judges to regular judicial officers. We agree with a fair request that is well exploited and we will support it. We just want to point out that we will then need special care in order to get the simulation settled in practice. We are proposing to set up a new direction at the National School of Judiciary, in order to guarantee future military judges and to enable them to contribute to criminal matters of the common criminal courts, where appropriate, in order to contribute to the speeding up of justice. Last thing I left the independent authorities and their leadership. Unfortunately, and in this case, the case of the Competition Committee has put the country together and revealed an incomprehensible and subversive institutional truce. At the same time, it demonstrates the government's willingness to set up a prime-priority centralism, which ultimately alters the form of the culture itself. European law itself, in Directive 1 of 2019, states about these principles. National administrative competition authorities shall be protected against external interference or political pressures which may jeopardise their independent assessment of the issues they are being addressed. And then the directive becomes even more specific. The leadership of such a authority may be terminated only if it no longer fulfils the conditions for carrying out the tasks or if it is found guilty of serious infringement of a duty under national law. So to dismantle any suspicions that the independent authorities and the political forces are either hugging or trenches, we are proposing the choice of a dilemma of the heads of independent authorities, a body that I will not analyse, because I have already referred to this in detail. In order to stimulate independence and transparency, we also propose that the plenary sessions of the independent authorities be public, very clearly with some necessary exceptions. New independent authorities shall be established by unanimity, or at least by a majority of two hundred forty Members. We have twenty-four non-constitutionally guaranteed independent principles. We think the number is impressive for the size of our country. Of course, these principles, and in serious fields, are involved and serious work must be done. But should such material of executive power be allocated to independent bodies? We all know her about reasonable mistrust, which is why I will not expand. In Merra25 we say that these questions solve very strong parliamentary consents, and that is why we are talking about 4/5. Before I close, I will make a brief reference to the proposal to add the new paragraph with number 4 to Article 54 of the Constitution. We read that the exercise of a electoral right, such as a genuine bond with the country, a personal presence in a polling station, an absence time from the country, etc. We think it is the least strange thing to demand that the presence can be proved - certainly, it remains to be seen in the law if it is required - active VAT, property ownership or something else. What we can say, however, concerns the last part, the possibility of introducing one or more electoral regions of Greek origin, is a move that we welcome. We will support it, because it is also part of our original proposal in the proposal for a law that we have tabled on the vote on irregularities. I don't want to waste more time. I hope I'm done in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u130	For 114, my colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u131	We consider it of symbolic importance, and we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Katrugalos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u134	We had said, Mr President, on the previous President-in-Office that we should be in a two-minute position when the proposal for Article 54(4) is distributed. That's all I want to say, and I'll be in two minutes. A number of our remarks were accepted, as were the addition of the real bond as a restriction on regulation. It has also been homogenized, as we requested, by terminology. There are still two issues which we have raised and which have not been regulated. The first is essential. We believe that it should not be possible, but certainly affirmative, to formulate both the conditions for the exercise of the electoral right and the introduction of the right to vote. We want it not to be at the discretion of the joint legislature to recognise the right to be elected to the migrants, but to be an essential element of the regulation both in the Constitution and in the law. The last point is - and I hope it is not appropriate - that there are three different majorities for the law regulating the vote on the revenues, one of Article 51(4) of the budget in the first two paragraphs, one simple majority in the third paragraph and one majority in the reference to paragraph 1 of Article 54, eighty-eight. It does not make sense for the constitutional material itself to regulate the vote on revenues to have a majority different from that of the two hundred set out in the revision process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u135	Mr Katrugale, these proposals to put them to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u136	That's right. I'll give you SYRIZA's proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u137	Warm request, that this be done immediately to be distributed. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u138	Don't be afraid. I come for symbolic reasons at this Step. I do not take the opportunity because of the ministerial status of taking part in this debate, but because I have the chance and the honour of being the third constitutional revision in which I participate as a Member. I have to make a few remarks, because as a member of the Constitutional Review Committee in the previous House I was placed on a number of issues. I would like to make two comments now that this debate is closing. The first point is in relation to what we have achieved. I think that big steps have been taken. I've been watching the whole conversation all this time. There have been great steps, both in terms of Article 86 and in terms of Article 62. We are protecting the authority of the Member with the regulations. We are protecting the credibility of the government. I think it is an essential step towards consolidating our democracy and the transparency that must exist in the political system. In this House he responded with delay to the need for society. The other thing we are doing is really to complete the 1985 constitutional review in relation to the President. The President has dismissed all his responsibilities. He had remained elected only by a qualified majority, as well as the political developments he caused, that is, the dissolution of the House if we did not achieve it. We are completing this unreservedness of the previous constitutional review, which cost us political developments, which did not lead the country to political stability, which it needed. But I would also like to say about the bets we have lost, because in ten years' time we will be discussing a constitutional revision. Some other Members will be in these chairs. A new generation will come. And we'll be asked by the new generation for the bets we've lost. For example, we have lost the bet on the revision of Article 16. We have not responded to the needs of society. We have not been close to what is happening in a Europe that today decides to overfinance Erasmus Plus' educational spring. On the other hand, Greece wants to remain in a structure of its universities, as the "visited" lawmakers of the Ugandan Constitution, who effectively protected the public service relations of the servants in the universities by transforming them into legal entities governed by public law. That's it. I think that's a huge step backwards. The second point is that we have not responded to the needs of unregulated structures at last, to stop plundering public property, to exploit their natural wealth with respect for the environment through the revision of Article 24, which has only brought problems. And we should have made a brave agreement on how it should have moved, protecting our cultural heritage and natural beauty, but giving rights to property exploitation. The third is that we have not reached an agreement on a radical change in justice and on the choice of its leadership, but even more so on the establishment of a constitutional court, which would have protected us from incomplete referendums, for example this 2015, would have put restrictions on the authoritarianism of any government, would have supported the bad legalisation. It will also have protected much more serious and much more valid rights, which have been violated in the period of the memorandum. And we must be honest. These are the bets we've lost. And that's what the next constitutional legislators will ask us for. So let us not rush on Monday to celebrate only the steps we have taken in front of us, but let us learn a lesson from our institutional delay and the inability to agree, seeing the future of where Greece must be, which has taken steps towards their institutional maturity, but is still far from taking advantage of all the possibilities it has: young people, its university community, to exploit its natural wealth and its historical heritage and to deepen the institutional way in which its state operates, so that it can respond to modern European data. I would really like to congratulate the rapporteurs, the chairman of the committee and the members of the committee on the work they have done in a short time and seriously resulted in this result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u139	Before we move to the special rapporteurs, I will give the floor to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Stylianides. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I enter the subject of today's, last theme of unity, I would like to say, because I have previously heard Mr Katrugalos, that the violation of duty, referred to in Article 259 of the Criminal Code, is an offence other than the bribery referred to in Article 235 of the Criminal Code, because the first, that is to say Article 259, relates to the duties of officials and therefore the Minister, when he violates them. That's what he said. But according to Article 235, which is the bribe, the objective nature of this crime needs to be taken unfairly by the official and therefore by the Minister for Energy or Failure to act in the performance of his duties, i.e. in the exercise of the duty of the Minister. This is an answer to comment. I am now entering the main section, ladies and gentlemen. The revision of Article 96(5) shall be necessary in order to enable military judges to be enclosed with the necessary guarantees of operational and personal independence, such as those provided for in Article 87(1) of the Constitution. That is why, in our proposal, explicit reference is made to the equation of military and political judges as follows: Members of the Judiciary of the Armed Forces are surrounded by lean guarantees of functional and personal independence of other regular judges under Article 87(1) of the Constitution. The provision of a law on the graduation of the judiciary officers of the Armed Forces with other regular judicial officers is also added, the composition of the Supreme Judiciary of this body, the disciplinary boards and, of course, the inspection committees. The law already adopted is Law 2304/1945 of the Armed Forces Judiciary Code and Law 2287/1995 of the Military Criminal Code. The need for a stronger clarification of the independent and impartial nature of the judiciary is based on Article 6(1) of the European Convention on Human Rights, which, of course, concerns not only trials for citizens, but also citizens of military status. This view strengthens a number of decisions by the European Court of Human Rights, particularly against Turkey. They are the Ciraklur, Ynkul and Otsalan cases. In all cases, it is argued that they cannot enjoy personal and operational independence in the performance of their duties as judges when, due to their parallel status as officers, they are dependent on bodies of the executive, i.e. in this case the military hierarchy. This is what comes to protect the provision of Article 96(5), which defines the grading equivalence of functions, the composition of the relevant councils and the equation with the other ordinary judges, because independence and impartiality, as the European Court of Human Rights maintains, must not just be guaranteed by their organisation and function, but also be seen and, at the same time, demonstrated. Furthermore, the recommendation of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on the protection of human rights of members of the Armed Forces, adopted on 24 February 2010, expressly provides in paragraph 34 that ‘the organisation and functioning of the military courts, where they exist, should fully ensure the right of everyone to an appropriate, independent and impartial court at every stage of legal proceedings’. The need for this new proposal for revision and supplementing Article 96(5) emerged, among other things, from Decision 2857/2003/EC of the Council of State, which considered whether the State could establish for judiciary officers the wages of other judiciary officers or the wages of the military. The judgment then held that, in the case of the military judges, Article 88(2) of the Constitution, concerning the remuneration of judges, cannot apply in this case, otherwise the existing Article 96(5)(a). Such interpretations have taken place, of course, in other decisions of the Council of State, as well as in judgments of court proceedings, in matters relating to the personal and service situation of the officials of military justice. However, this has to be cured, because, as in practice, the case law, the remuneration of the judicial officers, whoever they are, whether military or political, is an element of personal and operational independence. The equation, which is reflected in the new provision, therefore, interprets this ambiguity that leads the Council of State to the above interpretation of wages and confirms that this independence and institutional equality with other judges are not for the sake of their industry, but for the sake of citizens who are not allowed under the Constitution, because they are military, to be tried by judges with limited guarantees of independence. I'm going to the matter of the independent authorities. The independent authorities appeared to be a phenomenon in the United States of America and were transported some delay to Europe. It could be argued that they constitute the institutional confession of the political system's failure to manage in itself the necessity of a new horizontal, this time, a distinction of powers, a distinction between the market, technology and politics. If each of these areas is allowed to act alone and uncontrollably, it tends to impose on others. If, for example, the policy is allowed to control the market, we will lead to a state-reporting model, corresponding to what has failed in the Soviet Union, with an attack on too many cases, even on individual freedoms. If, on the other hand, technocracy is allowed to control politics, then we risk leading to an inappropriate rationale, which is often unable to perceive the strengths or wishes of society, by transforming democracy into a status of experts, that is, what the German theory calls 'Fachidioten', that is,'state of skilled idiots'. If, finally, the market is to control policy, we are at risk of leading to an absolute conflict, where the strength of specific interests will multiply greedy, by ordering bills at the expense of society as a whole and, possibly, at the expense of democracy itself. The independent authorities come to impose this very new horizontal separation of powers, defining dynamically, but accurately the complementary and inter-control role of the three different sites: the market area, the area of technology and the policy area. So gradually, with their operation and their decisions, it is clear that: Firstly, the market must be the one that produces wealth, creates jobs, despise the concept of "driving" and "interesting" as the driving creative forces of man, provided that the individual passes through public, social and national interests and obeys rules. Secondly, technocracy can contribute to other areas with fresh knowledge and modern information, but without, of course, replacing them in their operation. Finally, it is the policy that lays down the rules, supervises their implementation and defines a common national and social vision, namely a strategy, in which, of course, it will fit the small dream of each family, every business, every citizen and, ultimately, every human being. For these reasons, I believe that newly emerging independent authorities can be typologically distinguished into four major categories: The first includes those that act as institutional guarantees for the effective protection of certain individual rights, such as the Privacy Authority in Article 9A of the Constitution and the Communications Security Authority in Article 19(2) of the Constitution. The second category includes principles which exercise supervision in large areas or in the entire public administration, in particular as regards the right to petition, as specified in Article 10 of the Constitution or the appointment of civil servants in Article 103 of the Constitution. These are no more than the AACC in Article 103 par. 7 and the Citizens' Counsel at Article 103, par. No 9 of the Constitution. The Consumers' Counselor does not belong to the constitutionally protected authorities, but it monitors the rules. The third category includes independent bodies which exercise powers mainly relating to the functioning of the market, as a whole or in specific areas, such as the Competition Committee, the National Telecommunications and Post Commission, the Energy Regulatory Authority, etc. These are not provided for by the Constitution, but by law and are affected, not only by the national legislator, but also by European law. They refer mainly to the state's economic function and economic freedom. I would like to say here that we could actually have the 'form' of the state, so that the way these authorities operate is in line with the rules of operation of the constitutional authorities. And we don't, of course, put them in the Constitution, but at least there's this correspondence in the operation. This also responds in a way to the Public Procurement Authority, which had also tabled a letter to the committee on this subject, so that it can see whether it is available to prescribe it. Fourthly, a critical mixed category of authorities, combining the characteristics of the three previous categories, is the one which includes the National Broadcasting Council in Article 15(1). On the one hand, it guarantees and supervises and ensures that the Constitution, which has decisive powers on the one hand. These independent authorities are useful when they guarantee rights and there they must in any case be constitutionally guaranteed, and when they seek more transparency in the functioning of the administration this must be reflected in relevant arrangements in the Code of Administrative Procedure. On the other hand, when it is a manifestation of the political system's inability to assume its responsibilities and try to transfer them to the shoulders of non-political persons, the establishment of this function must be vain. Independent authorities cannot be regarded as institutional counterweights operating against the principle of controls and balances of our parliamentary system. On the other hand, they must act as guarantees for a legal, democratic and pluralist city, by protecting the autonomy of politics against overconcentration of economic, communication and, ultimately, political influence. As in the traditional distinction between legislative, judicial and executive powers, the judicial control of anti-constitutionalism, parliamentary control, the dissolution of the House, the necessary adoption of acts, for example, by the President of the United States from the Senate, etc., must also be applied as the independent authorities, not as a counterweight to the parliamentary character, but as a counterweight to the relationship between the market, technology and politics, in the context of a new, as I said before, a horizontal distinction of powers. The relationship between the authorities and Parliament is governed by Rule 101a itself in paragraph 3, which, in addition to parliamentary scrutiny, refers to the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. Inspection is caused by the Minister or by direct hearings in Articles 66 et seq. of the Constitution and 138 A and 43A(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. This, and the special relationship of the independent authorities with the House, obliges us to revise this article, making it easier to serve them, but without losing their supra-party and independent character and without creating an institutional vacuum at the same time as the inability to form them. To date, the practice of seeking unanimity and, nonetheless, a majority of 4/5 of the Conference of Presidents has led to a difficulty or even a failure to form the authorities. This was addressed by Law 3051/2002, as amended by Law 4055/2012, in order to automatically extend the term of office of the members of the independent authority to six months if there is a problem of new establishment. The extension of the period of six months shall also apply if some members disappear or leave, but without prejudice to the possibility of forming a quorum. The Council of State in its entirety, by Decision 3515/2013 and later on 2583/2017, has allowed the authorities to continue to operate until new members have become members, but only for a reasonable time to be judged in the circumstances. The proposal of the New Democracy has to deal with the problem that has arisen in practice, replacing the unanimity and the enhanced majority of 4/5 with the 3/5 of the Conference of Presidents. This facilitates the replacement process or institutionalises the extension and thus ensures the continuous, undisturbed functioning of the independent authorities. And that is a guarantee even for our citizens. At the same time, the prestige of the principle is protected from micro-party purposes, which may prevent the replacement of members. And, of course, the parliamentary accountability of the authorities and their parliamentary control guarantee their complementary role, facilitates Parliament in its work, strengthens their democratic legitimacy and strengthens their effectiveness through the obligation of parliamentary accountability, which is usually done in the form of reports. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, because I am actually ending my speech during the procedure of the Revision House, let me, as chairman of the committee, thank the Bureau and the Members of this House for their complete and excellent support in the difficult work we have undertaken, all the rapporteurs and special speakers, my colleagues in the Bureau and Parliamentary Representatives of all the parties, the political parties themselves, the political groups and all my fellow Members for their contribution to a dialogue of the highest political and scientific level, in a very serious effort at national level. The different ideological origins have not prevented us from reliving a initially deceased and mutilated review process. Starting from the hundred and fifty-four points of disagreement in the proposed House and the forty-nine points of disagreement in the Revision Committee, we have managed to meet on nine important points of agreement - probably Monday - and to vote on nine major changes, namely, much more and certainly much more important than other reform efforts, such as the 1986 and 2008 one. Our decisions: Firstly, they support the Greek family with the minimum guaranteed income in Article 21(1). Secondly, they shall ensure governmental and political stability by preventing the highest rule from being elected under Article 32(4). Thirdly, they upgrade Parliament by facilitating the setting up of a committee of inquiry and by the minor opposition, in accordance with Article 68. Fourthly, they restore the position of the Member with the strictness of asylum in Article 62. Fifthly, they shield the credibility of policy with the equality of minister and ordinary citizen in matters of limitation in the criminal proceedings, in accordance with Article 86(3). Sixth, strengthen the independence of military justice in accordance with Article 96(5). Seventhly, it facilitates horizontal separation of powers between the market, technology and policy, by facilitating the emergence of independent authorities in Article 101A(2) of the Constitution. Eighth, they shall ensure the activation of citizens by establishing the popular legislative initiative in Article 76(6) of the Constitution. Ninth, they grow Greece, facilitating the vote of the universal Hellenism and making the national Parliament an expressioner not only of the people but also of the nation. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I finally believe that this Review will leave behind the indelible quality seal and thank you very much for your contribution to all its phases.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Stylianides. We will now begin the cycle of special rapporteurs, with Mr Athanasios Davaki from New Democracy first. Until Mr Davakis comes to Stepma, we owe an answer to Mrs Bakadima as the Bureau. Mrs Bakadamma, in your speech to the Bureau, you have raised the question, because a proposal has not been distributed within the committee. I am not referring specifically to which article, etc. I did not reply immediately because I wanted to investigate it. The services therefore replied that this proposal, which you spoke about, was distributed to the rapporteurs of the parties at least within the committee. We have had an explanation because what you said to the Bureau was recorded, and the Bureau considers it necessary to reply to such Members' comments, which are all the more acceptable and reasonable. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Before I propose the revision of Article 96(5) of the Constitution by the New Democracy, I, too, would like to make two, three comments. The first observation as a member of the Revision Committee of the Constitution is that there has been a substantial, very serious involvement of new Members in the reform of the Constitution and in the committee, but above all in plenary. This demonstrates the interest of colleagues, the strengthening and bloodshed of democracy and parliamentaryism in the top issue of the Revision of the Constitution, as well as in the general interest of them, which, of course, also demonstrates a substantial, modernistic and progressive footprint of the National Representation. At the same time, I would like to say something that has been made clear in the plenary, that there has been an important critical attitude of all the speakers towards the independent administrative authorities, which shows a dialogue, which perhaps on the occasion of the Revision of the Constitution, has begun and which has to be completed at some point. There was an important suggestion from the Minister of State, who said a few things to the committee, and I think it motivated us all, I would say, in the direction of limiting some roles or, in any case, of particular attention to these specific principles. As far as I am concerned, these oppose matters themselves in this House and I would say that they create problems where they could solve them. It may be that the political system - if we can say so, within introductory or out-of-date - created it, built it, devised it as a bypass of the major political, administrative malfunctions, anomalies or responsibilities it had, but we can all see that, as far as these independent authorities are concerned - as I have already said, and by what my colleague, Mrs Bakadima, Ms. Bakadimas, Mrs. BRA25 - we need this Chamber to do better, to see them and to be able to give a better job prospects to them, but above all to our role, which is limited by their own projects. The Minister said earlier, Mr Varvitsiotis, about a few lost bets. Indeed, important bets have been lost not because of this parliamentary majority, this parliament that came from the elections of 7 July, but from the pathogens and - I would say - from the ideas of the previous government. Some of the bets lost were referred to in Article 16, issues relating to Article 24, which regulate environmental issues, but also issues of respect for state property, public property, which are often looted. As far as the issues that are concerned with constitutional reform are concerned, in addition to all others and as they have been addressed by our general rapporteurs, what I would like to stress is the way out of the enormous problems posed by the way the President of the Republic was elected, with the related political anomalies, I would say, because of the use of the constitutional check for the way he is elected by the political forces and in particular any opposition - and the proposition to which I have the honour of being a victim of many of them - as well as the issues that have to do with what will slowly lead us to a modernisation of the state, of politics, of the state, of the State, and of the State, with top of all of them and of the strengthening of the Greek family, which is guaranteed by the introduction of the constitutional minimum income requirement. As a special rapporteur for the New Democracy, on the change to paragraph 5 of Article 96, I would like to say that it solves a huge problem, as it completely treats military judges as their colleagues in regular justice. It is, in our view, an essential reform that fully ensures the operational and personal independence of military judges and is shielded, at the same time, the rule of law. This has come to light, in order to move forward with its constitutional treatment, 16 years ago, when the Council of State, under its decision No 2857/2003, which shows that military judges are differentiated from their colleagues, has triggered that there is no explicit reference to the Constitution that assimilates them wages. The remuneration of judges is, however, an essential element of their functional and personal independence, which is an essential guarantee of individual freedoms and citizens' rights. It is also appropriate to a strong rule of law, which must ensure that all citizens are subjected to courts which have the greatest effect on all the conditions and characteristics of independence. Therefore, this addition which we are debating and suggesting to the National Representation, paragraph 5 of Article 96, will ensure a full balance between the officials of military and regular justice and is a substantial and important reform. On this point, I believe that all the members of the committee and all the members of the committee agree, as was the case in the committee, and here too, all the members of the committee and all the members of the Chamber. And I believe that it will also make a significant contribution to independence and to better operational treatment of the issues facing military judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u143	Next speaker, the special rapporteur from SYRIZA, Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my report I shall be taking both issues, and Articles 96(5) and 101 concerning the independent authorities. And I will be in my time, because I understand that we have colleagues from yesterday who have been afflicted. Ladies and gentlemen, military justice, in the form we know today, is seen as a conquest of the ideological outrage brought to the world by the French Revolution, even though the award of military justice was exclusively a matter of the supreme commander to the commander. The French model of military justice was followed by most of the member states of the international community with smaller variations. Our country has not been an exception to this practice since 1822, during the French Revolution, the introduction of the relevant French military criminal rules by means of a resolution from the First National Assembly of Epidaurus. In our country, alongside the first attempts to establish regular troops according to the pattern of the armies of the European countries, in particular by modelling the organization of the French troops, the total introduction of French military law, as I said, was adopted in 1822, which, in view of the need for'military flexibility' to prosper the troops and 'inhibit what is from the unexplained conflict', provided for in its 9-1-22 resolution, on the one hand, that'military crimes are judged by a military council appointed by the administration and the condemnation decision is taken after the ratification of the administration' and, on the other, that 'the military Codex of France, with the necessary prerogatives, which has to be exposed to the custody of the administration, also applies to the military of Greece'. It is, essentially, the introduction and primaryity of military justice in Greece. After the release of our country from the Turkish yoke and for the restoration, establishment and operation of the independent Greek state, then the regular troops of Greece, the then Governor of Greece, Ioannis Kapodistrias, began to organise, because he thought it was not easy to draw up a military penal code, originally published the Organisation of the Thousands, setting the basis for an incomplete, even military criminal law, by providing for military courts. It then adopted its resolution of 21-10-28, which established the practice to date, the military and naval criminal laws in force in France. All the above efforts do not seem to have had a substantial effect, since, in fact, in France, the text of the current Military Criminal Code had been finalised, due to the successive reform efforts, with the result that the administration of justice, at least to the Greek troops of the time, was at the discretion of the commander concerned. Finally, in 1860, after being passed by the Parliament and the Senate, the first complete Military Criminal Code of our country, which was a imitation and, in many respects, an accurate translation of the French Military Criminal Code of 1857, which generally referred to the first, but remained in force as regards the main naval offences, the earlier 'due to offences and penalties' laws introduced by Captain Ioannis Kapodistrias. I would only mention that the laws of a qualitative, legislative nature were intended for the voluntary armies of their time. That is why, over time, they ceased to respond to the needs of the National Army, both in terms of suppression of criminal acts, which undermined its security and discipline, as well as in terms of guarantees given to the soldiers. In 1936, therefore, there was a new attempt to create a Military Criminal Code, which was not completed, while in 1939, the Ministry of Justice finally set up a five-member committee to draw up a draft Military Criminal Code, which was submitted in January 1941, but which was prevented by the Second World War and the case remained incomplete. The resolution of the 1974 Constitution is undoubtedly considered to have led to developments towards the reform of Greek military justice, since such provisions were included in Section IV of the Constitution, entitled "Organisation and jurisdiction of the courts", which contains arrangements for the criminal courts of the country. And it was predicted that “the regarding the functioning of the military courts, naval courts and courts, to which individuals cannot be subject, are regulated by special laws”, Article 96(4)(a) of the Constitution. Article 96(5) below provided for the officials of the military courts, the same fundamental guarantees of functional and personal independence as those surrounding the common criminal and political courts. In the long period between the French Revolution and today, the tendency to "wean" military justice by the military in itself is reinforced, precisely because military justice is judging offences only by soldiers, without being different from the administration of justice to the rest of society. After all, the establishment of a School of Military Law serves this need and therefore professional military judges do not have a seat at the court's headquarters, as the grounds for rescinding them as judges have turned out. Today, when the socio-political causes of the institution of military justice have changed irresponsiblely in this area of justice, they have also been influenced, in turn, by the predominant view that, as a judiciary, it must only be granted by judges, the time has come to amend Article 96(5) of the Constitution, so that military courts are made up of members of the Armed Forces Judicial Corps, for which members have to provide the same guarantees of personal and operational independence as colleagues of the other courts. This regulation is a mature demand of society and also of the judiciary itself, so that today the review process can synchronise its pace with the existing social need. The proposed regulation reflects the dialectic course of demilitarisation of military justice, in order to become justice awarded by judges to civilians who have the status of military. Our proposal to amend the relevant article is in this direction, namely, that of all constitutional guarantees of the personal and operational independence of military justice, including the provisions on remuneration. After all, the term "military judge" does not express the military status of the judge but his functional role. This is therefore a proposal that enhances the general functioning of the judiciary, cures a chronic injustice, but also has a further important dimension. Neither symbolically nor essentially does it mean in a democratic European state to maintain any discrimination in the constitutional guarantees provided by judges. In this direction, we believe that the proposed amendment enhances the quality and validity of the judicial function as a whole, as it removes the existing inequalities. With regard to 110A and the institutional role of the independent authorities in the Greek legal order - so that I do not abuse time and take the vital time of colleagues who are waiting - I would like to say that, as long ago as yesterday, it is actually a way of agreeing to help with the functioning of the public administration where it cares. I would like to say that, in essence, we must not have much and inflation of such principles. That is why we have set the prerequisites for the Parliament's decision to establish them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And so that I do not exceed my time, Mr President, just to say that we are making a regulation, in which we say that the independent authorities must be decided by a qualified majority. Furthermore, their administration should be determined by the decision of 4/5. Since, within eight months of the end of the term of office of the outgoing members of the independent authority, a quorum of 4/5 has not been achieved and within 30 days - I add to the excellence of the legislative wording - we have to go to the 3/5 majority. With these proposals I conclude my introduction. I would like to thank all my fellow Members, the Bureau and the rapporteurs for an excellent procedure, both on the debate in the Committee on Revision of the Constitution and on the House itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u145	The special rapporteur from New Democracy, Mr Zetta Makreis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all of us who have had the honour of participating in the Constitutional Review Committee, many times in our contributions and in our positions, have reverted and effectively appreciated the previous three revisions from 1975 to today. And we did so by assessing the trends of the times during which these were carried out, the accumulated experience gained, but also the acquired experiences that were acquired at intervals of time. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must be honest with Greek society. First of all, this review is carried out in an internationally more constitutionalised environment. The National Constitution itself is international, as it is under the influence of the law of the European Union, of international law and, in particular, of the European Convention on Human Rights. All the Member States of the European Union now follow the current trend, the phenomenon that is scientifically called'multi-level constitutionalism', i.e., because of the influence of the above international legal rules, is related to the value of the national constitution. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] However, its importance remains extremely important in matters relating to national constitutional identity, which they - and they must protect - all the Member States and even the Member States of the European Union, because it is precisely linked to national sovereignty. The constitutional review is therefore very important and is not often done. Nevertheless, over time, from one Review to the other, many informal constitutional revisions can be carried out through judicial control of constitutionality and the interpretation of courts, European and international law or through the European Convention on Human Rights. Somehow, therefore, informally constitutionally, the independent authorities made their appearance in the Greek legal order in the 1980s, initially as independent administrative authorities, while some of them were then guaranteed by the Constitution itself by the 2001 Review. In the constitutional text, the term 'administrative' has been deleted in order to give greater emphasis to the term 'independence'. With Article 101a of the Constitution, in conjunction with the specific provisions relating to each authority, the basic institutional features, as well as issues concerning the terms of office of the designated members of the Boards, the staff and the qualifications of the members of the independent authorities are regulated. The apparent need for the incorporation of the independent authorities into the Greek legal order is primarily based on the effective protection of individual rights, which, because of the rapid technological development, had to be dressed with additional institutional guarantees, precisely because there are new types of threats, such as telecommunications or privacy of private life. There should therefore be additional institutional guarantees to prevent and control these threats in the areas I have just mentioned. The other need is to cover weaknesses and shortcomings in political power linked to the crisis in modern representative parliamentary democracy. The creation of the independent authorities is the result of the need for the political bodies of the states themselves to be politically neutralised in very serious areas of state power, areas for which they are embarrassed in managing them or inability to protect and apply the sovereignty and neutrality of the public administration, for issues relating to the functioning of very critical sectors of the market. Independent authorities are therefore a form of strengthening and shielding the legal phenomenon. Also evident are the technical reasons why we are leading to more and more formations of independent authorities. The impartial formation of executives, the highest level in terms of qualifications, the competitive advantage vis-à-vis others to adopt acts with full justification, is some of them. Finally, with regard to their typology, the authorities were initially classified into four major categories, later for reasons of briefness and practicability, together with two: constitutionally guaranteed and non-constitutionally guaranteed. The first original category of four comprises independent authorities operating as institutional guarantees for constitutional rights. It is the Privacy Authority, the Privacy Authority. The second major category includes the authorities that supervise public administration, such as the Citizens' Counselor and the Higher Staff Selection Board, which is not named within the Constitution, but directly refers to the revised Article 103(7) of the Constitution. The third major category is the independent market surveillance authorities, which are not constitutionally regulated, such as the Competition Committee, the Energy Regulatory Authority, the National Telecommunications and Post Committee, but are certainly completely tolerated and desirable. Finally, there is the category that includes the mixed nature of independent authorities, which combines the characteristics of all three previous categories, such as the National Broadcasting Council. The first question we have to answer is whether there will be any regulation on constitutionally established principles, since the Constitution only safeguards the four that I have mentioned. The answer is obvious: They are covered by both Article 56(3) of the Constitution and by the case-law of the Council of State. With regard to the appointment of members, this issue is of paramount importance, as it has troubled our public life quite a bit in recent years. A characteristic example is the delay in the renewal process of the Board of Directors. the PSE, as well as other authorities. I would remind you that even mistrust was expressed by the previous government in the Conference of Presidents as to whether it is possible for the latter to choose meritly and validly, with an increased majority of 4/5, the persons administering the independent authorities. We have reached the point of S.H.E.'s decisions. to annul the decisions of the independent authorities on grounds of non-legal composition, as the term of office of the members expired. This quasi-minority is not at all pleasant, nor is it institutionally insurmountable. Therefore, in addition to the subsidiary assistance of Law 3051/2002 and the most recent Law 4055/2012, to extend the mandate of existing futures until the new ones are fixed, it would be wise to review Article 101A in terms of reducing the consensus rate required in the institution of the Conference of Presidents from the existing 4/5 to 3/5 in order not to create any further malfunctions in the future. As far as Article 96(5) is concerned, both our rapporteur and the special rapporteur, Mr Davakis, have been covered. For articles containing transitional provisions, whose regulatory effect has long expired since 1975 or since 1967, it is clear that they must be abolished. Finally, as far as Articles 101 and 102 are concerned, we would say that the previous majority wanted to revise them, more appropriate to the fixed ideological positions on the left than because of serious pathogens that they may have. If we look carefully at the whole of Article 101 by the constitutional legislature of 1975 has made an excellent approach, complete and methodical, which describes the decentralised administrative, state system based on fundamental principles. This wise and general approach offers the joint legislator the basic basic choices that must be applied and take those measures which are in accordance with the changing historical, social and political conditions prevailing in the country. So I do not think that there is any - and there is no possibility - for supplementing, either for additions or for modifications, let us leave the provision as it is, to function. On the issue of local government agencies, Article 102 has also been wisely drafted by the constitutional legislator. The provision of Article 102 provides that the authorities and bodies of the local government shall be elected by secret and universal suffrage. Why should the analogous system be provided by the constitutional legislator? Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the recent elections of local government, the electoral system implemented was one of the mere analogous, with the well-known deadlocks that it created and forced the current government to pass its first law on the rule of law for the municipalities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Therefore, after all these adventures, the New Democracy does not propose to revise paragraph 2 of this Article. Ladies and gentlemen, the achievement of a broad consensus, when next Monday we will be called upon to vote on the provisions of the constitutional reform, with the top of this minimum guaranteed income and the vote of the Greeks off-state, is a step towards upgrading our political culture. Solutions and facilities through the proposed regulatory content of the New Democracy Constitution will also upgrade our legal culture. Momentum is offered for this purpose and it imposes it. If he gets lost, he'll be lost for all of us and for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u147	Thank you to Mrs Zetta Makri and to keep time. Mr. Drizzas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. At this final stage, now, we have already entered the section on local government, for which I will speak, the proposals for the revision of Article 101(1), Article 101(4), the introductory interpretation of Article 101 and Article 102(2). And from there on, there are a number of repealed provisions, for which there will be no special, more detailed reference. Ladies and gentlemen, let me start by making a reference to the very important role played and played in the previous House, in the proposed Parliament, three fellow Members - who have proposed most of these articles and have been incorporated by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group in our overall proposal - who are not and have not been elected in this House. I must, however, do just that, because they zealously and very much worked in that direction. They deserve me to report special. It is Mrs Maria Theleritis, MP Mr. Corinth, MP of the Cyclades, and Mr. George Chogas, also MP of Corinthias. The whole logic of SYRIZA's effort to put in constitutional review additional provisions and supplements or revisions, in relation to the articles at issue, is that it is not so much because of an approach that there is a need for a comprehensive, new section or that it is mature a major section on the issues of self-government with regard to what this Constitution has established, as well as for the well-established inadequacy of these arrangements, as they apply, to carry the professed by these same provisions and the expected effect. And I would like to explain: with regard to the issues relating to the principles of proximity or subsidiarity, top-level regulation, which the 1974 Constitution, and then the other constitutions, have prevailed, it is a long way from the experience and practical application of the real proclamation and safeguarding that I have mentioned. And, of course, there is always the argument that this is the case for the joint legislature, and we have heard it from Mrs McCrey, Mrs Matutes, from the majority, who has just spoken. We have heard this at the committee meeting on 23 October by the majority rapporteur, Mr Javarra, who, although he expressly admits that the joint legislator has not always made any major contributions, nonetheless considers that there is any recasting of the relevant articles, in particular 101, for 102 different issues. He also says that a wise legislator of '75 made a wise choice, expressed in a general way and even chose fundamental principles in the organization, allowing the joint legislator to take measures, which will be in accordance with the changing historical, social and political circumstances of each country. Nevertheless, he admits that the proposals of the SYRIZA, the proposals of the previous majority, perhaps commonly accepted by all the wings of the House, may constitute reforms, but in the view of the present majority they do not need to be. But let's see if that really is the case. In Article 101 of the Constitution, ‘Association of administration’, it states in paragraph 1 that state administration is organised in accordance with the decentralisation system, and this is indeed a section of a general principle that has helped developments towards decentralisation. The common place is, however, that this provision of the Constitution alone, that the administration of the state is organised according to the decentralised system, even though many decades have passed and despite the austerity of its wording, it is not sufficient. Questions are being raised on the question of the application of the Constitution, that is, whether it is sufficient, first of all, to formulate the constitutional provision or, in fact, whether it is more practically necessary than the experience of implementing it, so that the joint legislature can be encouraged, but also to have a clearer direction in legislating, in order to form a reality as required by the Constitution, in such a way that it is binding on Parliament when it legislates it. And that is why our contribution lies in the fact that in paragraph 1 of Article 101, which state administration is organizing in accordance with the decentralised system, we propose adding the phrase 'legally defines the regional state system', because that is why, from '74 to now, it has not been achieved. And one would say: "But it is the weakness of the political system, it is the inadequacy of the legislative work, it is...". But it has been a long time since we did not give a new push for constitutional direction, to which we all agree, as the wings all admit. The same paragraph of Article 101, which provides that ‘the joint legislator and the administration, when acting in regulations, shall be obliged to take into account the particular circumstances of the islands and mountainous areas, taking care of the...’ and shall remain there. We also have the experience that neither the island regions nor the mountain regions - on the part of the joint legislator, but also on the part of the state - had the full benefit to match the binding constitutional requirement. Is that what we're going to ignore? Are we not going to think that the Constitution here proves ineffective, even if the responsibility lies with the political system or the legislative function? And we are saying to add: 'Improving their integrated social and economic development'. It is not a flagrant interference, to God, we are fully aware. It is, however, what, under the circumstances, it can just bind the legislator and give real impetus. There could be other, better proposals. We also propose the interpretative addition to recognise the need to adapt the administrative model to the specific environment of island and mountainous areas, by developing specific operational management plans for them and by providing incentives for civil servants serving in them. Haven't we all recognised this in mountains and islands? Have we not seen that at times, while it is binding on the Constitution, these provisions are never implemented for the benefit of islands and mountain regions? And I move quickly, I would like your tolerance for a minute, Mr President, for Article 102(2). "So that the Local Governments that have administrative and financial self-sufficiency elect principles by direct universal and secret ballot with proportional electoral system, as the law defines," this is our proposal. And this law or another law, in any case, defines the establishment and operation of local folk assemblies, as well as the conditions and manner of holding local referendums and local initiatives at local level. A very crucial issue for both the principles of proximity and for the principles of directity and for the principles of the ability to truly manifest the regional organisation of administration and to upgrade the role of self-government at all levels. Finally, for social cohesion and for the enrichment of local societies, the participation of foreigners who have completed five-year continuous and legal residences in the country have the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the local government bodies and have the right to participate in the local referendums, as will provide for such a law. I think - and we think - that they are provisions which may - I repeat - do not have a central, emblematic character, but have a very well thought-out experience in the field - targeting, capable of giving special impetus to regional organisation, which is an element of democracy - and regional development and the role of local government. I should like, Mr President, to close by thanking all my colleagues and the first nominating House and the committee, which I have participated in, and now. I think that, in spite of the contradictions, we have made an effort to put each one on his side seriously and fully not only the concerns, but also the documented argument about the need for modern Greek history and its prospect of the reforms required by the Constitution. Unfortunately, we have left many things that we have not succeeded in converging, at least let us defend what we have been able to shock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa. Apart from the rapporteur, Mr Dritsa used his time as a speaker, and we thank him for that. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and four educational sessions from the General School of Kyparissia Messinia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The floor has been requested by the Parliamentary spokesman, Mr. Villardos, from the Greek Solution. The list of speakers from yesterday is Mr Avramakis, then Mr. Zachariadis, Mr. Gokas, Mr. Sedetakis, Mrs. Liikalis, Mr. Amanatidis, Mr. Folila and Mr. Capatos. With them we are completing and entering today's catalogue. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my last speech on the final review of the Constitution with two facts highlighting the true face of a government, which, while contributing to the bankruptcy of our country along with PASOK, is unfortunately not only economic, but also political, cultural, moral and social, has the incredible impotence to claim today that it has the ability to rescue us. Without any risk of danger, I will draw your attention to the fact that our nation, if this disastrous policy, both economic and geopolitics continue, will be very seriously threatened with its disappearance. The first concerns the government's extreme perceptions, on the one hand, of the creation of the state of staff and of the continuing bills with the dozens of last-minute amendments, invoking the urgency and, on the other hand, the attitude of its main rapporteur towards a member and a party of the Greek Parliament. The second relates to the budget, from which it seems clearly intended to continue the sale of public property, while at the same time starting from the beginning of 2020, the private sale of tens of thousands of auctions to be conducted by the abstract banks, those banks that are also planning to win again not with the 9 billion euros announced for the project "HRAKLIS", but with 12 billion euros, finding that the Greeks have now conspiracy and accept everything with their head snug. Unfortunately, as we have seen in the 2017 report, the government believes - completely wrongly - that Greece's problem is neither the unreasonable public debt nor the only one in the history of red private life, but investment and even foreign investments, although it knows that 2% of GDP has never exceeded almost 25% of domestic GDP. He believes, in other words, in offering, when even a small child knows - at the latest after the United States' Great Depression in 1930 - that demand is the one that can rescue a country from that moment on, which has been immersed in the recession. In particular, it is necessary to compete with the countries concerned with taxation and public investment so that there are jobs, domestic demand and the private sector to follow. How much more so when foreign demand is a summer night dream, on the one hand because the European Union - and the planet - is also going back to recession, on the other hand, because our economy's competitiveness has been lost, despite the vertical reduction in labour costs per unit of production, because domestic investments have decreased much more. It says, therefore, with the pride of the ignorant or slaves, that the public will receive in 2020 a sum of EUR 2,44 billion from the privatisations launched by the HICP, but without telling us that the HICP is a foreign company, a banker's bankrupt, with the mandate to sell what Greece has transferred to it, without even appraising their value: ports, marinas, energy companies, gas deposits, water, electricity, motorways - such as Egnatia, trains, lotterys, banks, real estate and everything else that Greece has, while revenues will be driven abroad, even more by strangulating the liquidity of our economy. The government does not even hesitate to create a stock exchange market in the energy sector, despite the fact that it should be aware that precisely these derivatives went bankrupt in California, the world's fifth largest economy, which even goes beyond Britain. So, of course Greece will have growth, but such growth, which will not benefit the Greeks at all. On the contrary, it will lead them to extinction, without any overcompensation, since the new owners of the country will have every interest in employing cheap foreign immigrants, who are already flooding Greece, obviously under the responsibility of the current government, since the migration times have increased by 200% since they took over power. As far as the issue of the Constitution is concerned, it is immediately noted that it is an agonizing attempt to maintain the bankrupt political system, which wants to legalise its criminal activities, invoking SYRIZA, once and for all, which betrayed both Greece and its ideology. This is reflected in all the committees of the Parliament, which New Democracy justifies the sale or other measures adopted at the direction of the country's monitors, saying monotonously that SYRIZA did so as if it were SYRIZA Greece. What is needed, however, Greece is not the repetition of the same experiment for once with the same rotten materials, waiting foolishly for a different result, but a new way of organising the state. This way should be based on the following five basic rules: firstly, a strong and stable executive power, secondly, an independent and strong parliament, numerically reflecting the precise ideological views of the citizens, thirdly, a truly independent and self-controlled justice, fourthly, a strong and independent local government and, fifthly, more importantly, the direct participation of citizens in all powers. As far as the first axis is concerned, if we hold a poll or a referendum, we will see that Greek citizens prefer presidential democracy. As far as the latter is concerned, the majority of Greeks are in favour of a mere analogy. As far as the third is concerned, literally everyone wants a real one and not just in the words independent and strong justice. As far as the fourth is concerned, which we shall be talking about next, everyone wants a strong and independent local government. Finally, as far as the fifth and most important, i.e. the participation of citizens in the governance of the country is concerned, it is a requirement of the entire Greek society, which now knows that this is the only way to recover Greece and never go bankrupt again. If all this is right and methodically started, Greece will not only recover its national sovereignty, independence, freedom and pride, it will not only return our children to their homeland, contributing to its reconstruction, but will evolve into the most beautiful, richer and happier country in the world, which is certainly due to our ancestors, who have inherited a unique civilization, but also to our children, who have condemned them to an unfinished end, because of our incredible irresponsibleness over the last 40 years. I now come to today's articles. 101A refers to the independent authorities. Pollution in the creation of independent authorities, which is a relatively recent institution, substantiates two versions: either that parliamentary democracy now faces problems in its operation and calls on others to resolve them or that these principles are imposed more generally and not only in Greece by the forces of globalisation, with a view to gradually dissipating and destroying the power of the national state. We believe that both are happening, on the basis of the kinds of independent authorities that are created, and the decisions they usually take against the basic characteristics of the national state. Recently, in Greece, a decision on the class of Religiouss in schools has been taken. It seems, therefore, clear that the characteristics of the decisions they take move in the logic of open society, that is to say, the logic of the free movement of capital, goods and people, of poor migrants. But that is exactly what globalisation is about to destroy the national state. Our view is that, instead of constantly creating independent authorities to resolve the malfunctions of the parliamentary system, it would be better to improve democratic institutions, particularly through the involvement of citizens in politics. In particular, as regards the revision of Article 101a, we have the following comments: Firstly, it comes for review with the strong majority of the two hundred and thirty Members, if I am not mistaken, which means that it is up to the exclusive will of the New Democracy to shape it as it wishes. Secondly, in paragraph 2 of the article, it is proposed that independent authorities should be established by a law that will vote a hundred and eighty Members. We necessarily agree with the idea of the proposal to be debated, but we propose adding a new paragraph, which will stipulate that, in order to create new independent authorities, in addition to what is provided for in the Constitution, the voting of two hundred Members will be required. Thirdly, as regards the appointment of the members of the authority, we propose that the paragraph 2 of the article should remain the same as the majority of the 4/5 of the Conference of Presidents. The Conference of Presidents should try to achieve the best possible composition of the members of an independent authority and not really be left to the individual majority. Fourthly, we agree on paragraph 3 to add a new subparagraph stating that the independent authorities are subject to the control of the House for their acts or omissions. As far as Article 102 is concerned, we propose the following: Firstly, we propose real decentralisation of the exercise of power and the establishment of the municipality and not just a formal bureaucratic decentralisation. Secondly, we say that there is a real presumption of competence in favour of local government. That is to say, whatever jurisdiction is not explicitly provided for in the Constitution's central government to belong to local government. Thirdly, we propose that the tax should be collected on local government. From the money it receives, it will retain the percentage allocated to it under law, while the rest will give it to the central government, so that the prudence of local government can be stopped by the government. Fourthly, the authorities of the local government bodies must be elected by universal and secret ballot by Greek citizens, with two separate ballots: one for the mayor or regional authority on a case-by-case basis, elected by an absolute majority, and one for the respective councils, for which their election will apply with the simple proportional system. If a candidate mayor or regional director respectively did not obtain an absolute majority, the election will be repeated next Sunday among the two relative majority. Fifthly, with a proposal from citizens representing 5% of the electorate, we propose that a binding local referendum should be held on any local issue. Sixthly, we propose that the present bodies of local government be publicly accounted for, before a public assembly, and that they lose their office in the event of a criminal conviction for offences that will provide for a relevant law on accountability. Seventhly, we propose any asset within the territory of a Local Government Agency - other than those of the national defence, national energy, telecommunications, national roads and railways - to be owned and managed by the respective Local Government. In conclusion, we are obviously in favour of the constitutional introduction of the proportional system to the elections for local government. We are also in favour of local referendums on the citizens' initiative, but these should be binding, both on the proposal for them and on the result. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minute, Mr President. Sadly, however, the SYRIZA law on local government has so many preconditions for holding the referendums that it will in practice renounce them. Finally, we are in favour of establishing local popular assemblies, but with decisive responsibilities, according to the Swiss standards. On the other hand, we disagree with the vote by foreigners on local government, considering that only those Greek citizens who are registered on the relevant electoral lists should vote. The information has already been released that the foreign registered on our country's electoral lists is two hundred and twenty thousand. Let us not confuse democracy here with the alteration of the nation. That would be extremely dangerous. However, our precise proposals for all the articles have been thoroughly analysed by our rapporteur and tabled, so we do not need to repeat them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u151	Thank you. Mr. Avramakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my deep satisfaction that as a Member I am taking part in the top parliamentary procedure, that of the Revision of the Constitution. The Constitution is a framework that defines our culture, democracy. It is the text on which democracy is defined and must function in our country. It is the text on which the rights of citizens are recognised, the values under which citizens, authorities, representatives and officials must operate as a whole. It's the country's Charter. It goes beyond the individual majority and sets limits, even to the very strong and difficultly controlled executive power. Unfortunately, in recent years the Constitution itself has been a victim of mistreatment by those political forces that have finally caused the country's bankruptcy. There has been a work of the Constitution and a service of specific interests for the protection of particular persons, beyond all logic. It is true that the debate on the Revision of the Constitution, both in the previous and in the current parliamentary term, is an important step, which demonstrates that, despite major political differences, despite the great opposition to the hierarchy of priorities, the political forces - independent of size - can agree on some crucial issues, but above all they can through the exchange of views compose some proposals even with mutual retreats to end up in consensual wordings. The difference of philosophy between the old power parties and the main representative of the progressive forces today, the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, is evident on a number of issues. The citizens who had the patience to follow the top democratic process as a whole, in today and in the previous Parliament, can draw useful conclusions on the real objectives of each political force, beyond the election campaigns and the various announcements. In my opinion, the final revision of the Constitution which will be decided to date will be more conservative than I would like, on the basis of and on the basis of the results of the procedure that the articles to be revised and the direction that they will have. The current government, a conservative government, feared to modernise certain provisions, so as not to upset its most conservative audience. The most important, perhaps, omission of this process is the failure to safeguard social rights as a whole, labour rights and the social state. I understand that the current government's commitments to economic oligarchy to limit the public and free social state, in order to provide more space for private and multinational interests, do not allow it to constitutionalise a minimum of protection for society as a whole. Moreover, such a development would not allow it to plan even the privatisation of hospitals or their operation in PPPs. In this regard, however, in the articles we are debating today, I would like to stress that it is a positive step, but not enough. The fact that the provocative provision that practically protected the ministers is removed from any prosecution, whatever crime they committed, is positive. The broadening of the control limits and the possible reference to justice is in line with both the desire of the public and the main requirements of our Constitution, which require equality of all towards the laws. It also makes it clear to Members that it provides them with parliamentary immunity only for their political activity and only for their actions and words on the substance of their duties. The government did not, however, dare to set the new framework, especially for the responsibility of ministers, with retroactive effect. In practice, he gave immunity to all those who have so far been ministers, regardless of whether they have been or are going to be charged with them. In general, of course, the New Democracy as a government has proved particularly favourable and diligent in similar cases. Undoubted for ministers, retrospective immunity for bankers, retrospective change of formal qualifications for the head of the NSA and many more. I think that bribery, economic crimes in general, are treated by the government with a leniency that does not in any way fit its famous ‘law and order’ account. In fact, the greater the economic crime, the greater it seems to be the leniency they bring. This leniency, of course, must be accompanied by the so-called 'government stability'. This, perhaps, explains the fears of adopting more proportionate, democratic, if you like, electoral systems. In fact, after 2010, the so-called 'government threat' does not exist in our country. What is there is other fear, the fear that, if many participate in a government, understanding and covering will not be so easy. There is also fear in conservative parties that, in the context of democratic dialogue, they may be forced to make concessions from their own truth. But especially what scares New Democracy is control. Imagine a legislative body that can really control executive power, limit it when needed, not to vote by means of party discipline, but must be persuaded with arguments. Imagine how tiring it will be for the ministers to convince a House of the aims and objectives of each initiative. In fact, for the New Democracy, 'decide and order' would be a disastrous option, that is to say, it should secure the majority and not have it given. This democracy is afraid of the current government, as is any conservative political power. They fear the democracy that everyone will be heard, represented and participated. This is the fear accompanying its apparent proposal for the vote of the Greeks abroad, the Greek federation. Fearing that parliamentarians may emerge outside party walls, as suggested by SYRIZA, it decides to finally divide Greeks abroad, initially by means of provisions that will categorize them in two categories: to the having and to the non-voting. The division of the Greek Ghost and its hard involvement in the political reality do not scare you, since you have approached this partisanly and you know what lobby you are addressing to ensure the support of the Greeks. It should, however, scare you from the vote of the Greek-Democratic Republic, to have such an election result and a government that is not in full correspondence with the Greek people's will within Greece. In view of the fact that this provision will pass as you suggest it, I call on the Government to reconsider its positions, not on whether to vote on Greeks abroad, but on how this might not alter the election result within Greece. Think very seriously about the fact that only citizens within Greece and residents are directly affected by the decisions and policies of the government and their will must in principle be reflected in the formation of the government. The link between the homogeneity and the Greeks is desirable for all of us, as well as their representation in the Greek Parliament. This, however, is guaranteed by the proposal of SYRIZA, which ensures the representation of the unscrupulous Greeks and universal participation by all those who desire it in the elections, but for political and party reasons, as is the proposal of the New Democracy, of ensuring the genuine expression of those who want the government. Finally, I tell you that the Constitution must be the guarantee of democracy and unite the Greek people. The consensual image of the Greek Parliament on a number of issues, the real debate and the world's maintenance of opposition to issues that were not consensus is a profit for the country, it is a step forward, it is a good picture for the Parliament. I too would like to congratulate everyone involved. I think and believe that the outcome of this effort could be better, but, mutatis mutandis, while respecting all this effort from all those who have done it, I will say a good one to the participants in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u153	We thank Mr Avramakis and thank him for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-two students and students and two teachers, from the 10th Kalamaria School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u154	Because in this morning's Chamber, the Prime Minister was sanitized by 3.5% of the coalition, I would like to invite you, colleagues of the Couple, to learn to respect it, because that 3.5% of social alliances became 36% and then 32%, because your party went bankrupt the economy and the country morally and worthwhile. Now, of course, you do not have to deal with this old 3.5%, you have to deal with the broadly progressive party, with the 32% left, which will be 40%, no matter how much you look at the 3% period. And you must respect it for one more reason, because the existence of SYRIZA in the country's sinking has enabled us to have a democratic way out of the political stagnation and a strong democratic block in the rise of the far right and the nazis. If, as the Prime Minister said this morning, you have a country to govern, you owe this to the fact that we handed you a country and not what you handed us over in January 2015. Because it has become all these years of crisis, memorials and social unrest a great deal of conflict about what powers are consensual and what are not, you are the most powerful force you are not consensual with, because with what we discussed yesterday you are abolishing the consensual election of the President of the Republic. One may, by a simple majority, appoint a President of the Republic. From the first days of your election, with special legislation you have abolished the logic of consensus and composition in local government and I predict that you will retreat consensus and composition in the central political stage too very quickly. A special reference to what Mr Varvitsiotis said earlier about Article 16, which he allegedly says is a defence of an established junta procedure. In any case, while respecting student struggles, progressive people, even people who can often be found in your own party, public education is something much wider and something much more than trying to narrow it down and squeeze it into a legislative arrangement of the junta. More and more, once in the center, are beginning to suffer "Vorides" in the New Democracy. The Constitutional Review, however, is not just about constitutionalists, MPs or lawyers. It concerns the citizens and the Greek people, because the Constitution is the text that condenses directions and possibilities for the progress of the country, society and citizens. Citizens see us, evaluate and follow the debate on constitutional review and testify to the fact that there are two points in the Constitution: progressive and conservative, left and right, to a large extent unconstitutional, unconstitutional. And this House, with a conservative majority, is in fact canceling the hope that a progressive constitutional review and the progressive institutional modernisation that the country needed and the previous parliament started with a different majority. Since July 2016, SYRIZA has taken the initiative to launch the public debate on the Constitutional Review, in a key and symbolic political context, launched the process to build Greece's first Constitution after the memoranda. A constitution of democratic and progressive, for a new memoranda of remembrance, a Charter that would take into account both the lessons and the adventure of the memorandums, with modernization of institutions, deepening democracy, rights, restoring the extreme conservative policies and constitutional safeguarding of labour rights and the treatment of institutional sins of the past. The New Democracy then, as a military opposition, reminded me that it had swept through the start of the debate, was indifferent to public consultation, and today the New Democracy is coming and rejecting any progressive proposal made by the SYRIZA Government in the first review process. Let's say it clearly. The New Democracy on the substance proposes a neo-conservative and deeply backward constitution. I would like to come to the issues we discussed yesterday morning and to say something about Article 86. Because I think it is a major issue and that is where a much wider debate is taking place nowadays and in society. The current provision sets a protective framework which causes reasonable mistrust at the expense of the overall political world and leads to a dismantling of politics. This provocative impunity of politicians is the one that has excavated the monster of extreme right all these years. Do you know which country this is happening? In our case here, where the "SIEMENS" case was to end it took twenty years and in the country where the "Police" of the Senate period celebrates and is vindicated because the offences were dropped. In the first review House, I would remind you, SYRIZA proposed adding an interpretative statement stating that ministerial offences are not included in what has been done on the occasion of the ministerial service and that these, in particular, corruption will be persecuted by justice rather than by the House. Let's be clean. The SYRIZA considers that this is already interpreted by the rules in force. It is important, however, to clarify, in order to eliminate, forever, conflicting interpretations, constructions, to close 'loopholes' which people may think of opening up in the future and, above all, to ensure that they do not lead to impunity already accomplished acts of corruption if they are being searched. The refusal of the New Democracy to incorporate this elementary and self-evident clause into the Constitution will be, under the responsibility of the Members of the Co-population, a serious attack on the political system. It will give public opinion the suspicion of maintaining unjustified privileges for the political staff of the country. Parliament and the political system as a whole have the opportunity to give this provision a clear signal: that for all persons justice can indiscriminately investigate and do the procedure, as it is done, with each citizen and will not be forced to send cases to the archives that have a great extent in public speech, such as, for example, it might be possible to do so with the case of "NOVARTIS". Which country is this happening? In our case, 'NOVARTIS' documentary on Swiss television found no space or time on any pan-Hellenic channel to be screened as a whole, whether they are public or private. There was a lot of talk this morning and the issue of the FINANCIAL TIMES publication. Here we must remember that these are important issues which concern a large part of society and no one should think that we are going back to the past and impunity. Because we must be honest in our relations with both ourselves and with the citizens. And I'm closing with that, Mr. President. The shielding of the future cannot be done with oblivion and impunity on the issues of the past. The country went bankrupt ten years ago and went bankrupt with specific political responsibilities. There is a feeling of injustice and impunity. We were very upset by the 'all of us together' - which we did not all eat together - the 'all of us are the same' - that we are not all the same - and the 'all three hundred steal less or more'. So here is the opportunity to turn a page into a whole page and the political controversy of the future to be on programmes and ideas rather than on whether anyone is in a process of justice control or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, too. Mr. Gocas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on a Constitution is a leading opportunity to demonstrate a spirit of consensus and understanding for wider and more changes. Unfortunately, however, with the main responsibility of SYRIZA - which was the previous government - and also of the New Democracy - which is the current government - for its own purposes, this has not been done and, unfortunately, many issues have to be expected in the next decade. The process of Revision of the Constitution, the debate on its provisions must be accessible and understandable to the Greek citizen, because it concerns and serves both as a process and as a debate and should stand at the level that serves to protect the prestige and the institution completely. It must define the framework under which laws will give answers to the issues and problems that exist, politically, economicly, socially. But citizens think they have been ignored, which is why they too are ignoring the constitutional review which we are discussing here. With the ultimate responsibility of the previous majority, issues relating to bureaucracy, administration and justice have not been touched upon and many others are afflicting the citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must consider social rights and goods which not all Greek citizens enjoy on an equal and fair basis, such as in the field of education, but also in the area of health and welfare. For example, they cannot have equal opportunities in education and education all our young people, regardless of their family’s financial situation. These public goods must be provided with absolute competence for everyone, in practice, and the issue of education is of course not related to the functioning of non-governmental, non-profit-making higher education institutions, which we are also not discussing. We cannot accept either the populist demagogic approach to tips, ignoring basic rights, such as the dignity, logic expressed in practice, but also in the theory by SYRIZA, as well as the logic of accepting social inequalities as a normal situation in a modern society, as expressed by Mr Mitsotakis and New Democracy. For us, as a Movement of Change, the concepts of equality, social rights have a particular meaning. We have served it and served it consistently, and this must be enshrined in the Constitution. As far as the articles are concerned. In Article 62, the previous majority of the SYRIZA has used this provision several times to ensure that parliamentary immunity is not lifted. These practices have caused and caused public opinion. What is critical of immunity concerns the Member's irresponsibility, Rule 62, which refers to acts or omissions of him before becoming a Member of Parliament or as long as he is a Member, but matters which do not concern an opinion or a vote in the course of the parliamentary term, as covered by Rule 61. We propose the reversal of the protection of the MP, namely the activation of the relevant provision at the request of the Member himself and we have done so and we feel honored that Andrew Lovertos, our colleague, demanded from us his colleagues in the Change Movement together to set an example of the equality of Greek citizens, resigning from all privileges that might arise from his parliamentary or ministerial status. In any case, the whole procedure cannot be a matter of parliamentary privilege, but of guaranteeing the validity and credibility of the institution without violating the principle of equal treatment, as for every Greek citizen. For Article 86 on criminal liability of Ministers. In all civilised countries, specific rules apply to the responsibility of the ministers and have been amended over time, as in our Constitution. Nevertheless, the view that the ministers are favoured, which fuels populism, especially during periods of polarisation, where political conflicts are out of line. The truth is that this arrangement is not a Greek invention, as many are spreading. Generally speaking, it stems and was formed by the Constitution of 1864. As is also true, with the 2001 Review, the regulation has been made more stringent in many respects, contrary to the communication distortion attempted by many, particularly by SYRIZA. He was voted in 2001 by the two hundred sixty-eight Members of the PASOK and the New Democracy. The 2003 Implementing Law, 'Great of Ministers', was voted for by both the members of the JRC and the coalition at the time. I now come to the deepest truth about implementation. In 2010, a board of judges was set up for the preliminary control of the category and for the assistance of the Parliament's work. However, for obvious reasons of individuals being dragged into the NOVARTIS case for years, SYRIZA refused to follow the documentation procedure, because the charges would eventually turn boomerang back to the government itself that activated it. In relation to the interpretative patents of the SYRIZA which attempts to distinguish between acts "in the exercise" and "on occasion" in the performance of the Minister's duties. If the debate on SYRIZA's spirit opens up, there are topics of limitation due to vagueness and even crimes, such as corruption and telephone intercepts. Ladies and gentlemen, the current form of Article 86 has not only allowed the criminal prosecution of former Ministers, but also the condemnation of some people on the basis of the evidence available. And much more so with the necessary review procedure under mature conditions now and with the presentation of the joint proposal, which shows that it will be adopted, the principle of equality of citizens towards the law can be consistently strengthened, namely by agreeing the three largest parties for the purpose of harmonising the limitation period with the time of each crime and not having two years or four years in force today. With regard to Article 54 concerning the vote on the results, for participation in the general parliamentary elections of Greek and Greek citizens on the outside, we have tabled the well-known four main positions of the Change Movement. Vote for those on the electoral lists, a vote equal to and equal to the rest of the electorate, a letter of vote and electoral districts or a foreign constituency. I'll say a few words about the letter vote. The need to find a compromise in order to vote for the law on the vote on the results and to apply immediately has led to the abandonment of the letter of vote. It's a mistake, as is other provisions that have been heard to include, even the VAT which, thankfully, was abandoned from what I have learned. Criteria of economics and not politically. Before I close, I would like to make a reference to the election of the President of the Republic. Finally, his election from the polls is disconnected. However, let us keep a minimum of seriousness and not reach a election with less than one hundred and fifty votes, or much worse with seventy-five or seventy-seven-six votes. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this will undermine the prestige of this top state institution. In conclusion, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that it is regrettable that we have finally enclosed within the limits an extremely important review opportunity due to issues that have caused micro-participatory purposes and calculations. Perhaps we are missing an opportunity to give a very strong impetus to upgrading the prestige and efficiency in the functioning of top institutions of our democratic culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Goka for his time. Mr. Cappatos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, every debate on the Constitution and its Review procedure is of course topical and it is necessary for us to show due attention and consensus. It is therefore up to us to stand up to this mission, not to throw another chance into the can of uselessness for small-party competitions that do not help us or the country. My suggestion today relates to two sections which include the individual revised provisions, with, more importantly, the non-violent Members and our electoral system. In these two cases, I will develop my mind. The first indent is linked to the amendment of Article 62. According to this, the authorisation to prosecute shall be granted by Parliament if the request of the public prosecutor relates to an offence which is not linked to the performance of the duties or to the political activity of the Member. In giving the House the opportunity to give its opinion on the request for prosecution and to decide whether or not its content is linked to the action of the person as a Member, we are responding to the imperative dilemma that is raised between the freedom to perform the MP's duties and equality towards Greek citizens. At the same time, the three-month margin, so that the House is responsible for its President's decision, is the necessary safeguard clause for both the uninterrupted opening of parliamentary procedures and the unity of the Greek Parliament as a Parliament. The second indent is set out in Article 54 and the addition of paragraph 4 concerning the exercise of a electoral right at their place of residence of voters outside the territory. On the occasion of this arrangement, the opposition to the facilitation of foreign residents to vote from their homes as if they were second-class citizens. But it's not like that. On the contrary, it is about recognising the obvious obstacles for thousands of Greek citizens to exercise their constitutional right. It concerns the lifting of an injustice by the Greek state to its citizens who were forced during the crisis to change their place of residence. After all, participation in the leading expression of democracy is not a process that can be put into the balance of the costs of an air ticket from the place of residence to the pollen. SYRIZA's special speaker linked the right to vote outside the territory of Greek citizens to the risk of appreciable influence of the election result. It is, of course, a reasonable leap, since those citizens already have the right to vote and the regulation is about being able to exercise it. But let us bring this argument to its real dimension. Who can convincingly claim that my compatriot, who cannot come to his island to vote, if we give him the opportunity to do so, will alter the election result? The meaning of the intervention is much more important and the substance of the constitutional reform is deeper. It is the need for the Kefalonite and the Thios of the dispersal to have a say in whose country he is a citizen. We need to keep the flame that connects our place to his children who were forced to leave. It is the need for the voice of our citizens on the ground to be heard by institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, these two revised provisions may seem to be inconsistent. It may be reasonable to think that the right of Greek citizens to prosecute Members on the one hand and the electoral right of Greek citizens abroad on the other hand are matters which, at first reading, do not find a common point of incision. But is that really so? The answer lies in the invisible thread between social justice, freedom and the rule of law. What's social justice? It is a sense of citizens that their elected representatives are not above the law, that it is the citizen's status that determines our rights and obligations, while remaining unaffected by opportunities that parliamentary status can accompany. It is, finally, certain that the Member of Parliament who commits an offence will not be unpunished. On the other hand, social justice is the Greek citizen not to face any obstacles to the exercise of his constitutional rights. To force immigration to find work not to be a brake on its obligation to vote for the country of which it is a citizen. After all, is it social law to form two categories of citizens on the basis of their access to the electorate? What's freedom? It is the ability of the Member to legislate in his conscience in the way his opinion dictates. To be prosecuted at the request of the Public Prosecutor for acts which are unlawful and not those relating to the development of its policy. He can say his view fearlessly knowing that the House of Greeks can decide whether or not an act is unlawful. Freedom, too, is the citizen who has been forced or chose to build his future outside Greece to be able to vote for the future of himself and his homeland, to have the power to shape the political, economic and social conditions that will allow him to come back. And what is, finally, the rule of law? But, of course, ensuring that we are all accountable, according to the law, and he is fair, moral and easily accessible. It is the choice to agree that we coexist because we disagree and disagree because we have the right and the freedom to do so. This Constitutional Review is the opportunity not to repeat the vulnerability of the past. It is the occasion to rethink the way in which we want to organise our constitutional function. It is the solution to the dangers of the time to bring back to Greek citizens the sense of social justice, the sense of freedom and the certainty of the rule of law. Let's not lose it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, too. Mrs. Liikali has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said in my recent position that the country's political life is addicted to the electoral process. I also said that we are suffering from a constant obsession with the election, an obsession which is inevitably transferred to political staff, to the media and to all those who in one way or another are actively involved in the political process. I also said that the amendment of paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article 32 on the election of the President of the Republic, which was discussed the other day, would constitute a critical educational intervention from the point of view of the political system in order to alleviate an irrational expression of our collective culture and has to do with the very common Greek interruption of the government's work before the end of four years. And I am using the term 'educational intervention', ladies and gentlemen, in full consciousness, because I absolutely believe that proper legislation is in the forefront. With the debate on the revision of Rule 62 of the Constitution, which concerns the non-violent Members, I think we are taking another step. A step in the direction of our collective development policy, this time with a view to the treatment of demagogy, an acquaintance of early and immature democracies. For some time now, we have ceased to be in reality and yet we still act as if we were an immature democracy. The demagogy, you see, is a characteristic that we will slowly have to devour in order to suppress corrosive, poisonous polarism that eats us as a political system, eats us as a state and as a nation. It is useful to remind the citizens that the parliamentary impunity is not some kind of trick of the country's recent political history. It is useful to recall that the parliamentary unreserved institution was established by the first more Revolutionary Constitutions of Epidaurus and Astros, from the first free Constitution of '32, from the Constitution of '44', but also by all the statutes of the country, introduced as a concept of good practice by other European constitutions. So this concept of impunity is a key point for the proper functioning of democracy, an institutional guarantee necessary for the independent political function of the Member, without which our culture becomes an empty letter. I do not obviously need to complement that in this case PASOK was again a protagonist. He played a loyal role in the role of an institutional reformer, a key role that characterises it throughout his historic path, further specifying the constitutional provision of '62 by two amendments to the completely relevant Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, both in 2003 and 2010, namely the Presidency of Apostlos Kaklamanis and Philip Petsalnikos, respectively. It could not be done otherwise, since PASOK first realized that the inflationary administration of the impunity from the House led to a direct attack on the principle of equality, against the law, but that at social level it was a permanent source of discomfort for citizens. The proposal from the Change Movement is simple, but you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say much more advanced than the proposals that have been put forward by both New Democracy and SYRIZA. We see, we believe that the Member should be directly subject to criminal law and only if he so requests by giving full justification for the use of the right to initiate the procedure of the inviolability of the Greek Parliament. That's not right, is that not politically appropriate? We therefore believe that if the responsibility is transferred to the Member, the indictment will cease, the collective targeting of the very heart of democracy by the enemies of parliament and the enemies of the right speech will cease. And don't tell me they don't exist! So I come to Article 86 of the Constitution, which has always been and repeatedly is a source of demagogic extremism and extensive remarks. And, of course, we politicians often help in this. We are helping because instead of limiting ourselves to moderate political speech, rather than confine ourselves to convincing arguments, it is the case that we seek their unconditional surrender, that we seek nothing but political extermination. In short, our political system is deeply splitting. We got a taste today very good in the morning. We watched the derby between the loose and the tight tie. Ironic phony, splitting, polar, man-eater. You know, I'm a new MP. So my friends have been telling me many times that they are very sad, and often tell me that they are nervous when they see us, they tell me that they are displeased and deeply sad. Other things await us and not what they saw this morning. So we're crusades. This is the title that, unfortunately, characterizes us. And it may justify much of our Mediterranean policy, but we are responsible, ladies and gentlemen, for the fact that we are avoiding fundamental self-consciousness. We avoid seeing our image, that is, ourselves, avoid criticizing. We do not see with the eyes of the healthy "I", but with the eyes of our problematic superintendent and thus avoid treatment of ourselves. On a collective level, we avoid ripe as a political system, tickle politically, refusing to evolve. Inevitably, our democracy in this way remains immature. And, for the truth, I would remind you that these two hundred years - in two years' time, we will officially celebrate our entity - fifteen Prime Ministers have been accused of their opponents and some names, such as the reformist Charilaos Trikoupis, the father of the nation of Eleftherios Venizelos, the unified Constantine Karamanlis, the progressive Andreas Papandreou. Innumerable, of course, also the ministers who have been accused by political opponents. We have lived with them these days, and we have been living them in recent years, but I am probably intimidated by what I am saying to you, because it is almost native to any governmental change. We don't care whether names, suspicions, political marches, even relatives, are being smashed, and at the end they are being acquitted. But at the end few or few are those who will really know what has happened historically and what was the truth, the truth sought. It is therefore a good thing that stricter regulation is, in the right direction, even better, but I think it is restraint. Self-restrainting of the political system from launching toxic categories. It doesn't make us any better. You know this system is swallowed by society, it destroys it. But the story is that these hoods, because of intolerance, people spit them out and turn them back on us. Not a beautiful picture. I conclude, Mr President, by closing down for Rule 54 and adding a new paragraph specifying further the conditions for the exercise of the electoral right in their place of residence, of the voters outside the Greek territory. We feel very proud of ourselves as a party, because we have tried too much even those who did not want to count the election result on the national outcome, we have convinced them that this is not a good position in the end. So we put the issue on the type of suns. Next week we are the ones who will highlight all sides. Vote on all those who are absent, those who are on the electoral list, equal and equal to the votes of the other voters, to do the impossible. There is room for consultation, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of letter vote. And Alaska is right, not just Germany. We have room for consensus. 'No' to toys on this critical issue, 'no' to fearfulness, 'yes' to openness and 'yes' to interaction with them, so that we do not swallow this system, which we at least want to honour and not to deceive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u161	Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, may I ask why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u163	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, with your discretion, I have said since this morning that because when I came up to speak, the majority proposals were distributed and within Article 54(4), the second I was entitled to take it sometime this afternoon, whenever you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u165	Yes, Mr. Loverdos. Later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u166	I too, Mr President, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u167	Would you like a minute now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u168	Then, when this circle starts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u169	We have time. Mr Amanatidis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Constitution is the leading institutional process. Today, however, the House is called upon to deal with a review of reduced expectations, which is far from the pompous and inexpensive proclamations of the previous SYRIZA government - ANEL for a radical review with a progressive sign. However, the progressive sign does not belong to those who want to take care of it or define themselves as progressive. It results from the actions and perceptions they have about society, the economy, the environment and our active involvement in a world that is constantly changing. The proposed parliament has forbidden the children of the review process to suffer from ideologies and a logic of the then majority that its eyes have not turned to the next generations, but to the next election. Despite the New Democracy's proposal to open up the debate on everything and leave the Review House, which would come after the elections to decide, there was no response. So we are heading to a review that moves to the minimum common denominator, that is to say to the best possible on the basis of the possibilities we have. We were not given the opportunity to touch the economic constitution, Article 24, environmentally equivalent, to improve the functioning of the state by imposing quality legislation rules, to break the state monopoly in higher education, Article 16 - there was a lot of talk - moving Greece into an international educational centre that would lead to the repatriation of thousands of distinguished young scientists and students and would put our country into the new international educational market of EUR 30 billion, which is increasing annually by 7%, thus creating a new important source of income for GDP. Things would have been very different if constructive and consensual solutions had been found in the future. It was a golden opportunity for the political system to be truly modern and reformative and at the same time daring for its time, that is, a lever for the country's development. Despite the minimalist type of review there are, of course, significant changes, which I shall refer to as a bridge of yesterday's day, because yesterday I was going to speak. First of all, the immunity of the Member under Rule 62, who is shielded only in the performance of his duties. This is primarily aimed at restoring citizens' multiple trust in the political system. It is necessary to add this addition, because although with the existing provision of interpretation, Parliament should allow immunity to be waived in cases where the offences are not related to parliamentary status, it has been noted that many times such withdrawals have not been taken place. It is characteristic that in the previous SYRIZA term for no Minister for any offence, immunity was not brought on the pretext that the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers should be implemented. Secondly, the vote of the Greeks abroad shall be facilitated and with the addition of paragraph 4 to Article 54. This issue strongly concerned public dialogue, since it was a pre-election commitment by the Prime Minister of the country to allow Greeks abroad to vote from their place of residence in the next elections. It is very important that this right is effectively guaranteed, since it allows the Greek Parliament to represent not only the entire people but the nation. The new Republic had proposed to the previous Parliament that the relevant article 51 of the Constitution on the question of the vote of Greeks abroad should be reviewed. However, this was not accepted by the previous majority. It could be in Article 54(1) without requiring the proposed addition. Thirdly, our parliamentary majority has come as a proposal to remove Rule 86(3), paragraph 3, which stipulates that Parliament may exercise its powers under paragraph 1 until the end of the second ordinary session of the parliamentary term which begins after the end of the crime. We are proposing the complete abolition of the deadline for the second session, which means that in reality the offences of the ministers fall within the normal limitation for all citizens and there is no discrimination. The special responsibility of the Ministers is a constitutional provision, which is always in the Greek Constitutions from 1844 to today, in an early form from 1822 to the present and has been in place until 2001 in general. With the 2001 Review, the relevant regulation of the 1975 Constitution became more stringent in many respects. It should therefore be made clear that the revised provision by the House proposed was only Article 86(3) and therefore any debate on the lack of competence of the House in politically incorrect, since this competence is provided for in Article 86(1) which is not a revised provision. We are the first parliamentary majority to abolish any privileges of the ministers, starting with the current parliamentary term. We fully agree with the proposal put forward by the Prime Minister of the country Kyriakos Mitsotakis since 2008, but, unfortunately, he has not been able to gather the number of Members required to discuss the abolition of the depreciation deadline since then, and neither has SYRIZA supported it. Ladies and gentlemen, no doubt this Review had to change more and better. The Constitution, however, is not available for micro-policy. Responsibility for the future generations, by a failed or unscrupulous reform initiative, is great and those who have not done all they can to achieve greater consensus on institutional change, and we should dare to act as a political system, will be judged in the future. Besides, the future starts now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr Amanatidis, for keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u173	You're welcome, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, I was very happy to speak later. But there is one leak, as I am told by my colleague, that for Article 54(4) we are all in agreement and are happy. We're not happy because we're not in agreement. I am not saying that we will not vote, but I say that we need to make a comment. Another opinion from the one in the Chamber cannot be formed outside the Assembly. I would like, therefore, finally to welcome Rule 54(4), but also to table two objections that the Change Movement has: Firstly, as is typically the case under Article 54(4), rules are made on the basis of which, on different points, a majority of three types are provided for in the Constitution. I think Mr. Katrugalos mentioned this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u176	For the first case of subparagraphs (a) and (b) the majority of Article 51(1) of the Constitution, i.e. the two hundred, for the simple majority, the majority, that is, the seventy-five Members, and, in the case of the formation of new constituencies, the provision of the Constitution obviously presupposes that, in order to vote on the electoral law and apply immediately, it must be voted on by more than one hundred and eighty. So we have three majors here. It's negative second one. The majority must think about that. It is not on the important issue concerning the vote of voters who vote in elections outside the territory that they are not counted in a particular constituency, but only at a level of dominance. What the legislator will regulate cannot be regulated by a majority of seventy-five votes. We are also calling for an increased three-fifths majority to be applied here. Secondly and finally, in an indicative list in the first subparagraph, Mr President, it is stated that the law which is to be voted on by two hundred votes may also include the regulation for the necessary person present in an election section. We store, in a constitutional order, the abolition of the letter. We disagree on that. And, secondly, it is necessary for everyone here to say that the historical interpretation of the Constitution proves it if the joint legislature after a number of years seeks the historical meaning of the constitutional arrangement, that this is an indicative record in the first subparagraph of the Constitution and it is not compulsory for the joint legislature to monitor this unjustified restriction, which is a compromise product, in order to have Article 54(4). Finally, Mr President, we owe Yiannis Giokas this. We hadn't found it, but the parties' proposals came now. I imagine, Mr President, that in a few hours' time we will be ending and that we will all have to have a "shuffle" of them right now. The mistake, since Monday we will have lists and we will have to vote, it is preying on them. That is why I have been saying since Monday every day that we should have the proposed provisions at night. Mr Giokas, from the Communist Party, pointed out to us that in the New Democracy's proposal for Article 62, as formulated by the majority, the provision currently in force, namely that the Member of Parliament is not persecuted, arrested, imprisoned without the prior permission of Parliament - verse (a) - in paragraph (b). There's here. Let it be solved. But there's here. Only prosecuting requires a parliament's permission. So imprisonment and arrest are allowed. That's not right. We are pleased to hear that the majority will accept it, and Mr Javarras has already made the relevant move. Thank you very much Mr Yiannis Giokas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u178	Mr. President, excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u179	Wait a minute. We'll move on to a congressman and then we'll continue to...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u180	Thirty seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u181	Thirty? Good. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u182	First of all, let us say that we have no objection to the second law which provides for it to be with an increased majority. For the letter vote, it is known that we reject it and ask for a personal presence. In relation to this issue, there is this problem. New Democracy's proposal for Article 62, while it says that neither persecuted nor arrested nor imprisoned, restricts after permission only the issue of criminal prosecution...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u183	By mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u184	Deal, by mistake. We're just saying that to get them cleared up. We are talking more about the New Democracy proposal, because by a majority it also has more chance of passing. But there is one problem in the SYRIZA proposal for Article 162. Why? In the last paragraph, it says: 'for other offences' - means those which are not carried out in the performance of the duties - 'as for self-righteous felonies, no parliamentary leave is required.' This simulation of other offences with self-righteous felonies allows the prosecutor to judge what is the case for which Parliament's permission is to be sought and which is not. That is what we consider to be unacceptable. In any case, if an offence is committed in the performance of the duties or not - and therefore the permission - it must be decided by the committee responsible and by the plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u185	Before I give Mr. Javarra the floor, would you, Mr. Katrugale, have the floor? Mr. Javarra, would you like to speak last?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u186	No, I didn't, Mr. President. As Mr Javarras said, it was a mistake and I imagine it was recorded in the Minutes, I am simply saying that I noted the observation of the Communist Party of Greece and we will make this correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u187	Good. Mr. Javarras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u188	Indeed, there is no question of it. The fears of KKE's colleague and, of course, Mr KINAL's colleague are completely obsolete. I recognise that by mistake and by copying this was created. We have therefore corrected and let this text be written in the minutes, which reads as follows: 'Application' and'relevant', refers to all three forms of denial of the restrictions on imprisonment, criminal prosecution etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u189	And the arrest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u190	And the arrest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u191	The necessary clarifications have been made. Anything you want to clarify, Mr. Catrugale?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u192	I would just like to repeat the wording for it to be clear. The last sentence of our proposal is as follows: 'For self-sacrificing felony, no parliamentary leave is required.'
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u193	All right, we're done. Mr. Harakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Constitution is an extremely important process in the life of a state. Depending on its scope and depth, it affects some or very basic areas of public life, political life, the functioning of the institutions. That is why revisions also take place after time, when reality imposes this itself. In fact, this is happening now. Having experienced almost a decade of prolonged economic, social, and I would say ideological crisis, we are at the beginning of a new era, which we are still looking for in a taller way, although with more optimism. We would expect, however, that this key moment would be characterized by a review more bold, with greater broadness and richer vision, as we now have repressed - supposedly - the imperfections, shortcomings and mistakes that have been inherited from the period of post-population, but also from the experience of the crisis we are experiencing. Unfortunately, this did not happen because, for our bad luck, the previous parliament had a government majority that did not want to take the big step, to cut off the umbilical cord with our post-political pathology, which instead defended and defended, and now with great warmth, as we can see, with the expeditious return of the Officer of Anti-Population from the Como of Social Democracy in the steep jackets of the course of the Polytechnic and SYRIZA of 3%. Ladies and gentlemen, if something seals this Review, it is the change in the election of the President of the Republic, because the spirit of the Constitution, which has so far deserved broad consensus on the President's face, has been brutally circumvented. Some did not hesitate to work on the election of the President of the Republic for purely micro-group purposes, leading the country to early elections. This bad tradition is time to end. The disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament and the early announcement of the elections is a step towards normality, which is also a request from the overwhelming majority of Greek society. Changes to the immunity of MPs and the responsibility of the ministers are important both in substance, because no-one must be discriminated against by law and because it requires the restoration of citizens' confidence in the executive and legislative power, which, during the period of the structural crisis that we have experienced, has been severely affected, with what this means for the stability of our democratic culture. In fact, however, the political history of the country - I dare say - is undoubtedly a provision for the vote of the relatives. A request for years finally becomes a reality, although not a complete one, as we would like, because of the need for the broadest possible unanimity in Parliament. In any case, however, this change is our duty to those of our compatriots who have been abroad, especially in the last decade. All those who have hosted and cared for their homeland have the right to speak, and that is what our relatives' participation in the elections from their country of residence serves, as is the case in all modern states. I am also pleased, ladies and gentlemen, because our proposal for a constitutional guarantee of minimum guaranteed income is a reality, a measure that strengthens social rights and raises a safety net for hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who have been, especially in the years of the crisis, in a bad economic position. However, the great victim of left-wing ideas in the Constitutional Review is the non-amendment of Article 16, which requires the State monopoly in tertiary education. At the time that all our neighbouring countries are finding private universities, while even in North Korea has a private university, while tens of thousands of Greek children study in private universities in Britain, America, Cyprus, with what this means to their families, we, alone, will continue to ostracize in the name of left-hand ideas, although many of their defenders send their children to private universities and some of them are teachers with private private universities. Such a humiliation! On the contrary, the previous government dealt closely with relations between the State and the Church, the religious symbols and the role of Orthodoxy, issues which have been solved since the birth of the Greek state. However, in this case too, obsessive ideas prevailed, reversing our traditions, questioning our identity and history. Our Constitution, however, has ensured the highest equilibrium between the prevailing religion, the Eastern Orthodox Church, in which, like the fighters of 1821, in two years' time, we will celebrate the completion of two centuries since, and the freedom of religious expression of all officially recognized religion, confession or doctrine. So there is no need for any change and no change. As also, no amendment is required for the vowing of Members. The legislator enables one to swear, if he is a faithful Christian, to the Gospel or to the Quran for our Muslim colleagues or with political oath, if he has any emblem. Why should the political oath be imposed on everyone? Why would few impose on many their beliefs? I do not in any case agree with the ideological obsessions of some, from whatever political space, to be imposed on the majority and on our traditions. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the review we are discussing is inferior to the circumstances. It is a bold and anemical Review in relation to the needs of the time. Another opportunity is being lost for the creation of non-state universities in our country as well. However, we have to not cancel it, so that we never again have to work on the election of the President of the Republic, as happened in 2009 and 2015. In conclusion, Mr President, I hope and hope that the constitutional review process and the vote that will follow on Monday will ensure broad parliamentary majorities in the articles in which their change is overtimed in the interests of strengthening our institutions and the confidence of our society in the political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u195	Thank you. Mr. Ypsilantis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are concluding the examination of all the revised provisions of the Constitution, which I have had the great honour of taking an active part, with interventions and proposals. I did the same in the Constitution's Review Committee, in more than seventy hours of discussion we have had. As a representative of our island and border country, the islands of the Aegean and the Dodecanese, I tabled a proposal - a commitment without any micro-political purposes I hoped it would be adopted by the vast majority as possible. My proposal was to recast the provision of Article 101(4) with regard to the structural criteria for legislative planning and implementing practices for the most vulnerable regions in our country, islands and mountains, which claim their equality through their specificities, which by their weaknesses with a structured development organisation can be transformed into a dynamic perspective. I would like, therefore, once again to appeal to the House of Greeks to look at the essential prospect of island and mountainous Greece in the struggles of the people who hold the modern Thermopylae. My proposal to supplement Article 101(4) helps with two key words in the future, firstly, the regulatory design of the legislative initiative and, secondly, the executive crisis of the administration, as well as the assessment of the legality of the judiciary, which, to date, together with only the voluntary perception of good lawmaking and a systematic constitutional crisis can be activated. These words are not other than the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, which are in force in the whole of our single constitutionalism, European and national, but require their more active positive presence in state guarantees. The proposal I have tabled is as follows: 'The joint legislator and the administration, when acting regulatoryly, are obliged to take into account the particular circumstances of the island and mountain regions, while ensuring their balanced development, in causal link with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity'. This wording, I believe, covers more fully the proposal that has been made in the House, which is generally and vaguely referred to as an amendment to the whole package of social and economic development. A matter that is general and unconditional and which has no obligation shall also come in direct legal balance with paragraph 1 on decentralised governance referred to in Article 101 and with the provisions of the relevant Article 106(1). This proposal is in complete symmetry with the fundamental provisions in force in the Union legal order, in Articles 5(3) and (4) of the Treaty on European Union and in Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This review was also a major opportunity, with the proposed recast of Article 101(4), to increase even the intensity of the legislative, administrative and judicial control, intervention measures concerning the most vulnerable areas of the Greek territory, thereby creating a guarantee of confidence in the citizens and residents of these regions. It would act as a filter of control over budgetary measures, social regulators and public policies. It is my personal duty, ladies and gentlemen, to extend this provision to the homeland, the islands I represent and the inhabitants who, with their presence and their struggles, give them life and prospects in the most sensitive national area of the country, to develop this provision from the Revision House and things in relation to this provision. As I also want to say that we have an obligation to return to normality with the return, as soon as conditions allow, of the reduced rates of VAT on the remote Aegean islands, at least to those that are at least a hundred twenty nautical miles from Piraeus, which, unfortunately, was delivered by the SYRIZA - ANEL government in 2015 with the third memorandum. Greece must turn to normality by facilitating transport, strengthening the critical infrastructure, upgrading public health and education on our islands, with full awareness of the prospects and difficulties of our country. Let us not forget that effective equality in the expression of rights and in the composition of the public interest, which is necessary to ensure, must be proportionate to the determination of all public decisions under the causal criteria of necessity and effectiveness and not with further proclamational provisions. I would like to say that with these considerations I have done a debt that if the parties really wanted to touch this sensitive point of the Greek island region, they would have done so. It seems, however, that we are only content with the great and not the ones that, in the end, can also be of national benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Papaliou, you will speak to Mr. Apostleus.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Apostle will also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u199	Yes, of course. There's a replacement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too shall refer to Rule 101(4) on the special treatment, treatment and treatment of mountainous and island regions. It is a proposal submitted by SYRIZA Members to the Proposed House, adopted as a proposal by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and in the Proposed House, if I am not mistaken, a hundred and sixty-five votes. It is a concrete, structured proposal that can be accepted by the Review House. The proposal to define the direction of development, as a whole, social and economic, for mountain and island regions, as well as to introduce an interpretative declaration in Article 101(4) of the Constitution, aims at specificising, specialising and strengthening the specific constitutional provision for the specific treatment of these areas. This highlights the problem of mountain and insular Greece and is directed by the joint legislator and the administration to pursue positive regional development policies with a view to promoting regional cohesion. It is well known that in our country, apart from social inequalities, there are also major regional and, of course, intra-regional disparities, which are mainly reflected in the mountain volume and in our islands. These areas have particularly spatial, demographic and socio-economic characteristics, due to their distance and difficult access from and from the centre and urban centres in general, to demographic ageing and to their accelerated desertification. Thus, they are not always easily addressed to general government policies and they need special treatment, first to survive and stay alive. Only by reducing or eliminating regional and intra-regional disparities can they achieve their full economic and social development, since these regions also have comparative advantages to be created and to be at the forefront of any development strategy. In this context, the proposal to adapt the administrative model to the particular environment of these areas is also in progress, in order to ensure the proper and uninterrupted functioning of public administration in mountain and island areas and to adapt it to the specific features and circumstances there. This means that state or other structures, not only must be present in these areas, but must also be adapted to their specific characteristics. As is also necessary, as we are proposing, special operational management plans and incentives for civil servants who serve them, but I would also add - and special development projects, which, taking into account the data of these areas, give them a life perspective. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] It is therefore necessary to define the development orientation of mountainous and island regions as an integrated social and economic area and to add the interpretative statement to the constitutional provision of Article 101(4), and do not constitute, as has been said by colleagues of anti-population, verbatimism or permissiveness. Specialisation does not include, as the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy said, restrictive elements, but indicative elements, which cover, I would say, the proposal of the former colleague of the New Democracy. I therefore think that this addition is absolutely necessary and does not constitute a further phrase in the Constitution, but it is becoming and must become the basis, so that the 'forgotten' Greece of the mountains and islands will be the subject of substantial consideration on the part of the state and I think that all the wings of the Parliament can and must support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 10th Kalamaria Municipal School (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in my last speech in this Chamber I spoke about hypocrisy and tricks in relation to how you handled the revision of Rule 32 on the election of the President of the Republic. Today's debate in particular on Article 86(3) - to make it clear that I am talking about yesterday, because yesterday I was talking, other than talking today - which is finally being revised, is a good opportunity to clear up myths drawn into Greek society and were especially gigantic at the time of the crisis. The first myth is that this special procedure has existed since 2001. No falseer! The special provision on criminal liability of the ministers, which provides for a very specific procedure through the House, is a constitutional provision which is always in the Greek Constitutions from 1844 to today, in an early form from 1822 to today. And it applied until 2001 in the same, in general, form. What happened in 2001, with a vast majority of the two PASOK and New Democracy parties at the time, is that stricter terms of referral have been laid down. On the one hand, it doubled the time within which Parliament can be seized, since until 2001 this year was the First Session of the parliamentary term following the conclusion of the act. With the Review of 2001 this time was extended until the end of the Second Regular Meeting. On the other hand, the House confined itself to a preliminary examination, whereas the hearing and, in particular, the referral to the audience was commissioned by a five-member judiciary, when this was carried out by a pre-examination committee of Parliament and by a decision of the House respectively. The second myth that is circulating is that the Left and the present Civic Opposition were not in favour of these arrangements. Also, no falseer. Because in 2001, the left did not vote for the Constitutional Review, but when two years later the executive law on the responsibility of the Ministers came, all known to us as Law 3126/2003, he was also voted for by the members of the JRC and by the MPs of the then coalition and now SYRIZA. I wonder, can you once stop making fun of people, making fairy tales with dragons? The third and last myth that was cultivated mainly among the citizens is that the other developed states in the world are supposedly not having such procedures. Also total lies! Because such arrangements exist in almost all the institutionally developed constitutions of Western States. In many cases, such as in the United States of America, parliament is responsible not only for initiating the relevant procedure but also for judging the case, turning into a court. Greece, therefore, belongs to the vast majority of the Western countries which initiate such a procedure. But let's think about it. Why do all the modern states have specific provisions on criminal liability of Ministers and start the procedure through their parliaments and do not leave all the relevant procedure to the ordinary criminal law? In order to protect criminal politicians or why, without such provisions, cannot a country be governed and the necessary political decisions be made, which would otherwise all be converted into criminal proceedings? Obviously the second answer is true. So stop slandering our own constitution with claims that the Constitution is supposed to cover the respective illegal minister. Because the Constitution does not cover any illegal minister. It provides for a very specific procedure by Parliament to verify any criminal liability. And one wonders: "Mr. Light, what do you say to us? That the provision does not need to be improved?’. Obviously, this provision needs to be improved. Even improvement that has not been heard today and is not being heard for the first time today. It was heard in 2008 by a group of MPs, including Mr. Mitsotakis, Andreas Loverdos and others. And then none of the Members of the then coalition backed this proposal. We therefore propose the complete abolition of the deadline of the Second Regular Session of Parliament. In fact, any offences by the Ministers will fall within the normal limitation for all citizens, without any discrimination. However, with its attitude, Acoustic Opposition shows again its true hypocritical face and how much it even puts the provisions of the Constitution under their micro-party pursuits. Because that's how he thinks he's gonna win the impressions. Even on such an important issue, he is trying to introduce a matter of retroactiveness, and he is well aware that not only in our constitution, but also in the Human Rights Convention and in the Council of Europe, retroactiveness of penalties cannot exist. Days ago - this is the most ridiculous thing in the case - the Civic Opposition was shouting in the Sports Bill because we were putting retrospectiveness in the mandate of sports bodies. And he's coming to tell us today about retrospective power in criminal crimes! At last, a little serious! Show some seriousness, as appropriate at a leading moment in our democracy, such as the Revision of the Constitution! See how you deal with this supreme procedure, Mr. Catrugale. Yesterday you came to this Chamber to support your proposal for a direct election of the President of the Republic, when you know that this is not possible. And it is not possible because Article 30 of the Constitution is not among the revised articles. And it is not among the revised articles, because your own Members voted against it, because your own Members do not believe it. And you keep talking about the impossible. Today you come to suggest retroactive power to criminal crimes. At last, some seriousness doesn't hurt! Ladies and gentlemen, we will not follow you on the path of populism that you continue to follow. We will do what we promised the Greek people, what the Greek people have chosen for. We continue firmly on the road to the necessary changes and reforms in our Constitution. We are making those changes that are necessary so that our state can transparently and justice move forward. We don't plunder, we don't girdle ears. With exhaustive debate and institutional dialogue, we are intervening on the major issues of everyday life and we are doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u203	And we thank Mr Fotella from the New Democracy. Mrs Euthymou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel very honoured and very much of the responsibility I have, by participating in this top parliamentary, democratic and political process, to revise the Constitution. Also, I feel like this for an additional reason. Apart from my postgraduate studies in Constitutional Law, I had organised an event before even the debate on constitutional review started on this subject, with Mr Javara as the central speaker, our rapporteur-general, with whose proposals I am drafting. You will allow me to make a reference first and then to Article 102 for local government. I think it is appropriate for me to make this assumption. As part of the implementation of the 1975 Constitution, Greece is experiencing the longest and most stable period of democratic governance in its entire constitutional history. This alone highlights, on the one hand, the regulatory scope of the current constitution and the need to defend its institutional characteristics in order to further strengthen and shield our democracy, and on the other hand, the direction in which its review procedures are moving so as not to alter their institutional and political character but, on the other hand, to adapt properly to the diverse and ever-changing social and economic conditions, which constitute the infrastructure on which the regulatory constitutional structure is based. Today the depreciation of the Constitution and of the constitutional institutions is undoubtedly one of the most serious, most worrying symptoms of the modern Greek economic, social and political crisis. "The Constitution is a letter void, it does not protect us, it is violated every day." These are remarks which go on and on. This is a rhetoric spreading in Greek society, which is extremely negative, dangerous in so far as it seems to affect the functionality and effectiveness of individual institutions - for example, the process of yielding criminal responsibilities to the government or the irresponsible of Members - is directly and seriously affecting the entire constitutional text in his heart. It hits the principles of the rule of law and democracy. However, this dangerous rhetoric from another point of view brings to the surface one assumption that it was necessary to revise the Constitution and modernise the institutions. At this point I would remind you that our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, was the first to highlight the essential need for the revision of the Constitution. And why is it imposed? Firstly, the serious economic and social crisis that we are facing has, as logically, disrupted the functioning of the political institutions by exhausting the limits of their effectiveness on several occasions. Secondly, the basis of the culture, the sovereign people, is developing a strong political mobility, thus immediately transferring the demand for a substantial change in the existing constitutional example, primarily as a political example. Thirdly, both constitutional institutions as well as their prevailing application and interpretation appear to be weak in responding to a series of focused but, nonetheless, there are political and social problems. In this context, it is clear that the change in the constitutional example was something more necessary, without this meaning that neither the Reformation Constitution lost its highest importance nor questioned the leading contribution to its civilisation nor that there was an incomplete and evil Constitution. It is clear, however, that his Review is necessary to address his negative rhetoric, to restore his symbolic meaning as the identity of the state, but also to give new answers to the unprecedented and unprecedented problems the crisis poses. So this is a review necessary as well as difficult and a very heavy task. Now, in this case, I would like to refer to Rule 102 on local government. The term local government shall comprise two parts clearly defined in Article 102. Locality and self-government. The above elements include the fundamental framework on which the organisation and functioning of local government bodies are built by the public and regulatory legislator. The questions raised are two: First, can the legislator, following the establishment of the Local Government bodies on the basis of the abovementioned components, intervene in their organisation and relocate to the basis of a different shape? In any event, is it subject to commitments entered into under the constitutional guarantee of self-government? And, secondly, are there limits to the power of the legislator to define the content of the administrative and financial autonomy of the local government bodies in its individual aspects that do not belong to their constitutionally regulated core? We, as a New Democracy, support the fact that the framework exists. What we can do is encourage the joint legislator to transfer more powers to local government. I was a municipal councillor in the Municipality of Thessaloniki and I know very well, I have experienced it, that the local government or the self-government has, as it deserves, neither financial self-interest, so that it cannot stand next to the citizen as defined in constitutional terms or as it should be. As a Member of Parliament, therefore, in my role and responsibilities, it is my duty to refuse to try to encourage the joint legislator to give those powers to local government, to strengthen both self-government and economic self-evidentness and perhaps tax decentralisation, always with strong guarantees of transparency. With regard to the proposal of the Civic Representation in order to record the system of simple analogy, this has in fact proved to be inappropriate, in practice it has proved that it cannot be applied. Fortunately, the current government has come, and by law it has tried to set appropriate balances, the appropriate conditions for municipalities and regions to function. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am associated with the proposals of the New Democracy and again stress my special debt at this historic parliamentary moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much Mrs Evthymou. Mr Evangelos Apostleou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall focus in particular on Article 101(1) and (4) and Article 102(2) on the self-government area and the mountain and island regions, where we have proposed improvements and an interpretative declaration that has not been accepted by the Members of the New Democracy. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years an attempt has been made to organize the country in a decentralised system, along with the introduction of the hereditary Regional Government. However, heresy has not been accompanied by powers, responsibilities and resources at local and regional level. On the contrary, it was in front of a decentralised administration that essentially operated to the long hand of central power. We, SYRIZA, SYRIZA's government, didn't stay in the proclamations. We made specific decisions as government and government. We have made the need for self-decentralisation at both regional and local level. For example, in the rural area, in the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, our strong political will to decentralise responsibilities, to expand cooperation with the Greek regions, giving regional government 37% of the programme's resources, i.e. about 1.7 billion. This is a very important initiative and part of the implementation of the agricultural policy for the country, which is based on our belief that we need to trust the regions in the implementation of policies directly relating to development and progress. In other words, they are the regions that know better than anyone else the comparative advantages of their territory for the productive reconstruction of the country. Because the decentralised implementation of the Rural Development Programme not only ensures the participation, acceptance and consent of local societies in the implementation of important development initiatives but also helps to reduce bureaucracy, simplify and accelerate procedures for the benefit of citizens, the beneficiaries of these programmes. The need to support mountainous and disadvantaged areas and island regions has also been our priority. That is why we went further than specific tax and investment measures, namely islandity for us, was not a form of speech but was accompanied by concrete actions. However, we need a more coordinated and integrated approach aimed at staying, through the improvement of the quality of life, people and better economic opportunities for those who want to allow their villages. In addition to investment and aid, there is also a need for such intervention and so much to serve social cohesion, i.e. it is possible for rural people to compare their level of life both in terms of income and living conditions to those of urban residents. And in this parameter, the main tools are those which can be served but also ensure adequate and complementary income. These areas are the agri-foodstuffs and the agri-tourism sector. The rural areas can, therefore, contribute to reversing or reducing the decline in their populations by exploiting these possibilities. But they need help. Above all, the European Commission needs to propose a strategy for the demographic problem, which gives priority to these regions and specific activities, in order to shape those conditions which will facilitate the satisfactory balance of professional and personal life to those who want to stay in their roots. There must also be an increase in the effectiveness of European and national funds allocated to mountain and island regions in order to improve their effectiveness and to serve cohesion, which is also one of the major problems in rural areas, which, at the same time, also means addressing the demographic problem. If these proposals are linked to a constitutional check, such as our own interpretative statement, which we propose, we will only then properly serve the existing constitutional requirement of Article 101(4), which says that the joint legislator and the administration when acting regulatoryly are obliged to take into account the particular circumstances of island and mountain areas by ensuring that they are developed. Ladies and gentlemen, after the end of the economic crisis and the memoranda, I would also like to focus on an issue relating to the need to draw conclusions so overall for the functioning of the European Union and our country, and I would particularly like to say to you on cases relating to the way in which public investment is distributed in our country, which, as a general rule, has been carried out so far in customer relations and the empirical diagnosis of needs. These procedures have made a decisively negative contribution to the emergence of the economic crisis. This must be changed by shifting the centre of gravity from a customer framework to a system of distribution of public investment on the basis of the needs of the economy and society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The effort launched by the SYRIZA Government - and I conclude, Mr President - in the area of work through the establishment and operation of the mechanism for the diagnosis of labour market needs and in this context in the planning of policies and programmes on the basis of needs must be extended to all the ministries, regions and municipalities, namely the whole development process and within a specific strategic development plan that our government has already completed. The mechanism of diagnosis and development needs is an overall necessity for the country, for planning, implementing and evaluating policies and programmes, to limit the possibility of reliving such an economic crisis, and in this sense it has put in the debate on the Revision of the Constitution the placement and the specific parameter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u207	And we thank Mr. Apostle. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned yesterday, the Constitutional Review is the top parliamentary procedure and it is important that we are Members of this Review House. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a comment on what has been said on Rule 32 concerning the election of the President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Change Movement we have made it clear that in terms of Article 32 we disagree with the proposal of direct election, which will, in fact, lead to executive power in the dominance, because the direct election of the President of the Republic gives him increased powers and strengthens him, not state but politically, at the same time, Minister, and at the same time to the core of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, of the Officerial Representation, your proposal regarding direct election is a preamble without substance, and that has happened while you were a government and have had the opportunity to bring Article 30 to a review. However, I would remind you what Article 30(1) says: ‘The President of the Republic is the regulator of the constitution and is elected by the House for a period of five years, as set out in Articles 32 and 33.’ While, at the same time, Rule 33 defines how the President is elected and even defines as a electorate of the House, you have never brought Article 30 to a review. So I would say that here you are looking and contradicting, that is, on the one hand, proposing the immediate election of the President of the Republic from the basis of a direct election and, at the same time, Article 30, which defines the electorate, does not come for revision. Nor, of course, would I say that it is a solution for the New Democracy's proposal to elect the President of the Republic by a qualified majority, that is, with less than 50 Members. The conclusions here are yours. However, remind me of our proposal, which he did in what way? He disconnected the election of the President of the Republic by means of an forced call for elections. Also, in terms of the vote of the abstentions of the Greeks, of the Deputies of Hellenism, we support the vote of the deputies with specific, of course, proposals, such as voting on the electoral lists and the polls of the country, counting the votes of the deputies as well as a dilemma, election of the MPs who will especially represent the demigrant Greeks. We note that they do not mean any reductions in the equivalence of the Greeks' votes and, of course, neither a vote on economic criteria. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to today's unity. Section 6, Art. 96, par. 5. Here we have a large majority, I would say, of this House, two hundred and thirty-seven Members, which a majority has agreed on the revision of Rule 96. However, it should be stressed here that, given that the military courts are made up of military judges and of soldiers, there is the question of how the soldiers are treated, because they are not military judges and therefore they cannot enjoy full personal and operational independence. That is why we have tabled a specific wording in the first paragraph to clarify in what context civil judges may be involved. We are going to Rule 101a on the independent authorities. Most of us here, ladies and gentlemen, agree that the independent authorities have been introduced into the states as institutions to respond to the credibility crisis of the state, to ensure substantial fundamental rights. Here I would remind you that there was primarily the American example, and then the European experience followed, and in the 1980s, the independent authorities were also created in Greece. If I am not mistaken, in 1988 we have the first independent form, the local radio committee, and then many such bodies are set up which are summarised, I would say, in four categories. First, principles that act as institutional guarantees, second, principles which exercise supervision over public administration, third, market surveillance principles and fourth, principles of a mixed nature guaranteeing fundamental rights, but at the same time supervising the functioning of the market. However, here I would remind you that following the Review of the 2001 Constitution, the Personal Data Protection Authority, the National Broadcasting Council, the Communications Security Authority, the Supreme Personnel Selection Council and, of course, the Citizens' Counselor are incorporated into it. It is, ladies and gentlemen, a top moment, because only their reference to the Constitution surrounds them with particular prestige and automatically, I would say, gain further influence and power, and they take away powers from the executive, putting the question of parliamentary control into question. In view of the fact that, firstly, they are placed out of the administrative hierarchy and are excluded from the hierarchical and administrative control of the feasibility and legality of their actions, and secondly, they are formed by members who can guarantee personal and political independence, we propose that it be clearly added that the plenary should exercise direct control over the administrations of the independent authorities, because today we see this paradox as paradox, the Minister should enjoy parliamentary control. On the subject of control, our proposal here is to aim at ensuring the public political control over the functioning of these five independent authorities, which are now also included in the Constitution. We also think that restrictions should be introduced to create new independent authorities, because today we have a total of thirty independent authorities. As our rapporteur rightly pointed out, excessive recourse to the institution of the independent authorities poses problems, I would say, of democracy, because it reveals a fear on the part of the executive to carry out its duties. With this reasoning we propose that the creation of an independent authority should be abolished, but also that it should be changed, that it should be required to require a majority of 3/5 of the House. We also propose the constitutional recognition of the Competition Committee and the Securities and Market Committee. Finally, with regard to maintaining the very increased majority of the Members of the Conference of Presidents, we propose that its members should be chosen and that is where we are, I would say, fully in agreement. With regard to the seventh section, I would like to focus on three points. Firstly, the need for digital transformation to be necessary in terms of management. We had made the proposal to provide for the principle of rapid and digital administration and at the same time to become a constitutional objective for the digital relationship between administration and administration. Secondly, with regard to local referendums, SYRIZA's proposal is against us. We don't enter demagogy talks through the constitution. Thirdly, with regard to OTAs, we propose that their legislative initiative should be envisaged by decision of the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, that proposals for legislation on matters relating to their powers should be tabled, which should be introduced into plenary for discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, the review process is a deep collective process. On the one hand, we have the increased majorities that compel us to seek consensus, and on the other hand we have a responsibility to the history and symbolic functioning of the Constitution, which sends to society the message of the consent of political and social forces and, of course, of democracy. Let us therefore bear in mind the decisions we take, to make us proud of the work we are called upon to accomplish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, too. We continue with the Change Movement. I invite Mrs. Konstantina Giannakopoulou to Stepma. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are eloquently ending discussions in the individual articles under review of the Constitution. We, in the Change Movement, stressed that we remain committed to the need to reach wider possible consensus on the necessary institutional reforms in a process as topical as constitutional revision. The Change Movement, although not having the required number of fifty MPs, tabled a package of proposals for a revision of constitutional provisions in the direction of the necessary upgrading of the functioning of the state, strengthening the role of the citizen and consolidating the rule of law. Unfortunately, however, artificial polarization between SYRIZA and New Democracy and the prevalence of tactics overshadowed the debate on the Constitutional Review, largely canceling the historic value of the project. As a result, the historical opportunity for necessary sectors and brave steps that our country needs to go ahead was unexploited. Unfortunately, this review of extremely serious issues directly related to the citizen, which does not change the procedures in administration or in justice, which he did not dare to change Article 16 as regards the possibility of creating non-governmental, non-profit universities, which he did not dare to touch Article 24 on environmental protection and climate change, has lost its historic meaning to a great extent. The next Review, which will unfortunately take place after nine years - and I sincerely hope that it will include all these serious issues - will take a long time. At this point I would like you to allow me to focus particularly on the lost opportunity of the Review, which concerns both the key and the many areas of Greek justice. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is more than ever necessary to raise and protect the validity of Greek justice and to shield the rule of law, not only because it is an element of the identity of our own democracy, but because it is at the same time a basic value and, above all, a basic instrument for protecting citizens' rights, especially the weakest. The shocks we have seen recently in the field of justice put this protection at risk and affect the role and control of all powers by the judiciary. This is because the citizens' demand for the protection of their individual rights and social goods is as important as the demand that he be protected from any interference or misfunction of the state. The Change Movement tabled and developed an integrated package of interventions to strengthen the independence of justice and its officials and to strengthen the principles of the rule of law. Our proposals for Article 88 included strengthening the role of Parliament in selecting the leadership of justice, taking advantage of the pilot trial in controlling the constitutionality of the laws, strengthening the functioning of the judiciary, reviewing the law on the Supreme Judicial Council, and the abolition of the justice court, maladministration court and military justice. However, under the primary responsibility of the previous government, the Review will unfortunately ignore the needs of Greek justice and, above all, Greek citizens. Our proposals have not been heard and we are therefore obliged to proceed on the basis of the proposals that have raised more than a hundred and fifty votes and to do our best in the provisions under review. Ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the justice system is absolutely essential for the functioning of the institutions and the rule of law, it is absolutely essential for the protection of citizens' rights, it is absolutely essential for the fight against corruption and, of course, it is essential for the country's economic development and relocation. Modernising the system, improving the speed and the quality of justice, which is the major issue at the moment, and consolidating its independence especially after everything we have been following recently, are key issues and conditions for the country's exit from the crisis. If, then, ladies and gentlemen, we want to be serious and serious about this top issue, we are putting a five-pillar package on which we believe we should rely to start this top reform. First of all, a new basic legislation. Secondly, alternative methods of resolving disputes. Third, electronic justice. Fourthly, an administrative reorganization and a substantially new judicial charter. And fifthly, citizens' rights and easier and better access to justice. We, as a Movement of Change, believe and believe strongly that after ten whole years of crisis, the number one reform to be carried out in the Greek state has to do with the reform and reform that the area of justice so much needs and which should have been launched by this constitutional review. We therefore want to complete a national action plan for electronic justice and its implementation, which has already been drawn up since 2011, and we still see it being cancerd. We want and seek to encourage even more alternative forms of dispute resolution, such as mediation and judicial mediation, but also plea bargaining in criminal justice, which we must recognise is the start of the new government. We want to reshape and modernise our basic legislation. There was a first start with the Criminal Codes. There is still much to be done. We want the Greek judicial system to be redefined to make better use of the resources available in accordance with international standards. We are essentially talking about a new 'Kallikrakraj' in the field of justice. We want specific judicial structures to be set up for family law in particular, or for corporate law cases. We want a body of judges, assistant judges and judicial officers to be set up, to review the system of judges and tribunals' evaluations, as is being done throughout the world, to strengthen the self-determination of the courts with care and training of judges, to protect the independence of the judiciary by the executive, a major issue which concerns us all, with the most active involvement of the House at first and foremost in the choice of the judiciary's leadership. We want to rethink and rationalise the cost of accessing justice, which we know very well is still high - that is our obligation to the weakest citizens - and, of course, to substantially strengthen legal aid to those who really need it and, unfortunately, do not have the opportunity to pay it. I close with this: Ladies and gentlemen, we need a more modern, more effective system of justice and, in order to achieve this, we need a strategic framework with a specific structural reform package. Only then can we optimize the future on a solid basis, and that is the basis of justice. This system seeks, therefore, to fight and believe, frankly, that it is a system of win, win, win, for Greek society, for Greek justice and for its officials and above all for our own democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty-three students and students and five teachers from the 1st Municipal School of Kalamaria of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Psychogios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are close to the end of a truly topical process for the Greek Parliament, which is the debate on the provisions of the Constitutional Review. We must recognise that a quality job has been done both in this House and in the House, with a level which the Greek Parliament has largely honoured. Of course, that is why we, as a previous government, gave all this publicity. We tried to open up the constitutional review in Greek society, in the institutions and in its collective bodies, in order to be a part of these changes that concern it directly. Of course, on this path of debate, our differences have emerged from the proposals made, such as the further safeguarding and strengthening of social rights proposed by SYRIZA in work, education, health, rights and the functioning of the institutions, such as local government, where, unfortunately, with the recent changes of the new government, simple analogues have been blocked, the collective bodies have been weakened, the responsibilities have again been regrouped on the districts and mayors, the healthy forces which have emerged since the elections have been dismantled, and we may also have issues of unconstitutionality, because we may also be talking about the frustration of the fresh people's mandate. So, in this section dealing with the provisions of the Constitution, we insist - and we insisted on the debate that it is imperative in Article 102 that the self-determination of a democratic European country should be guaranteed, namely the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in self-government elections to immigrants who are legally and permanently resident in the country. This issue has of course also been addressed by the European Union. Since the 1990s, the European Parliament has tabled resolutions calling on the Member States to promote the vote of immigrants in the self-government elections, a request which also meets the needs of modern societies. In this logic, such as Ireland, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Spain and others, since the 1960s, they have introduced this right in their own countries. Of course, this issue does not concern us in Greece now. There was Law 3838/2010, where their participation in local government elections was predicted under Article 14, which recognised the right to vote in certain foreign categories, according to the type of residence permit they held, provided they have been legally resident in the country for the last five years. The right to vote was also recognised in these categories of foreigners on two additional conditions: firstly, to know the Greek language adequately; secondly, to take up positions on the municipal council or regional units. These provisions were implemented in 2010 but were then considered as unconstitutional by the Council of State, with the result that they were abolished by an amendment of the then Minister of the Interior of New Democracy Mr.Michalakis in 2014. But there was also a strong minority in this decision of the Council of State, which even invoked the 2001 Review House. There have therefore been two Vice-Presidents and thirteen members who have voted against, stating that in Article 102(2) the authorities are elected by universal and secret ballot, as the law defines, and that does not exclude, but evenly includes the participation of foreigners in the self-government elections. In fact, they haunted their argument at the will of the 2001 review legislator, in which the phrase "as laid down by law" was formulated, and they also quoted extracts from the minutes of the then review committee, where our colleagues said that this addition to Article 102(2) would open up the way for foreigners to participate in the self-government elections. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know well that in our local communities there have been people who have lived in peace for years, with a great deal of service to the local economy, with participation in activities, even married and married to Greek citizens. So what we introduced to the Proposing Parliament and which raised an absolute majority with more than a hundred and a half votes, was that these people, apart from their work, offering and interacting, should have the right and the obligation to express themselves through their vote in local government and not have citizens or first- and second-class citizens. So we have had an opportunity which seems to be lost and that would certainly contribute to a progressive sign in the Constitutional Review. However, this is mainly about the idealism of the New Democracy and on this subject. I believe and hope, however, that the next constitutional legislator will see, take advantage of the material as it has been by a minority in the decision of the Council of State and, indeed, legislate this right, which will bring us into line with the most modern European practices. I am, however, a little out of immigration to go to refugee and because of the topicality, but also because of the debate we are having today. If both the recent announcements and the government's measures through the Government's Representative clearly show its position on the issues of both the rights of refugees and local societies, I think we should note a few things from this step in the context of this debate. So human dignity, individual freedoms and social rights in our Constitution are explicitly guaranteed for everyone without discrimination. Our Constitution does not allow categories of people of second and third quality who live on its territory. The European Convention on Human Rights, international law and European directives which you have even recently voted on, but which you do not apply in practice, impose the same thing. Except, however, from a top legal commitment and not by choice or luxury that the Greek state has to implement, these measures unfortunately also pick up the social cohesion established on this issue in SYRIZA. This is done by cutting AMKA and health care, a universal right that ought to exist within our Constitution, as SYRIZA proposed, through serious cuts, the right to effective recourse on the part of asylum seekers, but also through a universal detention of asylum seekers, families, vulnerable groups, minors, who are not only inhuman and illegal but will create - unfortunately - explosive situations on both the islands and the hinterland and return to us in the period 2012-2014, where the country was condemned by European courts and was divided into international organisations. We say that it is a complex issue, a complex issue on which we will contribute so that these people with dignity can settle in open hospitality structures in the countryside. We say that we are together with the 'Solidarity' movement in order to foster solidarity against hatred and racism. We are also saying that we will not allow our country to change its image in previous years, to devalue it and to go to the policies of Orban and Salvini, which are the ones I would say show European values. I would therefore like to close, ladies and gentlemen, by telling you this: our Constitution, a constitution that is indeed modern, progressive, could become even more progressive and that is what we should always bear in mind. It is the country's Charter, where society and its claims must be reflected. In no case should we be afraid, but we only have to win, if we give more democracy, if we give more equality through it, more rights and obligations for all without discrimination and more respect for the different and those who challenge us, to those who protest, because that is democracy. With these thoughts, then, I close my introduction and say that only in this way will we be able to strengthen our culture and our society, create interaction and create a Constitution that is a guide and a catalyst to any crisis that comes to social needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, too. The next speaker is Mr Dimitrios Ciridis from New Democracy. Let me inform you, until Mr. Ciridis arrives, that Mr. Panagiotis Skouriakos will then speak from SYRIZA and then Mr. Kamine will take the floor from the Change Movement as a parliamentary representative. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 1975 Constitution withdrew the pressure of the great crisis that took place in our country in 2010, and so we are now exiting the democratic acquis with insanity. There were many and popular predictions from Cassandres, especially on the left, both in Greece and abroad, fantasizing "Baimares". Our Constitution has denounced them and confirmed that it is the best in Greece's long constitutional life and rightly enjoys respect and appreciation not only internally but also internationally. There is no doubt, however, that our Constitution in the context of adapting to the new conditions had to incorporate the lessons from the sufferings of the major crisis. The Review, as formulated by the previous, proposed parliament, did not do so, and, on the contrary, once again, it largely succumbed to the constitutional populism which is the worst form of populism. It was not the security differences that would shield the country financially, but through an irresponsible constitutional verbatimism, the promotion of its ideas was sought by the then majority of SYRIZA. We have heard today from young colleagues from the Opposition on the responsibilities of the old political world for the bankruptcy of Greece. Are the responsibilities given, but has SYRIZA been an impediment before 2010 or accelerating financial derailment? I wonder, good faith really, when the old people gave ten, didn't SYRIZA ask for a hundred? So SYRIZA doesn't have his own responsibility for overchargeing our country? Is it not time for us to be a little more honest, and without theatrical theatrical to proceed with a fertile and refreshing self-criticism? In this sense, the review we are discussing, the fourth in the history of the 1975 Constitution, is to some extent another lost opportunity for the effective modernisation of our Charter. Efforts now of the majority of the New Democracy in the Revision House is to save what can be rescued and so we have the specific provisions for review, including that of Article 32, on how it was elected by the President of the Republic, since it has in the past caused major crises and dramatic developments and, of course, the provision of Article 54, which seeks to safeguard from any unconstitutionality the great national agreement which is about to vote on Greeks abroad. The provision of Article 32 is original in the world. It does not meet in other constitutions and emerge from the noble promotion of the constitutional legislature in 1975, to create wider political consensus on the election of the President of the Republic. In practice, it proved unfortunate, since it was a cause for the dismantling of the House and the provocation of early elections, in which the President's issue never played any role. We all know that the intention and spirit of Article 32 have been circumvented in the past with huge negative consequences for our country. Greece entered the crisis in 2010 and most of all returned to the crisis in 2015, due to the abusive invoicing of this provision by the then opposition who used it hardworking and in this sense anti-institutionally to cause the early dissolution of the Parliament and its rapid rise in power. So, according to you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you were unprepared to power and the country went to the nightmare minefield in the first half of 2015, whose consequences we pay and we will pay for many more years. The consensus reached in the proposed parliament for the release of the President's election from the possibility of the dissolution of the House is important and constitutes a minimum lesson from the crisis of the previous period. It is also a self-critic of the Officer's very self-criticism for her vocalistic and extreme populist choices in December 2014, and in that sense it is absolutely welcome and could well characterise the entire revision project. For us, in New Democracy, following the disastrous experience of 2010 and in particular of 2015, the revision of Article 32 was of paramount importance and the absolute minimum for the current Review process to make sense. In other words, without Article 32, I believe that we would not go ahead with the completion of the Review, since in the meantime we have sacrificed many and important things for at least five years, such as the emblematic revision of Article 16. The New Democracy's proposal for Article 32 is the only possible, since SYRIZA on his own initiative has excluded Article 30 from the current revision, according to which the President is elected by parliament. It is perhaps understandable that some in opposition regret that they do not have the opportunity to regain the country on an adventure like in 2015 on the occasion of the presidential election, but are exposed, wanting to get back what they voted on or did not vote on in the proposed parliament. The provision of Article 54 is restrictive, but despite any reservations you may have, it serves the highest national interest, which is to finally allow Greeks abroad to vote from their place of residence, with the necessary safeguards that they maintain strong ties with their homeland, so they are entitled to have a say about their future. This increases and strengthens Greece. Dispersal is our large national capital, which can contribute to the broader upsizing of our homeland. The Review House sends us a strong invitation to the Greeks of the earth, that we want them next to us. I firmly believe that cojabaism of other times has no place in Greece in the globalised 21st century. These two changes, Article 32 and Article 54, together with the rest proposed by the New Democracy, create a solid positive footprint for the current Review that strengthens political stability and broadens our democracy and that is why they should be voted on by as many colleagues as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, too. Mr. SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out the consistency of the members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group in Article 16, where SYRIZA does not allow private universities to be created. They were all mentioned, in fact, about the same architecture in their reference to the same arguments. Many of them with the same words. Respectful. I just want to say that they are now ignorant, deliberately or unintentionally, of supporting a government which has overthrown the creation of the School of Law at the University of Patras, which has closed thirty-eight university departments and a lot of other things that will give us the opportunity to discuss them. As far as the constitutional review is concerned, which is now over and we are heading towards the end, it seems that it will prove to be below the expectations of the Greek people. I am referring to a lot of things, but you will allow me to speak for half a minute. Very nice, we give them the opportunity to vote. We recognise them the right to vote. But we do not recognise them the right to vote. New Democracy asks for the government to vote for the people but not for their own representatives. We ban them, deny them the right to vote. You will now allow me to say a few words on the issue of the election of the President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA initiative to dismantle the election of the President of the Republic from the election process seems to me to be an important political chapter in the country's political system. It is an initiative of the SYRIZA which is an organisational part of our party's view of organising the terms of the political consultation of dialogue, of conflict still in a modern democratic society. We are dating, ladies and gentlemen, from a ten-year period in the period of crisis, in which we have seen democratic rights being challenged and forced intolerable situations by centers of celebrity without popular legitimacy, and by people who do not draw their strength from a body of chosen ones. The two parties you have governed, the New Democracy and the PASOK, brought us to the time when some technocrats of the European Union decided for us and instead of us. We put an end to this era by pulling the country out of the memorials in August 2018. We have proposed a roadmap in this Constitutional Review, which included a constructive motion of distrust, a simple analogue and the non-dissolution of the House due to the failure to find common place for the person of the President of the Republic. We have proposed a charter that ensures the strengthening of any government, rationalises the democratic conflict, and finally rationalises also the disparity between the votes and the power of the parties. So what is needed to ensure the functioning of all those that this closed system offers? A person needs to be able to operate through consensus. A person with strong legitimacy from his or her election and his or her obligations. A President of the Republic is needed as a regulator of the constitution. It is something that needs to be safeguarded in our Constitution, which will be called upon to seek ways and mechanisms that will inspire and, where necessary, force consensus even for the election of the President of the Republic. The SYRIZA, when we are now avoiding the risk of an election as a result of a failure to elect a president, proposed a process of successive votes, where the political system is forced to seek that minimum balance, since Parliament knows that if it does not give this solution, then the people will give it a universal vote. I would remind you that, after three votes to elect the President of the Republic, the required majority of 2/3 of the number of Members in the first two votes and 3/5 on Tuesday, Parliament is not dismantled and the votes are repeated every month until a majority of 3/5 is reached until six months from the start of the election procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic should have the power to carry out his constitutional duties without delay. And, of course, the President of the Republic cannot depend on the control of the majority. It is not possible to accept proposals like those of the government, which want a majority of the President of the Republic to elect a majority less than the one required for the declared. The evil bay of the New Democracy to vote in favour of SYRIZA's proposal to the previous parliament, which provided for recourse to the people as a last resort, in order to raise a hundred and eighty votes, and to need to revise this article in this House a hundred and fifty-one votes so that now the New Democracy is moving on to amend its choice, it cannot be accepted, if anything else for reasons of fundamental parliamentary dignity. The current position of the government goes in the opposite direction from the starting point of the previous period. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal you are making for the election of the President of the Republic is downgrading its legitimacy and questioning its validity. Throughout your attitude and your proposals in the Constitutional Review one is your agony, to harmonise the present Revision of the Constitution, in order to ensure the building of the Party State of New Democracy, the re-establishment of its absolute and repressive power, the return to normality of the Right. And you're not alone. You have good allies. Unfortunately, the highest rule of the country, the President of the Republic, is being dealt with in the same way. I'm afraid so. The proposal of the New Democracy leads to a deterioration in the role of the President. It is a deterioration that will make the President of the Republic hostage to the minimum parliamentary majority which has decided to elect him. Such a president cannot act as a regulator of the society. It will not be able to stand firmly and dynamically above party differences. Do you really reserve such a president for the Greek people? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the Greek people trusted you. He has given you the comfort of ruling with a hundred and fifty - eight MPs. Do not use this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, too. I very much ask Mr Kamine, Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement, to come to Stepma. Mr. Kamin, you've got a full of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for reasons of historical symbolism, I too welcome the proposal that the renumbering of the Constitution should end up in Article 114. Otherwise, I choose to focus on Articles 101A and 102, not only because I have had the honour of being in charge of the independent authority and then carried out two terms as mayor, but because I am deeply convinced that strong independent authorities and a strong local government are upgrading the democratic city. I will try to explain why, starting with the independent authorities. From the payment of the independent authorities, there is a horrifying automation in this Chamber at times. Politicians from all the wings of the House are resenting the political system, because it constantly appeals to the creation of independent authorities. I am not saying that they are completely wrong, but this selfishness, let me say, also contains a dose of hypocrisy. Let us see, ladies and gentlemen, the independent authorities which have constitutional assurances. Each of them fulfils a mission requiring guarantees of objectivity and impartiality, which in fact does not have the traditional executive power in charge of the Government. That is why our Constitution takes away from the government majority and assigns it to the enhanced majority of the Conference of Presidents. The enhanced majority is inevitably linked to the validity of these principles. On the subject of the prestige of certain institutions, I referred in detail the day before yesterday, on the occasion of the institution of the President of the Republic. I have tried to explain that it is absolutely incompatible with the substance of the institution of the President of the Republic's institution to show the institution of office by a majority. The Constitution, as it stands today, resorts to the relevant majority, since it has now exhausted the last solution to the elections. But that is exactly what we need to avoid now. It is not only necessary, therefore, but especially an integral part of the authority to elect it from the widest possible majority in Parliament, because that is the only way the President of the Republic can act as a regulator of the constitution. Similarly, the Constitution rightly provides for an enhanced majority in favour of the appointment of the five constitutionally guaranteed independent authorities, since, as I said, the mission of each of them requires that it be obtained by a qualified majority, which exceeds the one that supports the government. In particular, the Privacy Authority, as well as the Communications Security Authority, are responsible for the protection of individual rights which, as specific private life manifestations, are threatened by the mechanisms of executive authority. The National Broadcasting Council is responsible for overseeing the proper implementation of the guarantees provided for in Article 15 of the Constitution, thanks to pluralism and pluralism resulting from freedom of expression and information. At the same time, these freedoms are fundamental guarantees of the democratic culture. That is true, therefore, and this is where supervision of the application of the corresponding guarantees is entrusted to an independent body. The same must be said of the Citizens' Counsel, as this is a principle of mediation between public administration and private individuals, but it is also a protector of constitutional rights. The APRC is the only authority that responds to the need to respond to a chronic suffering of the political system, to the incompetence of governments, regardless of party colour, to respect democracy in the service of public administration. In short, in the clientele appointments to the public. However, the PCA, ladies and gentlemen, has saved us. At a time when I was a mayor, when unemployment had reached unthinkable heights, we claimed, myself and other mayors, unbearable psychological pressures on appointments. ASAPA was our shield. And not to forget, it is a creation of PASOK and this, as is the other three of the four independent principles I have mentioned. Of course, at times the joint legislator has also created independent principles that should normally not exist, such as the Public Revenue Authority. But here, we should do what we did with the SAPA. Instead of meditating, we can support the beginning. If one day it turns out that the Greek governments are capable of collecting taxes without resorting to any kind of customer facilities, then let us abolish the principle. But until then, let us not exaggerate with parliamentary control. I do not support, of course, that the independent authorities should be unregulated. Each one of them exercises power, and in a democracy there cannot be power that is not accountable. We must, however, find a way of monitoring which balances between independence and the necessary accountability. If we look at Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we will see that it ensures adequate control over the independent authorities. Check first of all, through the reports submitted and may also be carried out by the committee responsible, and not only by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. However, there is also an extraordinary moment of control over the independent authorities, which is enshrined in Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, in which the powers of the Conference of Presidents are regulated. Paragraph (g) of Article 14 provides that the Conference of Presidents shall, where necessary, invite any independent authority on matters relating to the performance of its tasks under the Constitution. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a form of control which is extremely active. That is why the legislator has chosen control by the Conference of Presidents, whose meetings are secret. It is wise to choose the legislator. It would like to see effective control by the independent authority, which is called upon to answer to the institution which has indicated it, which is the Conference of Presidents. Active control but discreet control away from publicity lights. Discrimination is imposed by the very nature of the institution, which is incompatible with normal parliamentary scrutiny carried out either on the Government collectively or individually on its members. Because in the case of the government the principle of government solidarity is being activated. Every minister under parliamentary control has, in general, almost always the support of his colleagues and the Prime Minister, as well as the political support of the political party to which he belongs. This does not apply in the case of the independent authorities. The President of an independent authority at the time he comes to the House is unable to count by definition on the support of anyone, precisely because he is independent. He's completely alone. On the basis of all the things I have developed, it is therefore regrettable that, rather than making sure that we broaden the basis of the independent authorities, we shrink it down. Look at the composition of the Conference of Presidents today. The Conference of Presidents shall have twenty-three members. Of these twenty-three members are members of the parliamentary majority. And we are reducing the four-fifths that are needed, in accordance with the current Constitution, to bring the members of the independent authorities together and get it to just 3/5 of the Conference of Presidents. Do you know what this means practically today? That it is enough for the twelve members of the parliamentary majority plus two members of either of the other parties, of any party, since all have a minimum of two members This does not give rise to a broad political basis to the independent authorities. It shrinks them. In the field of local government, I dare say that the Constitution already leaves us with enormous scope for strengthening the institution, since it complements the principles of proximity and subsidiarity enshrined in the European Charter of Local Government of the Council of Europe, which our country has ratified, and in this case has increased formal power. However, important steps were taken with the Constitutional Review of 2001. The new constitutional provisions of Article 102 introduced the presumption of competence for local affairs, authorised the legislator to systematically define the scope and their categories, confer powers on local government which constitute a state's mission, and, in addition to the immediate application of the clause for the transfer of corresponding resources - whenever it is transferred to local government, it is also possible to provide for local revenue that can be specified, defined and collected by local government bodies themselves. If, indeed, one reads carefully Decision 1181/2014 of the Council of State, one will understand that that court means taxes and not just revenues. When, ladies and gentlemen, the day comes when a municipality itself can tax citizens, then we can say that we have finally come to the ageing of local self-government. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that I am personally in favour of SYRIZA's proposal for constitutional ratification in local elections and local referendums for foreigners who have completed five years of continuous and legal residence in the country. The reason for this is obvious to me. We cannot talk about the essential integration of these foreigners into the Greek society unless they enjoy all the rights they complete at the level of the Constitution, the human person. Individual and social rights alone, therefore, are not enough. They also need the rights of political participation, because they act as a guarantee for the other two. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the vote of the non-stated Greeks, with emphasis on the need to maintain a relationship with the mother - home, it is not fair that this institution should be ignored for foreigners legally resident in the country, who work in and raise their children here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, too. We continue with the Change Movement. Mr. Dimitris Biagis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by following all these days the media in the written and electronic press, but also society and institutions itself, as well as the four consecutive days of the intense parliamentary processes here in the Chamber, I can only say clearly that we are in the presence of a Review House, which presents the least possible interest in the revised provisions. Our fellow citizens today feel that all that we are discussing is far from their everyday lives, the real needs of the place and farther away from their future. We could if, in fact, we really wanted to bring a future of constitutional review, focus on issues that concern, in particular, life and quality of life of our citizens. Unfortunately, however, the constitutional review proved to be empty, sticking to provisions on the electoral system and the committees of inquiry. Ape, completely incompatible with the needs of the current era. So today, when we are discussing the 6th and 7th section of the revised provisions concerning justice, the independent authorities, the OTAs, and instead of looking at how we will make these institutions more operational for the benefit of our citizens and our democracy and how, through them, we will end up with a fairer justice with a clear separation of the principle of separation of powers, with greater participation from society, I monitor both the government and the Civic Opposition these days in an endless game of reflection and communication. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the independent authorities we are discussing today, their contribution is indeed valuable and decisive in democracy. They are, of course, necessary for the control and supervision of the rightholders and, of course, in the current crisis of distrust that exists with the institutions, their existence is imperative. However, their role and position in constitutional terms should be very specific, as a possible strengthening and further strengthening of the independent authorities, it will cause an impotence to the executive to do its work properly. That is why we in the Change Movement also fully agree with the amendment and maintenance of a very increased majority of the Members of the House in order to choose members. We are also proposing to you the parliamentary scrutiny of the administrations of the Parliamentary Assembly. We have stressed that, if you really want to bring transparency into public life, we could quite well add to paragraph 3 of Article 101 that the House of Greeks should exercise control over the administration of the independent authorities rather than what is being done today, through parliamentary control, by means of the relevant Minister. Also, in the first paragraph of Article 101a - and I would remind you that the rapporteur-general of the Change Movement has stressed that I, in my turn, once again - the lawmaker's unrestricted establishment of independent authorities is not constitutionally correct. It shows an administrative weakness, an administrative failure, a bourgeoisie executive power and a pathogen in general. Constitutionally, it would be right if you accepted the proposal of the Change Movement for the establishment of an independent authority, the abolition of it, and the change of powers by a majority of three fifths of the House. As a legal person, let me also add, in my turn, that if we really wanted to originalise and move a step further, it would be good to see and assess how the independent authorities will play a more effective and decisive role in public life. In other words, in addition to what they have pointed out and mentioned more about the plenary and the three fifths, I would like to raise a broader issue: it would be appropriate to examine the overall upgrading of the institution and role of the independent authorities in the democratic system. In other words, there are independent authorities, such as the Competition Committee, the Capital Market Commission, the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority, the Citizens' Counselor, which play an important role. In the end, apart from the technical details of the majority in terms of their establishment, we should see an overall framework for the more effective functioning of these authorities. How, in other words, with these independent authorities, we will have a much improved function, for the benefit of both the institutions and the citizens, particularly. On the basis of today's data, how could the independent authorities intervene without undermining executive power and acting on the basis of the common benefit? Would it be advisable, in the end, to consider modernising their role and then, whatever technical details they have? To close, therefore, the current Constitutional Review, as I said before, is unfortunately not of particular constitutional interest or revives the areas that the country really needs. Ladies and gentlemen, we should all focus, but all, on a wider range of socio-political issues that are consistent with today's spirit and give the real support for a genuine regeneration, for a better tomorrow in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much. Congratulations! Great stuff in six minutes. Mr Philipos Loading from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, our Constitution forms an excellent institutional text. As society and the functioning of the institutions, however, it becomes necessary in some constitutional rules to make changes and to adapt the constitutional arrangements to the new challenges. However, when we tried to satisfy and fulfil the concept of consensus, ladies and gentlemen of the Grand Representation, I can say frankly and honestly that your ideological incests have not allowed you to go a step further, in the direction and amendment of Article 16, but also of Article 24, which concerns the environment. In any case, it is not only the changes to the institutional text of the Constitution, which will bring growth to the country, but also the well-being of the citizens, nor the more detailed wordings, but also the additions to the conditions, which will solve the problems which afflict the citizens. Our great stake is the way we apply the Constitution. It is also our political education, as well as our respect for the Constitution in the exercise of our own duties, as parliamentarians and as members of the government. So a challenge we have to face is how the House will adopt laws that will translate into the most effective and fertile way for citizens, the constitutional authorities. Similarly, the other challenge is how the government will implement and specialise the laws in such a way that it effectively serves the constitutional requirements. For such a constitutional requirement, therefore, I would like to talk to you today about the constitutional requirement of paragraph 4 in the context of Article 101 for the administrative decentralisation of the country, according to which "The joint legislator and the administration, when acting regulatoryly, are obliged to take into account the particular conditions of island and mountain regions, while ensuring their development". The provisions of Rule 101, in particular the provision in paragraph 4, were of the provisions which you proposed in the previous House, with your parliamentary majority at the time, to be revised. However, the committee - quite rightly - considers that these provisions do not need to be revised. So I respond to what I have heard in the committee, but also just before your special rapporteur, Mr Dritsa, and others, that the existing wording serves the ultimate purpose for which they have been adopted. So this superior purpose is, in fact, what? Firstly, the exercise of legislative and executive powers, in view of the particular circumstances of both islands and mountainous areas, and, secondly, of care for their development. This supreme purpose has therefore been sufficiently and successfully formulated in the adoption of Article 101. A constitutional requirement has been made and it has been adopted as a fundamental principle, on the basis of which the respective legislative and executive powers are obliged to act over time. But have they, in fact, acted adequately in the light of this principle and the House and the governments concerned? That is the crucial question. This is at the same time the crucial risk. It is not the Constitution or the wording of Article 101(4) that is at stake, but what the legislator and the government will jointly propose for the application of Article 101(4), with its adoption and its implementation, which is the quinteenness of a vital issue for our country, should one consider the special relief, the multitude and the mosaic of the large and small islands. The real challenge, ladies and gentlemen, is the horizontal implementation of an island clause in our laws, regulations and administrative decisions. The conditions are now very mature, in order to do Article 101(4), in a very substantial way. I am optimistic that, with this parliamentary majority and with this government, we will take many positive steps, in this direction, for the effective application of Article 101(4) of the Constitution, for the best application of the Constitution in general. Because challenge for all of us is how we apply the Constitution, how we have it foundation, lighthouse and filter for all of us, for our decisions, and how we respect in practice and the red lines, and how it illuminates our decisions. It is not the task of the Constitution to solve with its provisions and the economic and budgetary and development problem of the country. This is our sacred mission, ladies and gentlemen. Our responsibility therefore lies in all cases in the formation of sound institutions which are founded, prosperous and will develop the structure of our democracy. In this spirit, therefore, we are all here today to respond, to overcome conflicts and in a climate of consensus, but also acceptance, to proceed without delay to the constitutional review. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much. Make a gentlemen's deal. Mr Arachovitis, who is not in the Chamber, has the floor. Mr. Haritsis, would you like to give your turn to the Vice President, will Mr. Vitsas now speak, who is going to speak later and then is in the Chair?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u224	May I speak now, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u225	Depends on Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u226	Please, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u227	So Mr. Vitsats, from SYRIZA, has the floor. After all, the SYRIZA team is next, Mr. Haritsis then followed by Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u228	Because of age-old respect, that's what happened! It is the last day that Members are discussing the Constitutional Review, and I think it is appropriate to say that, as SYRIZA, we have made a great effort, for a very substantial constitutional review. Our proposal in the previous House also has an internal cohesion. There are self-evident modernisations that New Democracy has refused. The secular state is a self-evident modernization throughout the West. You want a church cosmic state - good for you! - to a series of changes that they need in our political system. What do you think the changes to Article 86 are? It is self-evident to modernize. It's not a deep incision. That's what we all had to agree on. We made it self-evident, no one would say democratic areas. Some of us are talking about them today, such as the simple analogue to local government, the vote of resident refugees and migrants, under specific conditions. There has been this in Greece before. We have also done deep areas from the experience of the Memorandum, the economic crisis, particularly by focusing on social and individual rights, particularly by focusing on common goods. You refused that, too. We stayed with these nine, in fact, provisions. This is something and I must say that the effort made by the rapporteurs of the parties in the committee and the help of Mr Stylianides - we have to recognise that - has arrived at us. We could be even worse. But let me say that the New Democracy has been crying and considers that it is not the terrible thing, because two things have not happened. One is private universities and the second is the commercialisation of the environment. I am amazed to see that the Change Movement for Article 24 proceeds with the same logic. And I have to tell you that, as far as the areas that have not been in the Constitution are concerned, they will sometime pass. At some point, man's right to the roof, man's right to the common goods will be safeguarded and constitutionalised. Don't doubt that. Man's ability to provide public and free education, at least in higher education, will remain. Mr. Darkness told you. Since you so much want, why don't you accept SYRIZA's proposals for a free introduction to tertiary education and for a number of schools, which we started and you stopped? Or do you think private universities carry any clients? Once he opens up, let's say, the private university of Kingston - which is not private - his clients will come to Greece as well. The only thing you think about is what we get, he says, from the EUR 30 billion pie and you don't think those who left Greece had studied here. You do not think that your para - previous president, Constantine Karamanlis, studied at the Law School of Athens and then went abroad. We have, of course, the case of Mr Mitsotakis, who gave his exams to Greece, went to Greece, but was on the way to study abroad. Such families once sent their children abroad, not poor families. And from the poor families, big women and big men have come out. From there on, I can also hear the Members of the New Democracy and Article 24. I tell you that Article 24 as it stands today, with the basic inspiration of Antonis Tuesday, protects our environment completely. You have a problem with Article 24. Because Mr Tasulas said - and I say it again - that the main problem with Article 24 is the earth. It is the fact that property remains unexploited. And what we should do - that was what he said - is that we should, firstly, put an environmental balance. Environmental balance means that we are taking an area, building it in Olympus - for example - another area we are raising it. And secondly, the forest maps from 1975 onwards. That's it. Trade, trade! Don't tell us you're cut for the environment. Article 24 justifies the environment and opens the way for us to have laws and actions against the climate crisis. He never prevented us from doing this. Secondly, I hear strange things. Let me not name anyone, although no one will come to ask for the floor on staff. I heard the 1975 Constitution endured the Memorandum of Crisis. Yes, sir. We have a good constitution, the 1975 Constitution, and with some changes - I would say - it is one of Europe's most democratic and liberal constitutions. But did he withstand the Memorial Crisis? What do you say, Mr. Kamine? What does Mr Pavlopoulou say, then, who has written a book about the relationship between the memorandums? What do you say? That he's endured? The underpaid wage was in the Constitution? Was the ban on collective agreements within the Constitution? The ban on proliferation was inside? Fuchelle--you remember Fuchelle-- he was inside the Constitution? There was all that. That's what he didn't take. And we're coming to build a constitution that'll last so that the lower layers can't look in the trash. A third I heard today was amazing, it's a world originality. The mere proportion of local government, he said, was shown to be inappropriate. It is a global originality that a law, which has not been implemented, has proved in practice that it could not be implemented. What proved to be true, through your intervention, was that two thirds of municipal councils have condemned this law. And what it turns out is that the amazing inspiration - I don't know who - to break up orders - with the exception of Thessaloniki, which they didn't do on the basis of the law, but by taking municipal councillors - was nowhere. And one last thing, because it's been time. Election of the President of the Republic and Constitution. It is clear here that we are going through, not in the logic of consensus, for which you are cut off, but in the logic of correlation. I want to tell you this and I'm closing. New Democracy will pay for it, because the Constitution is not for 2020. It is also for 2025 and 2030 and for 2035 and if you make such micro-participatory calculations on how to come out with a relative majority - because you may also have internal problems - the President of the Republic in 2020 may, in 2025 or 2030, have another connection, which, in my opinion, again unconstitutional and illegally elected another President. Unfortunately, the President will not guarantee the consent of the Greek people. It will not have a strong - I would say - in the presence of unity, but it will be the expression of the correlation between the parties and possibly an expression of the correlation within each of the ruling parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, too. We continue with SYRIZA and I very much ask Mr. Alexander Haritsis to take the floor. Mr. Haritsis, you have eight whole minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with a field which I think is extremely critical and which concerns me very much. It's that of local government. And it is crucial for how we view precisely the relationship between citizens and politics, and in this field, the central question of the next day's planning for Greek society is reflected. I would therefore remind you of SYRIZA's proposal to revise articles of the Constitution relating to local government, in order to show what is the main dividend in our debate today, among those who seek to shield and deepen the country's charter and those that are suited yesterday, to knowing what we already know. I was also surprised that I just heard a New Democracy MEP talk about Article 101, and especially paragraph 4. So SYRIZA was precisely the political force, which suggested completing the specific provision of the Constitution. This refers to the obligation of the joint legislator and administration to take account of the particular circumstances of island and mountain areas in our country, while ensuring their development. We therefore believe that the general and vague reference to development has, from the experience of at least to date, shown that, with the exception of minimum exceptions, this explicit provision of the Constitution for the island and mountain regions has been left empty, in practice it has not worked, so we have proposed, on the one hand, that it be added to paragraph 4 that it is for the whole social and economic development of the island regions and, on the other hand, for Article 101 we have proposed an interpretative addition, which recognises the need to adapt the administrative model to the particular environment of island and mountain regions, by drawing up specific operational plans for them and by providing incentives for civil servants who are serving in them. This comes to complement an overall policy, which we have done over the last four years, in relation to the remote, island regions, the mountain regions of our country, which have operated as a poor relative for the political system over the past decades. This proposal we have tabled has been given the assent of the JRC and Mera25. Sadly, however, the New Democracy, the Greek Solution and the KINAL have taken the position of staying the same way. Even more important is SYRIZA's proposal for the revision of Article 102(2), which refers to the administrative and financial autonomy of the ATTs. There, therefore, the proposal that we have tabled - and I quote it again here, because it is particularly important to me - is that the authorities of local government are elected by direct, universal and secret ballot and by a proportional electoral system, as laid down by law. The law defines the establishment and operation of local folk assemblies, as well as the conditions and manner of holding local referendums and local initiatives at local level. Foreigners, who have completed five years of continuous and legal residence in the country, have the right to vote and to stand in local elections and participate in local referendums, as laid down in law. It is therefore a proposal to modernise the framework, which expresses our deep conviction that democracy is the necessary and capable treaty, so that local government can leave behind the paths, the shortcomings, the plights of the past, the phenomena of corruption, customer relations, apathy of citizens, the degeneration of self-government in a long hand of the central state and finally turn into a credible institution which ensures social, economic and cultural development of local communities. How was New Democracy placed against these SYRIZA proposals for local government? As far as the Revision of the Constitution is concerned, it was placed with one more "as it is" to change nothing. As far as legislative initiatives are concerned, unfortunately, even worse, because we have seen within the clear-time legislative initiative of the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, with the back substantially, the personal-centered management model and the pathogens, which we know are accompanying it. Thus, the Government of New Democracy in August practically dismantled "CLISTHEN", on the pretext of the problem of cybercy, without, of course, allowing this very important reform to be implemented, so that we can see in practice what is working and what is not. So it is this ghost of "as it is" that nothing changes to the main modernist initiatives of SYRIZA, which runs the policy of the New Democracy. This illustrates the New Democracy's stance in a topical process, in a historic opportunity, in the big question of whether we are ready and ready to take a decisive step forward towards deepening our democracy. Why, in my opinion, is the basic nuclear question, which needs to be answered: it is enough for us to take the convenient and many times, as we have seen in recent years, dangerous yesterday, which led to the country's bankruptcy, or do we want by pressing firmly in our constitutional history to take a step towards tomorrow? The debate that has already begun since 2006 since the SYRIZA governance period reveals that we have a completely different answer to this question. SYRIZA's proposal, as a whole, for constitutional review, includes radical areas aimed at modernising the culture, deepening democracy, extending social rights, combating structural deficiencies of the past. It seems, however, that some in government headquarters are not ready to accept such proposals. Why, of course, it is not possible in 2019 for European Greece to be a country where the government's party refuses the right to protection of life to all, without discrimination of sex and sexual orientation. Why is it not possible, in 2019, European Greece is a country where the government's party refuses that the distinctiveness of the roles of the State and Church must be quite clear. Why, in 2019, it is not possible for European Greece to be a country where the government's party refuses to guarantee, through universal social services and income support, a decent level of living for all. It's possible, though. Because, now, it is evident that under the liberal veils of the New Democracy there is a hard core of neoconservative perceptions, an ideological core, which is comfortable talking to the Greek Solution, who steadfastly wants to turn us back to the era of the criminalisation of blasphemy, which considers that the state's only obligation is to suppress social resistance and to suspend every step of institutional modernization. The SYRIZA proposal, however, is not limited to what I have just mentioned. On the contrary, it also contains very specific, very clear proposals on a very critical issue, the defence of democracy, through the fight against corruption and, in particular, the unacceptable immunity of political staff. There is no ideological pretext there that can invoke the government's line. Because one of the major victims of the crisis was the confidence of the citizens in the institutions, which suffered a very overwhelming blow in the years of the crisis. Our democracy has been denounced in cases where political faces have been found accountable for serious cases of corruption. What did the old political system do? At the same time as some were talking about Greek and Greek women living above their powers, they considered it perfectly normal to see black political money, they considered the practice of sea-fashioning perfectly legitimate in great economic interests, perfectly normal the practice of fortification behind immunity, so that these cases would not be investigated. There, therefore, New Democracy and the Movement of Change, together, decide to say 'as it is', in Article 86, or more precisely to refuse to vote in favour of the interpretative declaration, which allows for very important cases of the dismantling of public money and of scandals involving political persons. I think, however, that for the Greek society this 'as it is' cannot be the message. The reason is simple: the economic crisis and its consequences do not allow us to return to 1986 or 2001. On the contrary, they force us to incorporate the experience of the crisis and to see how the statute of our constitution will reflect the intention and will of the state for a social contract. That will shield democracy and inspire confidence in the citizens. This confidence, of course, cannot arise from the attitude of the neoliberals, who envision infrastructure demolition, the divestment of public property. Nor, of course, can it arise from the attitude of neo-conservatives, who are terrified by the idea that Greece is a modern democracy, which recognises rights to all and everyone, regardless of religious, sexual or other orientations. Nor, of course, can it arise from the attitude of the old political system, which is laudable with any change, which would lead to the scandals being investigated and which was primarily concerned with the service of micro-political interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Haritsis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u232	I shall conclude, Mr President. As SYRIZA, we are proud that the proposal that we tabled on the Constitutional Review is a comprehensive proposal, is a documented proposal, a proposal that talks with the major challenges of the 21st century, which incorporates the experience of the crisis, which is addressed to the citizens with a proposal for a new social and political contract. We are therefore proud that this proposal, regardless of the final - fierce as it seems - the result of the Constitutional Review will ultimately be the roadmap for Greece tomorrow, for Greece rights and dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, too. Mr Triantafylides has the floor from SYRIZA. Today, however, Thessaloniki has moved to the capital! Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they attend the meeting, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall, thirty a student and students and three attendants of the educational school 1st experimental Municipal School of Municipal Education of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to the National Representation with personal sensitivity and patriotic responsibility for my relationship with the expatriates, as it has been built for thirty consecutive years both in the capacity of journalist and reporters, articles, interviews and television tributes to homogenous Hellenism, as well as in the honorary position of the President of the Permanent Special Committee of the Parliament for the Greek Diaspora. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] I am tabling the unanimously adopted roadmap with the seventeen joint action points - a tool for the next and next Members and MPs. It has been sent to three and a half thousand federations in Greek and English, with the presence of all colleagues from all the parties, with these seventeen points which could constitute what we said in our committee, that our family unites us. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The high hierarchy of the issue of the relationship between the deceased Greeks and the national center as one of the most important issues of the Review, could only be positively assessed. After all, we are not talking - and here I should like to correct some colleagues - about giving the right to vote on the part of the relatives. We're talking about facilitating the exercise of the right. The right of Greek expatriates, enrolled in the polls and therefore in the electoral registers already have it. We don't give them what they already own. However, it could not be positive - and it was almost expected - the micro-participatory way of managing this issue, that is, the majority vote on it. I don't want to do a trial of intent. I will await the draft law, which will specify the constitutional provisions of Article 54(4) to reflect your real and in detail. Homogeneity is a valuable asset, which no one can and must play with it. It is the other Greece, Greece and the family that unites us, "and anyone who does not understand, does not know where he is walking and where he is going" as it refers to the Greeks of the Greeks who are in Chicago in - as the lyscopian says - lives in the hostel. You have discovered a great deal of kinship and their vote, because this is what seems to be of interest. You also strongly underline this in the phrase 'to measure their vote on the overall election result'. The intent of the vote to take place in no more than fifteen years' time, since Rule 51(4) was passed by the 2001 Review House. And until the coming of SYRIZA in 2015, you had never done anything in the direction of seeking consensus, co-operatives, compositions, in order to find the two-vote votes of the MPs, except incomplete and fruitless attempt in April 2009. Anyone looking back to the Minutes of the House in April 2009 will record the intense reflection and stress of the necessity not only of facilitating the election, but also of the elected, on the part of the relatives. The right to vote and to stand as part of the whole democratic process must be exercised in full by all the Greeks, as must the Greeks who live on Greek territory. And not the defective, distorting and ultimately distorting procedure of the right to vote, which is not complemented by the other half which is the right to vote. Just to say it more straightforward. Will it really be paradoxical to vote by the relative from Chicago, Melbourne, Frankfurt, Rostoff and choose MPs from Thessaloniki, Chania, Heraklion and Corfu to represent what? How much do the Greek MPs know about the problems, the daily life of the Greek Parliament, his anguish about him and his children, the Greek emigration? Our proposal, the SYRIZA proposal, concerns not only the right to vote. Homogeneity needs their own representatives in the national Parliament, in order to genuinely transfer the problems of Greek-language education, the adaptation of migrants to the host countries, the obstacles to potential investments by the relatives in Greece, their relationship with the Greek administration and their suffering from bureaucracy in embassies and consulates. The promoted, but mature, proposal by SYRIZA for the election of up to twelve MPs from the Greek community expands the possibility of intervening in the Greek political events, giving an institutional step to the Greek MPs, in order to hear the voice of the family purely and inmediately and to remove the justified complaint of the family that the national center, Athena, Greece, only remembers the homogeneity in the difficult turns of history. I tabled my proposal, as expressed in June 2016 for the election of twelve Greek MPs. Michael Ignatiou Michalis Ignatiou notes in "Hellas Journal": "A point of reference and convergence of parties and institutions this particular proposal for twelve MPs of the State of Hellenism". They could be called "The State of Hellenism" these twelve MPs, who will not be the environments of the respective Presidents of the parties of the Greek reality. I am tabling this and not just because it was my own personal initiative, but I am putting it before Mr Theodorikos, who does not "collect Glaukas in Athens" or "open door". These proposals have been tabled by my humility. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I submit articles from the newpost.gr, as far as the family is concerned, and the twelve Member States. I am presenting by 'New PAGE'. I'm testifying from the newsbeast.gr. It is a series of proposals which have been tabled and which have been clear and clear. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In my humble view, as far as I can tell the family and as a journalist and as a Member of Parliament, the Greek Dispersion wants its voice to be heard purely and genuinely at the national centre. Homogeneity does not want to be involved in current intergroup disputes. He wants to add, not to remove, multiply and not divide. He wants to participate in a tender competition at home. He does not want the family to participate in a competition of deterioration, which is harmful to both society and society. If we manage to coordinate ourselves with the eternal open wound of the trust, we can move on and free the living forces of the family. If not - as unfortunately, I fear that it will happen this time too - then trying to use the family to serve the current party worshiper, here is what will happen. Why exactly what does it mean to us, responsible and responsible rapporteurs from New Democracy, just a little while ago, that it is the final text of Article 54(4) in the 'around one' of the end of the revision debate? A occult clipping and an unprecedented mockery of the homosexuals. You are interested in their vote alone. Is that what you're talking about? On a voluntary basis, parties may nominate certain positions of the State vote. But we know that the list of states is a list, they are elected according to the power of the parties. Therefore, if the representatives of the frustrations will not be in the polling positions from one to six - for example, the first party and so on - their presence will be symbolic and decorative. Is that what you want? Let the Democrats know! Where are the big words you say when you visit them, "the heart of Greece is beating in Johannesburg", "the heart of Greece is beating in Frankfurt", "the heart of Greece is beating in Chicago"? It's transferring the heart. Now? We're not what we're saying. We're what we're doing. We want, do we want to create institutional links and links, put together the homogeneity, the huge potential of Greek teachers, the people of art, culture, science - two and a half with three thousand university professors is only in North America, Canada and everywhere? Do we want this release by Korai to strengthen and restore the national effort? I'm afraid not. It is clear that the New Democracy's proposal to measure the Greeks' vote, de facto that the overall election result also means the risk of the electorate's mutilation, which other colleagues have pointed out. Our proposal, the SYRIZA proposal does not distinguish and disperse Greek voters abroad, as it is based on the basic principle that Greeks, who have the Greek nationality, are automatically included in the electoral lists. No, it seems you don't want this. You don't want the relatives to elect their own representatives. You seek the vote to influence and form the final correlation of the electoral forces inside. I wish it wasn't. We'll wait for the final draft law. I would like to stress the need for clear rules - and keep this, rapporteur, Mr Stylianides - to be written in the Minutes - clean regulations that do not leave room for questioning the elections. I would remind you of the negative example of the Austrian elections that were cancelled and repeated after appeals, due to the participation of the Austrian diaspora. You are taking enormous responsibility for the country and for the citizens, gentlemen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I fear that we disappoint people in love with the Greek spirit, Greeks and philhellenes who love the sun, the wine and the olive, along with the multichanging Odysseus, the blue of the small sailor and Ithaca. The lifting of the small and short-term policies towards the big picture and the great aim of using the capital, called "Greek community", seems to have passed, passed, and you did not touch it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u235	The speaker of the New Democracy Mr George Stylos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the constitutional review, for us younger Members, is a very special debate. It is a debate that goes beyond the perpetual political conflicts. It is about the future of the country, its history, that enables all of us to overcome ourselves. So I would like to start with some basic assumptions on my part. The request for a radical revision of the Constitution is not now. Each crisis brings to the surface the paths of the past, it damages the political system as a whole, it reduces citizens' confidence, it damages politicians and state institutions. Result? The change in the charter of the country is a panacea. But let us be honest with our citizens. A country's constitution cannot in itself solve the paths of state, economic and social reality. As in any regulatory text, it defines the framework of political life and provides the tools for the responsible state actors, and so we have to deal with it. This does not mean that no changes should be made. After all, many years have passed since the last extensive constitutional review of 2001, with the effort made in 2008. The ever-changing reality, however, goes beyond, in many cases, even the letter of the Constitution. Therefore, we would be blind, if we did not acknowledge the problematic nature of certain provisions, which we are now coming to review, but taking into account three main assumptions: Firstly, the 1975 Constitution proved to be a successful constitution, on which the most stable and longest-lived democracy in our country was founded. Secondly, the importance of the constitutional text cannot be called into question, but it is constantly falling under conditions of European integration and internationalization. I am referring to institutions such as the European Court of Human Rights, the Court of Justice of the European Union, which are now two main pillars of the protection of fundamental rights in the European Union. Thirdly, there is the informal and lasting constitutional change, notably through the case-law of the courts, which adapts the Constitution to the changing circumstances at hand. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth noting that this is where we arrived after a serious job and an overreach. It is, I think, a good thing that today's constitutional review comes from a parliament, where the majority were another ideological direction before the elections and now we have a majority of different ideological directions. We could - I think - have agreed on more revised articles by Parliament, but I would like to keep the positive from the whole process. The Review Committee has sometimes come up with simple and sometimes increased majority voting to seven thematic changes proposed. I'll mention the most basics in my hierarchy. Firstly, the introduction of a state obligation for a minimum guaranteed income system to support the Greek family, I am referring to Article 21. I am referring to the Greek family, which was the strong cell, which lasted during the economic and social crisis of the last ten years and kept the Greek society upright, a liberal measure which, unfortunately, was not the courage of the previous government to vote for it. On the initiative of the New Democracy, the principle of a social market economy, which, as a condition, has already been promoted, is enshrined in the fundamental European treaties on the initiative of the European People's Party. Second positive provision: the abolition of the deadline laid down in Article 86 relating to criminal offences of Ministers in the performance of their duties and the equilibrium with those applicable to all citizens. Thirdly, restricting parliamentary immunity, Rule 62, only in acts or declarations relating to the performance of the duties of the Member. I believe in these changes that they shield the credibility of our political system, which we so much need today. Fourthly, the complete release of the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic from parliamentary elections, Rule 32, so that the democratic people's mandate for a government is not interrupted and that the procedure for the election of the highest authority from the opposition in question is not used as a tool. I think it is a pity to mention the positive effects of a full four-year government cycle, where citizens will ultimately evaluate the work done. Fifthly, facilitating the vote of Greeks abroad, Article 54, in such a way that it does not address issues of unconstitutionality, as decided by the Intergroup. I believe that we have made our minimum debt to the Greeks abroad, with the right to vote, but also to the generation of Brain Drain. Obviously, we could have taken more steps forward. Unfortunately, however, the previous House, which was the nominee, severely reduced the scope of the revised articles. Due to SYRIZA’s ideas, the provisions relating to Article 24 on the protection of the environment, climate change and cultural heritage have remained out of procedure, as well as the inclusion in the Constitution of provisions concerning financial rules. We are all aware of the positive effects, which would have a stable tax system, which cannot be changed by a government and could exceed the four-year cycle. Finally, regarding the establishment of non-state universities, private universities: in particular the revision of Article 16, today's Customisation kept it captive to the state monopoly, for a whole generation, preventing the country from moving into an international training centre which would lead to the return of thousands of scientists and would allow us to import, instead of exporting students, currency and jobs. However, I would like to keep the positive from the whole process, that we all agree, even in a few provisions. Let this be the consensus that we have shown, a guide to follow-up, for the major reforms that the country so much needs and so much the need for Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, too. Mr Ioannis Pascalides from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with the present amendments and the abolition of individual articles, we are seeking to modernise our constitution, which has been judged to complement the current data, given that the Constitution does not only regulate the establishment and exercise of state power, regulates much more, regulates the relationship between the state and society, the relationship between the state and the economy and the relationship between the state and the European Union and the international community. Indeed, the country needs a brave Revision of the Constitution, especially if one takes into account that in Germany the 1949 Constitution has been amended more than a hundred times in France the 1958 Constitution more than thirty times. This Review House, with the amendment of paragraph 5 of Article 96 of the Constitution, comes to correct a serious injustice against military judges in relation to other judges. The judges of the Armed Forces, those judging the cases of thousands of children serving the country, looked so many years after. The state may have passed a law, implemented the constitutional order with a delay, of course, twenty years and given military justice all those guarantees so that the judges are independent and life-long, in two words they are no different from the other judges, but they have not completed the constitutional adjustment exercise. They argued - and they were quite right - that 'we cannot be judges in all but wages', saying, moreover, that they give justice to thousands of soldiers, they handle difficult cases, some of which are extremely important, they are not related to the Armed Forces, they are traded and their service changes are made by the Supreme Judicial Council, while the judgments of the military courts are set out in the Marios Ice. However, their most important argument is the provision of the Constitution which led the state to establish a special salary for judges, that is to say, the provision that judges should be paid according to their function, because the special salary for judges is an institutional guarantee to ensure their operational and personal independence, without the implementation of which the joint legislator has just declared themselves in the country's constitutional charter. It is this injustice that is being lifted by the equalisation of military judges with the other judges, which is brought about by the revision of Article 96(5), by asserting the guarantees of the independent functioning of military justice and by removing them from the outdated logic of the courts. After all, as Mr Javarra has said, this independence and institutional equality with other judges are not for the sake of their industry, but for the sake of the citizens, who are not allowed, according to the Constitution, to be tried by judges with limited guarantees of independence. The independent authorities are collectively administrative bodies, integrated into the legal person of the State, i.e. the State, which appeared in the Greek legal system as early as the 1980s as independent administrative authorities and some of them were subsequently guaranteed by the Constitution itself, by the 2001 Review, which regulates the selection procedure of their members, sets out their basic rules of operation and defines their responsibilities, and the extension of the independence of those structures was removed from the constitutional text. The vast majority of the independent authorities are, however, provided for by the common legislation, and often their establishment is a fulfillment of the Greek Republic's obligation as a Member State of the European Union. However, over the last few years, it has been seen over-the-board by these authorities, which reflects the impossibility of the political system to assume their responsibilities and tries to move them to the shoulders of non-political persons, as Mr Stylianides has rightly pointed out, and it is not too often that, because of the current provision of Rule 101(2) for an increased four-fifths majority, as regards the selection of the members of the administration by the Conference of Presidents of Parliament, they have remained in their place for a very long time, even though their term of office has expired. In this introductory interpretative declaration, which has a broad consensus, the above percentage is changed from four fifths to three fifths in order to avoid problems in the future and to ensure the continuous and undisturbed functioning of the independent authorities. Local government, as has been structured in our country, but also internationally, is one of the institutions of political participation and already with the previous Review, the competences are shielded twice: firstly, the introduction of the presumption of competence for local affairs for OTA, thus limiting the law to allocating local affairs according to their scope to Agencies A' and B' degrees B' and, secondly, to the drastic strengthening of the administrative and financial autonomy of OTAs. The right to local government is a political right and the activities of local government, the development of the principles of local government and the functioning of local government is a very substantial and practical method of exercising civil rights, which is guaranteed by universal and secret vote. In fact, it could be said that this function of local government goes beyond the local responsibilities of its institutions, because very often local government also operates as an institution of political pressure and not as an institution of competence. In the light of the foregoing, it is therefore demonstrated that existing provisions of the Constitution, which concern local authorities, provide for the proper organisation and functioning of them, and in particular Article 102(2) thereof, contains all democratic guarantees of the choice of authorities and does not require any modifications. To sum up, I would like to stress that the revision of the Constitution is not a matter for the government, but for all Parliament. It is at the top of our democratic culture, and that is why we must all stand up to the level of the situation with responsibility and harmony. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u239	Mr Manosos Voloudakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to address a few articles, which are not today's sitting, because I did not have the objective opportunity during the week to speak at the other meetings. The first article, to which I wish to refer, is an article which, by a majority that seems to have been formed, is fortunately not revised. I am referring to Article 3, which deals with the prevailing religion in Greece. If I consider it appropriate to refer to an article that will ultimately not be revised, it is because it has caused a lot of discussion with the SYRIZA proposal, but also with the overall climate, which has been shaped in our own country in recent years, around this subject. Article 3 summarizes the fact that the prevailing religion in Greece is the Orthodox Eastern Church of Christ. This, in short, is an indication that it is not a recognition of any official religion. That would be out of the spirit of the Orthodox Church itself. It is not an imposition on anyone or a violation of any citizen's rights, since, a few articles below, each citizen's right to believe what he wants and says that there is no discrimination in that country on the basis of religious beliefs. Why is this article? There is why he has a very long history, before the Revolution, in fact, recognizing the role of the Orthodox Church in shaping our present state, in liberation and then. Another article, in which there has been a corresponding dialogue, which can be linked to this subject, is Article 21. That is where the family is referred to as the basis of the nation and it is defined that the state must protect the family, precisely because it is the foundation of the nation. And that's what SYRIZA wanted to change. Both for the Left, but also for many other than the Left, are outdated concepts, and the reference to the Church and reference to the Nation. Is it really? But the criticism of those who call it obsolete is based on texts of the early 19th century, not more than the middle of the 19th century. There is no time now to go into the philosophical debate about this, but how can one judge something as obsolete, something that lives, something that is a dynamic factor in today's society and state everywhere in the world, and judge it as obsolete to theories of the 19th century? In fact, these two articles - and Article 3, with reference to the Church and Article 21, with reference to the family as the foundation of the Nation - are what they do to express a admirer, in my view, of the composition that our constitutions have achieved since the early revolutionary 1921s, I mean the Constitutions of the Revolution. What composition? The composition between the need to respect individual rights, the basis of free democracy, and the need to express the collective identity of the citizens, the members of society. Because there is no society as a sum of individuals alone. The Left often brings the concept of social cohesion to public debate - rightly and very often - too often. Because there can be no state without social cohesion. But social cohesion does not only guarantee the issues of distribution of income, with which the Left wants to deal. Social cohesion is also ensured by a sense of collective identity, with the sense that the citizens are given. when their collective identity is expressed in public life, in their shared lives, and so they don't feel the state anything foreign to them. Where, in a number of cases, in today's era strong elite attempts to discolour the societies or states from the particular collective characteristics of the citizens, a reaction arises, which often leads people to extremities and poses a real danger to democracy. Because it is not possible to remove from the way of thinking and functioning of human society this concept of collectiveness. It is no coincidence that parliamentary democracy has developed alongside the nation-state. National identity is a force that is reborn everywhere in the world and we must not forget that. Two words on how to elect the President of the Republic. The election of the President of the Republic is rightly disconnected from the dissolution of the House, because in this place we need stability. Personally, I made a reservation to the committee on the majority. I think, however, that the important thing is to ensure stability here. I would like to mention something here, however, which could not be dealt with in this constitutional revision. But we must also have it before the eyes for the lawmaking and for the functioning of the state from now on and perhaps for a debate to begin in the future. Our democracy, since the 1986 review, has become pre-centralised and particularly centralised. This fact has come to be added to centralism, which modern technology is causing, if you like, this technology of power, which has led us to a state, which very often seems to be opaque, seems to be unaccessable to democratic dialogue. And here too, very often, every Parliament in the modern world has to vote on legislation, which has not been produced through this process of parliamentary dialogue, but through the technological processing and analysis of a reality, which escapes the principles of transparency, from the principles of institutional counterweights, which must exist within society and the state, in order for democracy to function. That's as a footnote. Our democracy needs institutional counterweight. There is not enough, and today we cannot guarantee additives. I shall close in a few words on the vote of the relatives and the addition made to Article 54. The New Democracy has had a proposal from the beginning and before the elections: Unconditional vote for the relatives wherever they are, regardless of any criteria, and indeed a letter of vote, so that everyone can vote. We are currently driving - and this is reflected in the Review - in a compromise with a different viewpoint, with the concept of the Left, which essentially wanted to limit this right. Either with the proposal of SYRIZA that wanted to reduce the weight of the counterparts' votes or with the clauses that the JRC put in place, which very limited who are voting, all together limit the total number of those who vote against by not accepting the letter of vote, so the possibility for the relatives to vote where they are. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need your tolerance for a minute. The government made a compromise and did it well so that even part of the family could vote. But we need to speak clearly here. Why did the Left react? Is it really a danger for democracy to vote on line today, by electronic vote? Is it really a question of whether or not it has anything to do with Greece? Because we're talking about them. We are not talking, as many people say, about the fifth generation of people. We said 'those who are on lists where they are to vote'. No, it is neither a question of safeguarding the integrity of the elections nor of whether the citizens on the lists relating to their country or not are on the lists. Another is the point in the fact that the left is of the opinion that a wider provision of votes on the part of the homosexuals, without any conditions and restrictions, is not in the interests of the electorate. And why doesn't she take the vote? Because the people who left Greece, to go to work, are people of a different mentality, are the most dynamic elements of society, they are the ones for their work, to become productive and creative, even their homes. Here it turns out that the Left, in fact, has nothing to do with what he wants to say about the world of work. Even so, we also have to accept the compromise that has been reached to vote, even if the few of them will be able to vote. I believe that these are some positive touches in the Constitutional Review. We should be able to do much more. The next generations will expect the next Constitutional Review to see what was not complete today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u241	Mr Efstathos Konstantinides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, I do not know if it is customary for me, but my position is entitled 'The Wind Revision'. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard many speakers express the view that the ongoing constitutional review is a lost opportunity, with a view to limiting paragraph 6 of Article 110 of the Constitution to take a new revision initiative. However, whoever shares the definition of Bismarck for politics, I think he will agree that the dimension of this Constitutional Review really moves to the edge of the practicable, even if not the desirable. Given the conditions and the divisive climate, which had been created in previous years, and the changes to important articles of the Constitution that are likely to arise, I would say that from the ongoing process we are getting the best possible result. For the truth, let each one of us recall in his memory the dramatic events of the previous period, in which the pregnant Review was fertilized, in order to understand its importance. The country was exhausted from the Multiannual Economic Crisis. Society disoriented sought lost ideals and values. The forces of nationalism dominated political life. The state functions were constantly questioned. Greece was one step ahead of the collapse. In those circumstances, could one well expect the consensus needed to achieve significant constitutional changes in critical and major issues? In this toxic environment, however, some political forces have managed to break to the level of circumstances. The New Democracy's party has demonstrated tolerance and demonstrated its deep relationship with society. He spoke to the citizens the language of truth and took the responsibility to definitively remove the country from the political and economic stagnation. Finally, in these circumstances, the sober and responsible political attitude of today's majority manages to turn the lost opportunity into a won Review. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say that the constitutional changes, which were born in the ashes of the crisis, reflect the destiny of this nation to record successes, even when everything seems in vain and impossible. In this top democratic process every political area assumes its responsibilities for the changes made to our charter, but also to those reserved for other legislators in the constitutional path of the country. As a Member of the New Democracy, however, I will have the honour to say that in this Review House I was a member of the parliamentary majority, who put its seal on the fourth amendment of the 1975 Constitution. I shall be proud to say that I voted in favour of the revision of paragraph 1 of Article 21 on the introduction of a minimum guaranteed income system and perhaps a top change, concerning the revision of paragraph 4 of Article 32 and the disconnection of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House. The fact is that in the past, unfortunately, and recently, the forecasts for the election of the President of the Republic had been misused in order to serve party purposes. But the conditions have now matured both in society and in the political world to disconnect this process from the exhaustion of government service. Sadly, however, on this issue, which has also dealt with previous reform procedures and has been a constant and widespread demand from the political world and society, the Responsibility of Civic Response has been the cause of stumbling up, with an unprecedented and sudden objection of unconstitutionality on the ground of unsolved legal issues, which has also been a pretext and an absolute one. I will, however, also have the opportunity to vote for the fourth paragraph of Article 54 to facilitate Greeks living outside the Greek territory in the exercise of their electoral right, a matter which has been a strong concern for political dialogue and which has been a commitment of the Prime Minister over the past period. Thus, ensuring the equitable exercise of the electoral right to Greek foreigners will constitute an emblematic constitutional intervention, which will be signed by Mr.Mitsotakis. I will, however, vote for the revision of Rule 62, according to which Parliament's permission to prosecute a Member of Parliament against a Member is necessarily granted when the request from the public prosecutor relates to a offence which is not linked to the exercise of the duties or to the political activity of the Member. The relevant regulation achieves a balance between the protection of the Members' freedoms in his political action and the restriction of immunity only in acts referred to therein. In addition, I will be voting in favour of the revision of paragraph 2 of Article 68 to allow parliamentary minorities to request a committee of inquiry on a proposal from at least 10 Members. In this way, this process regains its true character, which is the exercise of parliamentary control by the parties. This is undoubtedly a democratic regulation that promotes parliamentary operation. I will also be voting in favour of the very important addition of the sixth paragraph to Article 73 of the Constitution, which establishes the right to legislative initiative for citizens by signing a motion for a law by five hundred thousand voters, which strengthens democratic processes and strengthens citizens' participation in political events. Furthermore, I will have the opportunity to vote in favour of the revision of Rule 86(3) by removing the paragraph which restricted Parliament's competence to prosecute against members of the government or of the State Secretarys only until the end of the Second Regular Session of the Parliamentary Period. Indeed, this provision has for many years been a reason to question the transparency and integrity of political life and its abolition serves to restore the political dignity and the recovery of society's trust from the political world. Unfortunately, in this case too, the proposal by the Minister of Staff Response, which, in interpretative terms, is supposedly retrospective, in order to distinguish the offences committed in the exercise of the minister's duties and not on them, is motivated by communications springs, since in any event it cannot be implemented, because it is contrary to the criminal basis. I will also vote in favour of the revision of Rule 96(5), which brings about the full assimilation of the military judges with the officials, as well as the revision of paragraph 2 of Rule 101a, which facilitates the selection of the persons administering the independent authorities, since the three-fifths of the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament will now be required to ensure that they do not appear vacant in the filling of the seats and do their job without hindrance. In voting in favour of these proposals, ladies and gentlemen, I will have the right to say that I participated in the 2019 Wind Revision as a member of the only party involved in the resolution of the 1975 Constitution and its subsequent Reviews, which demonstrates the conscientiousness that this party has in the consciousness of the citizens of the country. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to congratulate the President of the Commission, Mr Stylianidis, on the work of the two review bodies on their hard and systematic efforts and to wish our new Constitution a peaceful and creative path for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u243	I call to Stepma Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos from SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. Andreas Calvos was saying at a turn of one of his merized poems that freedom wants virtue and boldness. I paraphrase it a little and say that the constitutional review would like virtue and courage. I'm sorry to say that, but ten years lost will go. Some small, few, subtle improvements have been made. Nothing more. Before I come to my point, however, I would like the government to clarify an issue that has been raised. We saw the State Secretary for National Defence showing some plans. I'd like an answer. I'm a good-for-nothing person. He showed a graphics and too many interpreted it a bit. If they interpreted it arbitrarily, and if I interpret it like that, I apologize, but I would like an answer. There is an island - you know - very close to Amorgos and another island - which I do not remember now - and runs under Lero. That's an outburst. He's not inhabited. I would like to ask and to make it clear: did the Secretary-General have in mind this island, when he presented the map, or is it just a coincidence? Something "Spillar" and something "Spinalogues" etc. it's stories I want to think it's still, he's offered, it's not about it. I speak with respect for the New Democracy. Now let's go to the object. I'm a practical man. Doctors - you know - if they don't keep in mind that the last stitch is coming in, they don't start an operation. I respect all the articles of the Constitution, but I will focus on one, - so that I can have the opportunity to say two words, because there is little time - in Article 86 and what is around this article and there is a lot about this article. I would like to remind you that after 11 years the 'SIEMENS' case has been finalised. We heard some convicts, some people unfortunately don't exist, some are still abroad, some have immunity and say. One, not acquitted by limitation, even triumphantly triumphed that he was vindicated after so many years. That's his right. What do I mean? Forgive me for the expression, but some people think they have a property perception in this country. Indeed, justice has its own rhythms. It is a tangible proof that it cannot be influenced by anyone who wants it very much. She's got her own rhythm. So we arrived at the 'SIEMENS' scandal after eleven years - hold this - in the limitation. I would also like to say that at least we have a pleasant development, that none of these people thought of blaming those who pointed it out. No one's ever thought about it. This is the positive part of this story. We're getting to our own now. I'm reappearing that I'm just focusing on Article 86. I don't have time for any more, and I will refer to what has to do with this article. This morning, the Chief of Officerial Response put three questions to the Prime Minister, one question we were all here. One of these was if it could be in this Review that we do not have a case of waiving the bribery of Ministers. I'm not gonna get in trouble now on legal terms. And Mary knows she doesn't have any business with bribes, too. What is simpler to have an interpretative statement that shields it. The 'flash' in this case is whether in future some of the interpretative statement may tend it to be how it suits them. Since we all admit that this article is indisputable - everyone admits it, at least in the theory - we would expect a certain move to enter the constitutional revision. With all due respect to the opposite view - I have heard too many views, respectful - I believe that this story smells like covert. Because it's not just that fact, two other subjects came in this morning. One is the truly unprecedented - it is not about constitutional review, but about the codes - the government's position on the immunity of bankers. My opinion is that the Prime Minister didn't answer anyone. We all know that the banks have been recapitulated three times by the fallout of the Greek citizen. We were all paying to survive the banks. Some bankers took phone orders and said "you give him a loan, you don't give". I would like to refer to the example of Lehman Brothers. In America, in the man of capitalism, these bankers who violated guarantee rules are still in prison. They're rotting in prison. So more simple than that is also the case for Greek bankers. We have heard the opposite arguments. It doesn't make any sense to say it. He doesn't convince me, and I don't think he can convince anyone. The second thing we have seen is some confiscated accounts of people persecuted. First of all, there's a hundred bankers. The'self-order' became 'at imprisonment'. I think it's more obvious that no one will turn themselves in. The bankers and its managers shall make up the bank. If that's possible! The rest is other words to be loved. The third to which he also did not receive an answer - I am just refocusing on Article 86, nothing else, I have no time - were these confiscated accounts. A witness - I do not want to say names, knows the whole world - said 'yes, I will take advantage of gentlemen, fight when I asked for...'. First of all, it was leaked that the first meeting of this gentleman with the judge Mrs Toulupakis took place at the request of the judge, while that was a lie. That was what he had asked, and the reason was for the commitment of this account and nothing else. There's a lot more to be said. There were seven people at this meeting, two of whom were the advocates of this gentleman. What do I mean? It also seems that we will soon have a plenary meeting of the Court of Appeals, to see whether or not the case of NOVARTIS should remain with that prosecutor. Here I want to make a parable to remind you of something in honor of the Chief of the Attorney's Prosecutor's Office. A while ago, some of the packets were picking up signatures. They had fourteen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can I have a minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u245	Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u246	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In his honor, Kanellepoulou, the then chief said to them: "Lords, forget about it. Legally you can't do it. The Prosecutor of Corruption is responsible for this work and no one else." It sounds like we're waiting for the plenary. I don't know, nothing's happened. I'm waiting. I have read too many valid articles and one today, which is catapult, about who has competence, even if the law changes and goes by saying. I am saying all this because I believe that there is an incredible effort by the students - in my opinion - to present themselves as victims. We know very well that the former Prime Minister has left the camp. Mr. Papagelopoulos has left and they're looking for a natural automobile. A judge who, in my view, has been held to the height of her mission must be deceived. I have a right to say it. It is Mrs Toulupakis, whose term of office was renewed for the second time, who had been chosen by ten to one and not by small majorities and which was the reason, when she and Mrs Zamanika sent an interrogator after thirteen and a half years. I remind you of some people who say the case was filed. Respectful. And Mr. Papantoniou had entered the archive. In fact, in the Chamber, when it became the pre-inquiry, some were again talking about practicing, criminalizing political life. However, when the accounts were found in five different states and a sum that his wife could not justify - I am not speaking for revenge and I wish him to be acquitted in court - he was confiscated. But none of the supporters came to say a half a word and back him up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u247	In conclusion, because it is not on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u248	I'll be done. I believe that the lost price of civilian personnel should be kept as an eye daughter. Ten years we have lived through incredible things, in a country where unemployment has reached 28%, which has left billions, where the public debt has reached 320 billion euros, which the 10-year bond - the definition of a bankrupt country - has reached 23.9%. This was then received by the government that was abducted. And the lost honor in terms of moral order, corruption and interactiveity, I think it should be a matter of all of us. We see an unbelievable attempt not to do this mainly in Article 86. I shall conclude, Mr President, and I would just like to remind you of one thing. A big part of our youth has turned our backs. He neither listens to us nor does he want to be written to parties. A little girl named Greta Tunberg and a lot of youth - to know what we are doing - has taken the game of climate change, and hence of the planet's self-destruct, on its backs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Papachristopoulos, I'm sorry, but please hang up because all your speech is out of the question. We're talking about the Constitution. Revision of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u250	I am talking about Article 86, Mr President. And I focus because for me it's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u251	Members are protesting below, because you have already multiplyed the time. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u252	You're right, but we're few. Two, three colleagues have still to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u253	But we've been here for five days.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u254	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u255	Please hang up, Mr. Papachristopoulos. You don't make it easy for anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u256	I mean that a part of the youth that we have underestimated has caught the problem of climate change in the altar of profits, to accumulate profits of 'land fire'. You know that, at the moment, climate change is not recognized by everyone and is already being discredited. I conclude and say that for me, I honestly tell you, that God should give the vote the supplementary addition made by SYRIZA to Article 86. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and students and five educational attendants from the public IEK VENIZELOS. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let me tell you, children, that as long as you are in Parliament's House, you are following the supreme process of reviewing the Constitution, namely the supreme law of the state, which is statistically about every ten years. Mrs. Pulu has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the process of Revision of the Constitution is, by common accord, a leading moment for our citizens. However, the Government does not respect this process after it opened the parallel meeting of parliamentary committees with bills which it has confiscated, but deliberately, in my view, and once again without substantial consultation. The result is to break the Members in parallel and not to have the opportunity to participate in the debate on this top process. This in itself is a disgrace to the debate and to the institutions. As today's debate is closed, however, I should like to focus on decentralisation of the state, which directly affects local government because of my experience as Mayor of Levande. We all admit that local selfgovernment is the cell of democracy and that the state must by all means stand by its own means provide the institutional guarantees of its operation. The decentralisation of the state and the self-sufficiency of the local government are unnecessarily constitutional requirements, but since 1975 they have not been implemented despite the latest efforts of the SYRIZA government. Although there is provision in the Constitution, the joint legislature did not want to fulfil its obligation. The joint legislator today, the parliamentary majority, believes in decentralisation? I wonder. There are answers and examples of writing. Today's majority with the law on an official state presided over an authoritarian and central state. It did not present a comprehensive plan for the operation of the general government bodies pyramid. As far as local government is concerned, instead of ensuring decentralisation by transferring responsibilities and resources, it has broken with fragmentary and targeted provisions even on its own. It has committed violently to the responsibilities of municipal regional councils and their functioning in the name of supposedly governmentality. The constitutional framework therefore needs to be strengthened so that the joint legislator is forced to ensure both decentralisation and self-interest. Our proposal in Article 101(1) is in this direction by explicitly providing that the regional organisation system of the state will be organised by law, a system of regional organisation that will not shrink the OTAs into fiscal mechanisms, as the government is now trying to do, but will provide them with the means of realising their local policies. Because the municipality cannot make economic, development and any other planning when the central government expects the distribution of financial resources when waiting for the CFP. In Europe more than eight hundred municipalities have been building participatory budgets for two decades. On the contrary, in our country, municipalities draw up budgets without even knowing how much money they will be managed every year. Although they have competence under the Constitution for the responsibility of local things and affairs, they often lack the ability to respond to this responsibility. Furthermore, as I come from a mountain or mountainous region myself, I would like to mention the special guarantees and care for the development of both islands and mountainous and semi-sea areas. The SYRIZA proposal takes into account the specificities of these regions and guarantees that the constitutional provision is not empty. We are proposing the establishment of appropriate operational management plans and the provision of incentives for civil servants serving in these areas. This is how for the first time a holistic management model that requires harmonious cooperation between OTAs and central state to serve the special nature of the island and mountainous area is structured. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I want to refer to Article 102(2). Our proposal is to introduce a direct vote with a proportional system to highlight the principles of local government. In addition, we are proposing the introduction of local popular assemblies, referendums and initiatives to recognise the right to vote for foreigners who have permanent residence in the country. I will focus on the most important, in particular, the introduction of a proportional system to highlight the principles of local government. The introduction of simple proportionally ensures democratic deepening in the constitutional requirements for equal voting, the service of the representative authority, the participation and involvement of local society in self-government. Are we really thinking, ladies and gentlemen, that simply proportional is a system that functionally strengthens decentralisation? Because it strengthens social dissemination in local affairs by broadening citizens' participation and the obligation to convergences and compositions. Thus, administrative and economic decentralisation, i.e. transferring responsibilities and resources to local government, is not limited to managing local things by an artificial majority, but is a matter for the whole of local society. Besides, European experience demonstrates that decentralised and successful self-government models go hand in hand with simple electoral systems proportional to most of Europe's municipalities. Unfortunately, New Democracy does not have the simple analogue in its DNA, and this explains the absence of investment in decentralisation. She is not interested in the activation of citizens and is committed to her clientele system. In the law on the final state, he created a state of over-concentration with the Prime Minister as another Leviathan. He then tried to create mayors and district rulers in his image and likeness. I am briefly referring to the unacceptable provisions of the multi-legislative draft for the bleeding of responsibilities from the sovereign bodies, the municipal and regional councils, the transfer of powers to the administrative committees of the municipalities and regions, the partnerships not of the self-government groups in general, but only to the brigades and districts. Really, how many partnerships have happened? Only twenty-three hundred and thirty-two municipalities and thirteen regions of the country and, in my opinion, this was also a reaction to the above and without any consultation or enforcement. I am also referring to the non-representative representations in the administrative bodies, the fictitious quorums, the abolition of the powers of presidential communities. The government's writing samples so far finally show how necessary the constitutional safeguard of self-government is. Nevertheless, this opportunity to review the Constitution also seems to be the responsibility of the majority not to be exploited and the crucial momentum will remain unexploited. Ladies and gentlemen, local communities are rather more mature than perhaps we think they are ready to settle disputes and go through partnerships. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of the SYRIZA proposal, which guarantees decentralisation, the simple analogue and appropriate framework for the operation of OTAs as a minimum contribution to local democracy, which is a constitutional requirement over time. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u259	Mrs. Pulu, you have been a little unfair. You said a heavy word at the beginning, you spoke about a'reservation' of the process. I have to tell you that at this time there is no committee meeting. I said a moment ago that two Members would still speak, and now they will speak four. That is what I would like to say to you that a detailed debate is taking place and that no Member has had difficulty, he could also be in a committee. Only the standing committees are in place. The special committees that are many are not working. Every day, from morning to late night, Members were given the opportunity to follow the procedure. I wish - it would be a good thing - that all the Members of Parliament were watching. The process evolved very well and those who wanted to be informed had all the comfort and opportunity to attend. You said that the procedure was 'needed'. I have to say this because the Bureau must also sometimes sit here and watch everyone take the floor for some things. I've got plenty of time here. So you came to speak just two minutes before you took the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u260	But I was watching, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u261	It is therefore neither the procedure nor the Bureau nor anyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u262	Let me reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u263	Take the Minutes and check it out. The word'remuneration' has not been said by anyone four days now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u264	I personally participated in three committees and two days now I have not been able to follow the plenary. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u265	Today you have a committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u266	Because you have referred personally to me, Mr President, let me answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u267	I wouldn't bother if that word wasn't heard. And to be sure, I consulted the Minutes, because the word'remuneration' is too heavy. I would therefore ask you to delete it from the Minutes because no one agrees with any of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, I accept that the word 'depreciation' should be replaced by 'depreciation'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u269	Thank you. Mr. Christos Spirtzis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the top parliamentary process of the Revision of the Constitution coincides with the first parliamentary period when our country, our people, is free from the Memorandum Conventions and the part of national and popular sovereignty has been recovered. As a country we spent almost a decade in which the Greek people, the rule of law, the social state, the social conquests, the public interest, the Constitution and our own democracy. It would be reasonable, therefore, today to have a strong reflection and a substantial dialogue to deepen our democracy, but also to clarify those constitutional requirements that will not allow us to live again on what has affected our society, what has affected our people, to seek gaps in our constitution and to secure our democracy, the rule of law, the social state, the public interest and the social conquests that have been devastated by what has been imposed, either by the representatives of the lenders or by both those who served them. It is an opportunity to preserve constitutional and deeper popular sovereignty, popular social conquests, social rights, social goods which citizens must have and which some have tried to break through loan obligations. Let us not, in other words, relive the imposition and attempt to privatise the waters of the country and stop the right that every citizen must have in water, energy, social goods, human rights, which we as a society must ensure. Let us not live again - and not forget - by throwing our fellow citizens out of public hospitals because they had outstanding tax contributions. To protect the country's own democracy and not allow the economic system to be imposed on the political world and the Greek people for the future. We must not relive the imposition of a non-parliamentary Prime Minister from the banking system to the Greek people, not to relive the lenders to the Ministries to dictate laws and regulations. To overthrow or correct constitutional predictions that have affected and undermined the political world in the eyes of Greek society, such as the predictions of immunity of ministers and MPs. To correct distortions that allowed the current Constitution, such as the construction of party mechanisms in the state and in the public sector, the mechanisms for service in banks, without institutionalised rules and transparency, paid and paid by the Greek people. I mean, don't forget. The Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, states that the foundation of the civil society is popular sovereignty. This provision shall be of an imperative nature and shall have two appearances. The first is that the public bodies must come from the people's will and democratic legitimacy, and the second is that, in the exercise of their duties, they must go to the people's will and seek the widest possible popular consensus, namely democratic legitimacy. In this context clearly, according to the principle of popular sovereignty and equality of vote, it is the system of mere proportional. In July 2016, the SYRIZA government and Alexis Tsipras put in the public debate the proposals for constitutional review. The political context was key, but also symbolic. The exit of the country from the memoranda would be accompanied by a progressive and democratic constitution, since it is certain that a large majority of the Greek people want bold institutional areas. Sadly, once again, New Democracy as a Protestant Opposition faced the whole effort in the worst possible way, which in many cases is justified by its strategic choice to remain dogmatically anchored in extreme neoliberalism, even unlike the Constitution of 1974 and its founding proclamations. It would be nice to read them again. For us, in SYRIZA and in the country's progressive world, the democratic demands from Greek society are our self-evident obligation to institutionalise them and this should not be lost. In particular, with regard to the amended provisions, I prefer the second section on social rights. Ensuring fundamental rights was aimed at and targeted at the principle of constitutionalism in limiting and delimiting state power, and gradually linked to the development of progressive movements. Following the atrocities of war conflicts against the value of human and human life, international human rights agreements are more than ever opportune. The European Social Charter, as well as the numerous international labour conventions adopted by the International Labour Organisation, is also of great importance for social rights. Unfortunately, in recent years this constitutional check has been deleted from the hands of conservative governance policies and extreme neoliberal choices and our homeland, our people, has lived in a vibrant way the results of the Memorandum policies in the lives of our fellow citizens. In the third thematic section - Prime Minister, government, parliament - SYRIZA's proposal for constitutional review starts from the need to strengthen Parliament, but also democratically elected governments, against powers not conferred on popular sovereignty. You all remember what we lived on and how the constantly reinforced extra-institutional and extra-constitutional powers worked in our country. That is why we need to create enhanced defence institutions. It is obvious and it is our firmly established view that the Prime Minister of the country must be elected MP so that the fates of the people and of the country are not handed over to any technocrat who serves this political juncture or specific interests. We have gained tragic experience in this, and that is why, in the person of the Prime Minister concerned, the concept of the Parliamentary Republic is confusing, namely political responsibility and political cost. It is quite clear that the prime ministers must be appointed by the Greek people and must be accountable only to him. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, if you'll excuse me, I need some more time. I won't be tempted to remind you of what we've been listening to as long as we've been a government for four and a half years. Instead, instead of guaranteeing our democracy, instead of guaranteeing that the Prime Minister will be elected to the Greek Parliament, instead of the proclamations of the New Democracy and the complaints of the so-called party state building by SYRIZA, you have legislated the final state. It is a piece of legislation that, in many of its provisions, conflicts with the Constitution for the role of Ministers, the Minister's Council, the role of Prime Minister, but it is also a monument to the construction of a party state from the Prime Minister to the last structure of public life and from what we see in the amendments that you are proposing to the President of the Republic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It's tragic. As long as we consider whether the Presidents of the Republic in Transmigration could play the role they played at critical times if they had been elected by a minority by the Greek Parliament. I think - and I call for this - that the New Democracy colleagues should see this again. On the fifth theme section, in the non-violent Members and Ministers, the current provision in many cases has caused reasonable suspicion against the political world and led to a dismantling of politics. Perhaps, if you want, it's an injection into the right-wing monster that we saved in this Parliament. In our view, ladies and gentlemen, the interpretative statement put forward by the SYRIZA government is the central substance, the heart, as Alexis Tsipras rightly observed, of the change of Article 86. We consider it essential and self-evident that ministerial offences do not include what has been done only on the occasion of ministerial duties and that these, in particular, acts of corruption, are persecuted by justice and not by the House. It is particularly good that all the wings recognize the need for changes in the existing context. It would, however, be a stimulus for the political system to introduce this proposal by all those of us who served in ministerial positions. It would be a real act to stimulate our society's confidence in the political world if those of us who served in ministerial positions proposed this whole interpretative statement. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I call for you to support it, even now. Mr President, please, just one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u271	You have a minute, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u272	I would like to make another comment on the regulatory authorities, not on the independent constitutionally guaranteed ones, but in particular on the regulatory ones. It is truly regrettable that these authorities operate in the way they operate. They're more dependent than addiction, something we've said before. It is well known that the New Democracy is a fan of these principles, but so we can explain the fact that, on one night, it dissolved the institution of the Public Administration Inspectorate and serious control bodies to create a principle, the National Transparency Authority, without any legal personality. The commander shall be appointed arbitrarily and in a non-transparent manner by the Prime Minister and in a similar arbitrary manner, and the Heads of Authority shall be appointed. It is another great success for the state of staff, and that is why in Article 101 as SYRIZA we are proposing to restructure the way in which the decisions of the independent authorities and the regulatory authorities are put in place and not through immunity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The issue of the vote of our impoverished compatriots has been exhausted. It is a very positive effort and I would like to congratulate all the Members of Parliament on their efforts to have a common position. We reserve final formalities by the government so that our relatives can have the right to elect their own representatives. Finally, I will close by referring to the simple analogy system, which is a constant demand from the progressive world, which we have established with courage and boldness. There is a great contrast with the New Democracy. The main cause of the rivalry of the conservative party is the allegedly non-government of the country or local government. In your opinion, therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you must in any way maintain the enhanced proportion. I would like to remind you, however, that the country's bankruptcy has been achieved by a reinforced proportion. Our children have been hosted in an enhanced analogue regime. The working framework was abolished in an enhanced proportional manner. Our fellow citizens have stayed out of public hospitals with an enhanced analogue system. Our constitution and democracy have been hurt by an enhanced proportional system. In our opinion, therefore, because the Constitution is the fundamental law on which the formation of all the legislation of the country is based, the foundation of our democracy, but also the defences of our democracy in all kinds of enforcement, you must dare also and must not forget what we have experienced, and we and the Greek people, with the regime of reinforced proportionality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u273	Thank you. Mr Miltiadis Hatzigiannakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Although we are towards the end of the process, I think it is an honor to be able to speak of the top constitutional institution, of the Revision of the Constitution. Because of my origin and the political and normal nature, I have chosen to speak today about Article 101(4) concerning the islands and the mountainous areas provided for in this paragraph of the article. Indeed, in 2006, it was the first time that the Greek state decided, in the then Review, to introduce the concept of islandity and mountainousness and the protection it deserves under Article 101(4). We all understand why this has been done, although I think the Greek state is late. But even in 2006 he included it in the rule of law that is currently in existence and we are discussing whether or not it will be revised. In reality, however, while this particular provision, the State in general and vaguely can take into account the particular circumstances of the islands and mountainous regions, has, as I said, set for the first time, at the very first stage protection of those areas that need so much attention and protection from the Greek state, almost empty letters have remained. With few exceptions, the Greek state did in fact act, legislated, drafted laws and, in particular, acts which really helped the islands, especially the small, and mountainous regions. You know that our country has a special environment, it has a geography, a biodiversity that differs from most European Union countries, so I think the Greek state should take this into account. What the House has actually done is this provision in the Constitution today, to try from an empty letter to make it a provision that has or at least will try to set terms in the state and have a effect on the daily lives of the citizens of our islands and the remote mountain areas. Why am I saying that? The interpretative addition proposed by the proposed parliament puts two basic things in place. What's the problem with the islands, actually? We may all have in mind the islands in the summer months, which may have tourism, we may feel like ideal places to live, but the reality of an islander is not that. The reality of January, February, December is completely different from the one the middle citizen may have in mind. The reality of these months is that it shakes the pamphlet of every island - because the islanders have lived in the last five years, for them I have been responsible for, I have been able to share this experience with them, and I can take you in here - it has the agony if it has a pediatrician in the multivalent doctorate to take the child of two years, three years old, if a fever that can go up - and may be a daily life very simple - can be fatal. I am not saying that things happen very often, but as mayor, I had to have people who trembled, enter the Ministries and say: 'Hey, a pediatrician we want, a pediatrician!'. Also, as mayor, I was trying - as a small municipality, not of the very small, there are worse - and I had the luck and the joy of returning too many islands at this time, because we created a network of islands, and to see the difficulties they faced, not having technical services. I sincerely speak to you, the Municipality of Kastelorizou has two million in its reserve at its fund. He can't do a project! I believe that this has nothing to do with political shade or visual left, right or centre. It is about dealing with daily problems. The European Union is the first time in 2016 that it received, even in a document, the concept of islandity, by a resolution of the European Parliament, and that was positive. We, of course, are mainly an island country. Of the three hundred and fifty-five - if I am not mistaken, there are - 30% of resident islands of the European Union. So the first ones we should have cared for, had we put this part on the table in the European institutions too. However, even in 2016, the European Parliament, in its resolution of 4 February, takes this seriously into account. Immigration - because this is the reality, which is why the European Parliament has taken into account - must understand that the islands of Greece and Italy in particular, but also of Spain, are faced with the largest part of the influx of very large refugee groups and then understand that there is a difference in islands. I would remind everyone that our islands, especially the smaller ones, have nothing to do with Sicily or Sardinia or Corsica. Not all the islands are like that. If you look at it and populations, Greece still has the greatest problem. So what do we suggest? Honestly, it is a wish, in view of the Monday's vote, to reconsider this issue. I don't want to blame or say anything else. You will tell me: The preparation of specific operational plans - why does the interpretative statement say - and the encouragement of civil servants who serve in them is a matter of our Charter and not of simple legislation? But that is where the answer has been given by the act. Nothing has happened for so many years, and while we have had the state's obligation to take care of the peculiarities since 2006, nothing has been done but a minimum of exceptions. That's because I want to be perfectly fair. Our government, of SYRIZA, proceeded to four or five things. That's how the proposal came in the Revision of the Constitution. We islanders, in other words, faced it with terrible relief when we learned that it was also proposed in this Review House. One problem was how we will be running our municipalities, as I said before, so it had to be done, and this goes on with the support of the 'CLISTEN' which laid down a clear provision to strengthen and diversify island and mountainous municipalities. So it wasn't an empty letter, it didn't come all of a sudden and we said: 'Let's put it in the Charter, let's put it in the Constitution.' It was a result of a specific policy. We have voted on the transport balance, which I hope will continue on better terms every year. It was a constant request from the islanders, because we have very big problems. If you see the supermarket how it might be in Kalymnos or Skyros, it has nothing to do with this. We who live in mainland Greece may have in mind that things there are ideal and what nice places they are, but the problems there are everyday. Apart from the transport equivalent and the provisions of the 'CLITHENE', we have actually strengthened as the Ministry of the Interior - and I urge the current government to continue doing so - with more than 30% of the regular grants, of the year, in every small island and mountain municipality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why - and I am closing down, Mr President - I thank you for your patience, because we have arrived last - it is a scream. Since we cannot, as a state, really help these people, the people of the remote islands, who are lifting much more weight than they are and what they can do, let us put it in the Charter. It's for vote. I call on the majority on Monday indeed to be able to review it. It doesn't hurt at all. And sincerely these people, who are pulling so much and, especially now with immigration, we will be aware that we must have them in mind and with works and not just in words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u275	We're closing with Mrs. Olga Kefefaliannis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than a year since the debate in the House on the Constitutional Review. In a climate of polarisation, the then government of SYRIZA deliberately sought the disorientation of Greek society, with a vehicle for constitutional revision, in order to overshadow the enormous problems of economic bleeding, unemployment, the critical national issues, which were faced with incalculable costs for the country. Somehow, unfortunately, it was anticipated that the cubit of the proposed parliament would go very low. Of course, history will seek out the reasons why this top institutional process has once again been mutilated. As happened in 2008 - I was then a Member of Parliament in my first term - and now the voices of populism have cut Greek society off from progress and modernisation in critical areas of state function, education and the environment. However, it cannot and should not be judged to be the result of this Review, as well as its offer to the next generations. Whether by simple or increased majority, the Review Committee was converging at seven and very important points to be revised. One of these is the equation, in accordance with Article 96(5), of the military judges with the other judges. This is a proposal from the current parliamentary majority, which achieves access to all the constitutional privileges of judicial status, to restore the current deficit found in guaranteeing the personal and operational independence of the military judges. As we know, with the current Constitution, justice is granted by courts set up by ordinary judges, who enjoy functional and personal independence. Under this provision of Article 87(1) of the Constitution, the legislator - and rightly so - took care, within the then post-political climate, to dismantle the function and work of members of military justice from within the structures of the Armed Forces. Of course, in accordance with Article 96(5) of the Constitution, the courts, courts, naval courts and tribunals shall be constituted by a majority of members of the Judiciary of the Armed Forces and those members, as reasonably plausible, are surrounded by the guarantees of the operational and personal independence referred to in Article 87(1) of the Constitution. However, the plenary session of the Council of State in 2003 did not accept in its decision that military judges were entitled to the special salary of judges, on the grounds that Article 96 of the Constitution does not refer to Article 88(2) on the remuneration of judges. Ladies and gentlemen, the guarantees of the operational and personal independence of the military judges cannot be partially provided. Both the wage issue and all other issues must come from these basic guarantees. The indiscriminate alteration of the constitutional guarantees of the personal and operational independence of military justice contributes to the upgrading of the relationship between democracy and justice. Moreover, the term "military judge" does not reflect the military status of the judge but its functional role. Both symbolically and essentially does not mean in a democratic European state to maintain any discrimination in the constitutional guarantees provided by judicial officers. And through the common legislative procedure, after the entry into force of this revised provision, the way for more modern legal arrangements is opened, with respect for military justice, for the principles of the European Convention on Human Rights, according to which every citizen, in any capacity, is tried by an independent and impartial court. I am going to Article 101a of the Constitution, which concerns the establishment and functioning of a relatively modern type of administrative body in the European legal order, the independent authorities whose function is to protect the independence of administrative action against the rights of the rightholders, but also to ensure the impartiality of the executive from the influence of the political authority. As we all know, apart from the five constitutionally provided independent authorities, there are others provided for by the law. There is no doubt that the work carried out by the independent authorities is essential and their operation is governed by quality characteristics limited to the State administration. Their operation has substantially contributed to the protection of personal data, broadcasting, public administration and other critical sectors. It is precisely because the independent authorities are addressing sensitive issues about the exercise of power of the State to the citizen that there is a need for a substantial modernisation of their establishment and operation, because there are many cases where the political system itself has played an important role in their operation. It should be recalled that in the previous government the TV licence law turned the National Telecommunications and Post Commission into an administrative structure of the Ministry of Infrastructure, while the same law removed substantial powers from the ERR to give the then Minister of State even more power. We must also remind ourselves of the successive deadlocks at the time, which, in the case of the National Broadcasting Council, have hit the prestige of the process. So, in a substantial effort to protect the credibility of the institution, the parliamentary majority has proposed a revision of the relevant article. It seeks, in other words, to form possible consensus, by reducing the required consensus in the institution of the Conference of Presidents from four fifths to three fifths, as a solution to the established vulnerability of the Greek political system to take decisions of broad party acceptance. But finding common partners, beyond and above party reasonable, must always be a constant demand for modern European states in the states that operate on the basis of liberal democratic values. Ladies and gentlemen, both the core of the review proposal and the general political attitude of the current parliamentary majority, puts the historical need for our country to develop, modernise, deserved democracy and credibility at the highest institutional and political level. The axis of political normality and the balance of institutions is reflected at every opportunity in the initiatives taken by this government, with the aim of ensuring the continuity of the state in conditions of more effective democracy, where the economy recovers and hope returns, a democracy where the functions of the state are distinct, with clear responsibilities and extensive accountability for Greek citizens and future generations, in which we owe more than we have done so far. And because I am the last speaker on the part of Members, I would like to close with the hope that in the next Review of the Constitution we will be more bold, more shallow and more progressive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u277	Before we close, he asked for the floor for a minute - and if anyone else wants it - the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Stylianides. To be fair, if one of the rapporteurs or parliamentarians wants to add something, one minute may take the floor. Mr. Stylianides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, the top process of the Constitution's Review is being completed this evening and we are making a brief statement by handing out to our political leaders and the House the work that preceded it on Monday. Overall, I have considered that our discussions have exceeded 30 hours, if we sum up the fruitful debate that took place in the committee and the debate that took place in plenary. A hundred and sixty-eight speakers have intervened in the committee. It must have been more than two hundred in plenary. And starting from a hundred and fifty-four disagreements in the Proposing House, which we have reduced to forty-nine peak points, I would say, in the Revision Committee, we have been able to meet in nine points. The Revision House, therefore, meets on nine points and, in my opinion, achieves nine very important changes, thanks to the high-level dialogue that was preceded by all the parties and by all the rapporteurs, by all the parliamentary representatives and, of course, by all the Members. I would therefore like to thank all my fellow Members of all the parties, because, although we have started from different ideological backgrounds, we have managed to meet at very critical points. I would like to thank you, Mr President, and with you all the Bureau of Parliament, your colleagues, the Secretariat of Parliament, the workers, who have been unhelpful for so many hours, I must say, have done their best to complete this great task. I would like to thank my fellow Members who, through their political interventions, have formulated the final proposals. On Monday, I think that the vote in this House will mark a new era, creating a state charter, which will speed up Greece's step towards the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, too. It was indeed an epilogue, which deserved to be said so, because we are completing the debate on the top parliamentary act, the Review of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u280	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u281	Mr. Loverdo, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u282	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Stylianides for his extremely good presidency in committee - once again we thank him - but also for his contribution to plenary. I would once again thank all my fellow rapporteurs and all my fellow Members for their contributions. However, since the President of the Commission, Mr Stylianides, said two words more about the substance of the project, I, too, in my last speech, would like to recapture what I have developed, as a critical reason for all our weeks of work, which are condensed in a phrase, Mr President, by Professor Antonis Manitakis, published yesterday in the 'NEA': 'A review that began unorthodoxly and ends fainted'. I think it is a very good title for the content of the work that ends in the nine proposals for the Revision of the Constitution. Nor do I wish to show any other negative attitude, but the positions made by the Change Movement, by me and by all colleagues, particularly Mr Kamine, all these days and by the committee and here, are condensed with what I have said and I do not need more detailed expressions. Congratulations to us to revise eight of the provisions which were needed to be revised because of the stubbornness, malnutrition and micro-participation, because the Constitution allowed these to be done, and a provision - the last subparagraph of Article 86(3) - which, if we did not revise it, would remain the short deadline for extinguishing that all Greeks and Greeks wanted to change. Now, we have the texts. We made a rough list of our choices, and I want you to know, Mr President, that our final choices, because we did not have the possibility of the fifty Members who would be presenting formal proposals, are made on the basis of a 'non-optional' criterion and we are accelerating to opinions that were not ours, but are closer to our views, and nonetheless on the basis of whether a provision of these proposals is revised by our own votes or not revised, because we are not voting. So when something needs to be revised, we will offer our twenty-two votes in order to achieve the revision. However - and this is my last sentence, I would like you to take note of this, because you are currently presiding - the final wording of the two parties were made, not under the responsibility of the SYRIZA, but under the responsibility of the New Democracy, tonight, that is, this afternoon. The JRC's initiative has already identified a weakness in one, Article 62. I want you to allow us to study in the morning, with a clear mind, the written texts and the Secretariat to welcome drafting changes. I mean, language changes. Otherwise, we will go on Monday and have the debate of the Heads at some point and I do not know whether we will be given the opportunity on Monday to correct the proposals that we shall be voting on. We are voting on a list, but it corresponds to proposals from the parties for changes in content or for additions to content. So, tomorrow or, if you cannot tomorrow because it is out of the question of Parliament, on Monday, after the speeches by the Heads, to stop, interrupt for half an hour, make corrections and then go to the vote. That's essential I'm saying now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor for two minutes or as long as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u284	I won't abuse time. I must say that I would not take the floor to close the President, but as the procedure has evolved, I should first of all like to say my appreciation of how the procedure has evolved and, finally, to thank all the factors involved in the revision. I do not agree with the criticism that has been made of the lack of ambition from the start. Since 2016, the then Prime Minister has launched political dialogue to become an estate of society. We thought that, for the first time in the parliamentary debate, there had to be a broad debate in Greece, organized by the committee known as Mr Spourdalakis, with many events in Greece. Nor did New Democracy characterise as a lack of ambition in the previous period. There are dozens of proposals that have been tabled by it, like dozens of proposals put forward by us. However, precisely because these proposals conducive to different ideological political proposals and because our Revision process wants to be completed with consensus, it was not possible to reach an institutional footprint more important than what we arrived at, since after the elections, this Review House has the specificity, in relation to all existing ones, to have a different majority than the one that started the Review. Nevertheless, I consider it positive, although I repeat the scope and depth of the Review to be not very extensive, that we have reached consensus on improving certain provisions. I consider it important to have the agreement in principle in Article 86 on the depreciation period for all the wings. But I consider it crucial for the honour of the political world, even the parties which did not agree in the interpretative declaration, to rethink it until Monday. I think it is important for the Review itself and for the general credibility of the political world. To conclude, I, too, want to thank the President of the Commission, the general rapporteur for the majority, the special rapporteurs and speakers of the parties and the staff of the House. Let me tell you that, despite our political differences, we have tried with a parliamentary morale, where there could be shocks, to find them. I think that this Review House enriched our parliamentary life and went further than the level of political dialogue between the parties. Thank you very much, Mr President, for always being a very noble and effective President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u285	I should like to say to Mr Loverdo that the insularity has been given to the rapporteurs and by Monday, if there are any comments, so that they will all be well at the end. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the revised provisions of the Constitution, which corresponds to the 6th and 7th section of the Constitutional Review Committee, i.e.: military judges, independent authorities, regional state organisation, OTA issues arrangements and final and transitional provisions, Articles 96 par. 5, 101A, 101p. 1 and 4, 101 (importation of interpretative statement), 102 para. 2, 112 pp. 4 (repealing paragraph), 113 (repeal), 114(1). 1, 114 pp. 2 (repealing paragraph), 115(1). 1 and 2, 115 pp. 3 (repealing paragraph), 115(1). 4 (repealing paragraph) and 119(1). 1 (repealing paragraph) of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-22-S1-commons.u286	With the consent of the House at 22.01', the sitting on Monday, November 25, 2019, at 10.00', on the subject of Parliament's work: Parliament's decisions: debate, at the level of the parties, and decision (vote) on the revised provisions of the Constitution, in accordance with Rule 110 of the Constitution and Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, according to the agenda that has been distributed to you.
