ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Parliament's decisions: "To amend the Rules of Procedure of Parliament - Part II" (GATT 51 A/104-1997) and Part Parliamentary (Government Gazette 106 A 224-86), as applicable". The rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives will be given the floor if they want to do so for ten minutes. The majority rapporteur, Mrs Panayota Kozoboli, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, if I may, I should first like to present two legislative improvements outside my speech, so that the following ones can be put in place. I'll testify to them in the Minutes. The first concerns the payroll of posted officials. We're saying it's up to the House, not the hosting agency. Also, in Article 12 of the proposal - which replaces Rule 111 - the phrase 'which serve in Parliament by secondment until the publication of this proposal' is replaced by the words 'which serve in Parliament by secondment in the 20-01-2019'. It's about the dissolution of the river. Secondly, Article 21 of the proposal adds paragraph 2 as follows: ‘In the event of the loss of membership of a parliamentary group from which it comes before the entry into force of this amendment, the self-determination of the term of office of the members of the Bureau of the Parliament shall take place by means of the publication of this amendment in the Official Journal of the Government’. I'm tabling them in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mrs. Kozobol, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has a tradition. Its work is consensual, its decisions come almost unanimously, with small exceptions, and we have developed a culture of dialogue. For three and a half years this committee has been working on an amnesty - I would say - and did what was announced at the first sitting by the President of Parliament, namely to amend both parts of the Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that especially Part II relating to the management of human resources, staff, consisted of diffuse, scattered provisions that could be found everywhere or nowhere and involved an opaque way to promote and move employees. This part has made it work in a transparent, democratic manner for all civil servants. At yesterday's committee meeting, however, ladies and gentlemen, this reduction in the demarcation of the opinion was also passed on to this committee. Yesterday we had not had the view on this legislation proposed by the President of Parliament, which was put forward and which came to be voted on today, not on this particular point, if it is good or bad, if it helps workers, if the parliamentary work helps, if problems are solved, but, unfortunately, the criterion to vote on or not to vote on this provision was the speedy one. If SYRIZA brings it, he's the bad guy SYRIZA, SYRIZA has to fall, so I'm not voting for it. It is the practice of confrontation not on the substance, nor on the substance of the procedure, because the procedure also has substance many times, but not on them, but on procedural terminology - let me say that, with tripods and false news aimed at thundering and falsifying reality. However, this particular process, ladies and gentlemen, gives rise to the work of Parliament, hurts democracy, despises the political system and, alas, nourishes the monster of the far right and fascism. Because the citizen sees this whole process without substance, I repeat, turns his back on everything. The citizen is interested in seeing laws protecting the first residence being passed, which regulate his debts, which do not cut his pensions, which increase the minimum wage, in general, that improve his everyday life and his reality. Despite attempted symptoms, citizens will see who defends their interests and what their own micro-political interests are. However, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, as it has been doing for three and a half years now, continues to amend the Rules of Procedure, both sides, with a view to rationalising it, more efficient operation of Parliament's services and the management of its staff and parliamentary procedures. Changes and codifies devices scattered, opaque processes become evident and removes hostages of workers, hostages of years. Today legislative regulations are being passed which amend Part One and Part II of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the more effective operation of the services under the vote shall be filled in in voids of the Rules of Procedure. Article 1 adds to the powers of the Chamber of Members and Members that a register of plenary sessions is to be kept. Article 2 provides for the possibility of two years instead of three years of term of the Diplomatic Adviser of the Parliament. Article 3 sets out criteria for accreditation and entry into the House of Media Representatives. This is not a censorship. These are some extreme cases that are offensive to employees, to parliamentarians and generally prevent the functioning of the House. Articles 4 and 17 strengthen and upgrade the work of the State Budget Office in Parliament and upgraded in accordance with the OECD's proposals. We also have an adjustment to the regulation of the Special Assets Control Agency in the relevant legislation that has already been adopted and which governs the control of statements of assets. Rule 6 states that officials of the House who may be posted in offices of Vice-Presidents of the Parliament may not be more than four in order to make better use of the staff of the Parliament. Article 9 provides officials with the possibility of switching to the House by decision of the Staff Council and always in accordance with the staff requirements. Here is the counterfactual way in which the secondments and movements in the House were made and the way, by the board, the operational and service needs that are being made today. Added to the moves and something else. Apart from the decisions and needs mentioned above, the social criteria are added to a move. In Article 13, the President of the Parliament may, on a recommendation from the service concerned, extend the time limit for payment of advance payment orders until the end of the following financial year from that issued by the payment order. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we are treating an incredible vulnerability and I hope that the provision will also be adopted in the rest of the public sector, which, when a certain amount is not exhausted for expenditure which has been decided on and may also be under way for the specific work that has been planned for the money, will be returned back at the end of the financial year and will then have to be reappeared with an incredible delay and bureaucracy. So that changes. We have the possibility of issuing credit cards for payment of certain expenses, travel, etc. It is foreseen that the procurement procedures initiated before October 2018, when Parliament's electronic procurement system was implemented, will continue and be completed in accordance with the rules in force at the time it was launched. Rule 16 removes the Memorandum of Understanding with which the payment of damages to the officials of the Parliament had been frozen even if they had done an additional job. So that's what's going on, that's going to break out. Article 19 sets out a serious lack of transparency, ladies and gentlemen, a group of workers who were literally in a state of uncertainty and hostility. They are the Special Guards of the Parliament where their relationship is regulated, their duties and the procedure for their transfer. Until the third term of office has been completed, the House shall be transferred to meet the needs of permanent staff and branches according to their qualifications. I would like to say here that a committee has already been set up and that the qualifications of this category of workers are already being examined. Rule 21 intervenes in the parliamentary part of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and adds to paragraph 3 of Rule 9 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. According to this addition, it seems that the term of office of the Vice-President of the Parliament, the Secretaries and the Quaestors ends here. Here, therefore, after a number of cases have been said, another case is added: it automatically ends in the event of a loss of membership of the parliamentary group from which it comes. Here, let me commend Mr Lykoudis' attitude, which at the committee meeting, not only voted in favour of the provision that'repealed' him, but also his position and his whole behaviour was dignified. I will also thank him as a Member of Parliament for cooperating in the performance of his duties. Let me note that nowadays, unfortunately, self-evident things are demanded. Finally, the measures introduced today are all in favour of the employees of the Parliament. It is crucial that these interests are shielded, unfortunately, by micro-political purposes. I therefore call on all the groups in Parliament and all the Members of Parliament to vote in favour of these provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too, for keeping time, not least. The President, Mr Tragakis, has the floor on the New Democracy side. Mr. Tragakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, in my multiannual term here, in Parliament I have been involved many times in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but also in the plenary which we are debating the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has always been a convergence area. It was a field where all the groups could say their views to calm tone, so that we could move forward with the changes and amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the House. I'm sorry this time this consensual climate has been torpedoed. And he has been torpedoed by the Prime Minister himself, because the Prime Minister in the letter he sent, and by all his statements all this time he has made torpedoes this consensual climate and has been divisive. This division has also come to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. There has been a political division and a political division. That makes sense. For example, there was a division in the amendment of the Rules of Procedure which wanted to be made, which is an intervention within this House, and there was also a division, of course, because there was a problem with regard to the independence between Parliament, the legislative procedure and the executive, namely, intervened in the separation of powers. I shall refer to each of them. On the political level, the Prime Minister sent the letter to everyone. He said that the Civic Opposition carried out the other opposition parties, in order to be contrary to all that Mr. Janakopoulos had announced, that corrections would be made with regard to Parliament's Rules of Procedure to identify the Group of Independent Greeks. All this time, then, we have experienced a morbid phenomenon of political division. However, this political division has also led to a division in the functioning of the House itself. Because the Prime Minister calls on the President of the Parliament to proceed with proceedings which are out of order. Because what he wanted to correct, as Mr Janakopoulos said, was Article 15(1) and (2), which says? It states, for example, that the groups set up must have ten Members and when they cease to have ten and five, and the five Members must have been elected with the same party. That doesn't change with anything. And it doesn't change with anything, why? Because there is an opinion from the Scientific Council of Parliament and not from the Scientific Committee mentioned by the Prime Minister in his letter. Because the Scientific Council delivered an opinion on a proposal from the President and the Scientific Council that it gave its opinion since 2013 had delivered what I said. That Article 15(1) and (2) shall not change. Therefore, there was an opinion. But what happened yesterday? On behalf of the Greeks, my colleague made a letter to the President of Parliament calling for this matter to be referred to the Scientific Council of Parliament in order to give an opinion on exactly what I said. Someone informed Mr. Kammenos. What does that mean? When this letter was submitted, it goes on to say that the relationship between Mr Kammenos and Mr Tsipras was going through different stages. I won't accept blackmail, I won't accept anything, but it was going through different stages. So when Mr Kammens was informed that there was this opinion, he sent a letter to the President of Parliament and said to him: do not send the opinion to the Scientific Council, because there is an opinion on it. In conclusion, I would like to say this. The Prime Minister, in his letter, made the New Democracy an important reaction to this project, along with the other parties in the Opposition. It means, therefore, that the aim set by the New Democracy not to move this process forward, as it went on, has been achieved. So, I can believe it was a political gain. Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure are our gospel. It is the gospel we must all observe according to the requirements of the Constitution. What happened yesterday with regard to the letters from the six Members, who were sent to the President of Parliament, is useless papers. They don't matter. That is, they cannot prejudge what they will vote in bills in advance. That's incomprehensible. I'll be in a little bit for the geography of the six. I would like to tell you that if the government brings, of course, a government - as they have said, for example, archaeological sites, let me mention the Parthenon, to be sold. I mean, first of all, they give the consensus on such a matter, which is, of course, unthinkable, isn't it? I put it as an extreme example to see that there is no prior consent. There can be no consensus in advance. Of course, there is the phenomenon of the six fellow Members participating in a parliamentary group voting in favour of another parliamentary group, namely the government minority - because there is no governmental majority, the government is a minority - to vote for a government minority. So you understand that there is an institutional problem here, but there is also a problem of democracy, because it is incomprehensible, for example, for two Members to belong to another party and have given their vote in white to another party. This is incomprehensible, it can't be done and it's never been done. He's a crook! I don't find any words to be able to characterize it. In my opinion, therefore, we are in an institutional diversion of Parliament's democratic institutions. I mean it. Because it is incomprehensible for Members to belong to another parliamentary group and have voted in white for any bill in the governmental minority, except for the fact that four colleagues of them are also in government form. Why don't they go to the formation in which they're Ministers? These were on the political side, which I wanted to mention. As far as the articles are concerned, I would like to say that there are improvements. There are articles which improve Parliament's Rules of Procedure. There are also articles which cast some doubts on us, some of which we will be opposed to. Let me make a glance of the articles, because they have been done by my colleague. I'll do it, too. Otherwise, I was going to do it from my position, but I will make a gleaning if the President gives me the time. For example, in the Department of Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, the addition to keeping records is positive. The staff of the Diplomatic Adviser's office, I think, will leave me a question mark, and that's why we'll see about it. I was opposed to the right of entry to parliamentary editors, as was Mr Pafilis. The President, however, in his position in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure and the Verification of Credentials, I was convinced. I shall analyse this, so that everyone can understand it, because anyone who reads it in a cold way believes that the President of the Parliament with a completely authoritarian style will forbid parliamentary authors from entering the House. But what's going on here? As all these existing sites have been created, you realise that each of us can make a site, it will be possible on this site to designate himself as a responsible parliamentary body and to come and ask Parliament for approval to be present to parliamentary authors. So you realise that there are some cases - we are not all saying, but for these cases, there will be various malfunctions and the blockade of the parliamentary procedure. For the Bureau of Parliament, I have studied it well. In the form that they are, I am not in agreement. We could have changed it and corrected it with regard to certain aspects of it, but because we are not voting by paragraph but we are voting on an article, it is a reservation. For the Special Rules of Procedure of the House on Asylum Statement Control, because I have been President of the Commission on 'whereabouts', to say it simply, I know the difficulties facing this committee, I know what a difficult task it has to deal with, and we are positive about that. With regard to the availability of staff at the Offices of Vice-Presidents, I do not think there is a point here. As far as the Special Secretary is concerned, once again the addition of a word which is something, like eight, nine, ten, is one of what does not matter. In Article 11 there is one topic. You know that it is about those who are on the Scientific Council of the Parliament who are making a reduction in their earnings, without having to do so, because they do not collect any travel costs, nor travel expenses, nor overtime. Article 12 is for seconded employees. The financial warrants and what is relevant improve the situation and are, on a proposal from the financial services of the House, for certain malfunctions that have been presented and for Article 16, we are positive. For the Commission on the Special Budget of the State, I have some reservations here. For the Asylum Control Committee, Article 18, because it is a follow-up to the previous, is a positive sign. For Article 20, which is harmonisation, too. The end of the term of office of the Bureau is an issue that we have faced with in some difficult situation and I think it has to be corrected and correctly corrected. For checking the legal person's accounts, we see it positive. Article 23, which concerns the Legal Support Department of the House, will look into it, to see exactly what it is about. With regard to the legislative improvements tabled by my colleague, I have looked at them and I think they are - the legislative improvements, not the articles on which they relate - in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress, in closing, that the political climate should not affect our parliamentary procedures. We're in front of the Revision of the Constitution. And because I calculate that next week the Constitutional Review will come, I would like to point out from this step - I will be given the opportunity to do so, but I would now like to do so, because I see many Members participating in it - who have done a great deal of work in the Constitutional Review Committee. All Members of Parliament, all parties, have expressed their views. There was a very serious discussion at academic level. I think that the historian of the future, which will refer to the Commission's minutes, will find information which will be scientifically useful. I would also like once again to thank Parliament's officials, the Parliament's guard and, in general, all the Members of this House. If you see, in all my speeches on the Rules of Procedure of the House, this is my inclination, my closing. I want to stress that we have the best staff. We need to use it and take care of it. We've got a huge obligation for them. Everyone when they see the House thinks that when the House finishes, they will leave. Officials don't leave, as you know. We might finish at 22.00, at 23.00 and at 12 o'clock, and they leave after four and five hours. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the Constitutional Review Committee is tabling its report. [[The above mentioned report of the Constitutional Review Committee, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate, is submitted for the minutes.]] In addition, the Standing Committees on Public Administration, Public Order and Economic Affairs shall submit their report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction ‘Integration into Greek law: (a) Directive (EU) 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies and (b) Article 1 of Council Directive (EU) 2017/2455 of 5 December 2017’. Also, the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister of Finance tabled today 5-2-2019 draft law: ‘Definition of 24 January 2019 Convention on the Extension of the “Airport Development Convention”, signed in Athens on 31 July 1995 and ratified by Law 2338/1995 (A'202). It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Finally, my fellow Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, is calling for a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u8	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that there is always consensus in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. It is not true that discussions are always pointless. If there was consensus, then you wouldn't be here today so many. You should not be here today, as you have never been so many in a debate on the Rules of Procedure of the House. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I recognize the interest, because it exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u10	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u11	Because today it is a political matter. I must also tell you that, in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, there are consensus when they are formulated through dialogue, consensus, common goal, and there is also the possibility of a composition of the opposite or different opinions. In some cases this applies. Not always. The majority used - because they are no longer - its superiority to pass some provisions, such as the majority of SYRIZA. I am glad that you are here today, because yesterday's letter from the Prime Minister recommends a brutal violation of the Rules of Procedure of the House and the constitutionally guaranteed principle of the separation of powers. The cynical way, in our view, that the Prime Minister chose to address the President of Parliament, the third state player of the society, does not only demonstrate his understanding of the functioning of the institutions, but above all his contempt for these institutions. The Prime Minister is assigned to the President of Parliament acts and omissions "don't do that, do that". Now there was "please, as among other things...", with the strict suggestion not to change a single point from the Rules of Procedure of the House. And the President of the House consents. During the proceedings followed by SYRIZA, it could be a pre-aggregated one by both - Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Voutsi - a political escape from extortion conducted so many days against the Prime Minister, threatening revelations every day. However, this would presuppose that they would not have been exposed to announcements or any changes in the Rules of Procedure, on the one hand, and, on the other, that the diligent, ladies and gentlemen would have assumed that there would be no leaks from Maximos for changes in the Rules of Procedure, so that Mr Kammens would calm down. But the Prime Minister has changed his mind. That's the point. It's nothing else. The Prime Minister changed his mind yesterday and chose to show that he allegedly controls the game with the help of willing, committed or "unless" MPs, who were already preparing their statements to make them public about the news of 20.00. So, despite the fact that we have tried not to protect Mr Voutsi's political authority, but the political authority of the President of Parliament and to ask him to answer - as the Committee on the Rules of Procedure - that we do not accept - that was my proposal yesterday - suggestions: 'Please beg me if there is ambiguity...', that is to say, commands, stimuli for actions and omissions. Therefore, for us, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is neither a bank for political transactions nor an annex to the Grand Maximus nor a backdrop of the contradictory choices made by the government group. The Prime Minister's suggestion to the President of the Parliament goes beyond the limits of the violation of the separation of powers and takes the form of raw intervention in the functioning of Parliament, with behaviours which are forms and types of operation of other regimes such as the Orban one. The President of the Parliament is not a member of the Prime Minister to give him orders and what the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the President of the Parliament is not suggesting by the Prime Minister. That is the difference in applying the Rules of Procedure, in applying the Constitution. The difference is that when it comes to suggesting, if you wish, in a stubborn way or when the Prime Minister tries to indicate what the Committee on the Rules of Procedure or the President of the Parliament is going to do, we should tell him that he simply does not have the right, perfect and discuss it between us. The most anti-institutional atom of the Prime Minister's letter is the mandate of Mr Tsipras to "for any ambiguity that may exist in the Rules of Procedure, please as you refer to the opinion of the Scientific Council of Parliament". Despite our objections yesterday, the President of the Parliament immediately appealed to the Prime Minister's wish, not to present his political status, but to his institutional role. These are the symptoms of a imperfection of parliamentary institutions, the decline of a large majority, which now enjoys the commitment of the six Members of Parliament to vote, regardless of the contents, any bill brought by SYRIZA. This is not the function of Parliament. It is not just a culmination of parliamentary institutions. It is a political transaction between certain ministerial perpetrators or - the unprecedented - a forerunner between parliamentary groups, who are members of a parliamentary group in opposition, are agreed to support the government in certain bills in need of them. The country is not worth such a decline! The worst is that the citizens who are currently seeing in the House, with the incoming MPs from the Opposition in Cooperativeism, with the political transaction, with the retention of ministerial perpetrators, what do they think? They are destroying the political system and this function of Parliament. From this decadent political behaviour, ladies and gentlemen, it loses democracy, wins the extremities, benefits and fuels the Golden Dawn. That is what we want to end in the only democratic way that exists, namely elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u12	October.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u13	Anytime. That's exactly what I'd say, that the ending...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u14	With 5.5%...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u15	You're dreaming, Mr. Comrade. The end of the statusal and cynical way of exercising power is a way out for democracy. So if you make the elections, you'll lose them. You want October? October. You want May? May. Whenever you wish, it is only as long as you do not continue with this function of Parliament. That is what the citizens see, that is what they are devastated and, above all, that is what they blame. What we tell them is that we are not all responsible for what you have built as a political life of the country. In the few minutes left, I shall be speaking on the Rules of Procedure, since we must discuss what it proposes and discuss some of the provisions which obviously cannot have our own consensus. Articles 4 and 17 strengthen the role of Coordinator of the State Budget Office in Parliament. It is being abolished - why, after all? - the provision in the current Parliament's Rules of Procedure for the posting of Office reports to the Parliamentary Transparency and their presentation to the Standing Committee on Budgetary Control and General Balance sheet of the State, as well as the State's Budgetary Control. Why? What do we have to fear from the posting of the Parliamentary Transparency of the State Budget Office reports? What for? Don't we like transparency? Are they saying something that isn't good? Do they perhaps say something that deviates from the government's official economic policy? There's no problem, because you won't be government soon. So what they say will be about another government. What's the problem? Why should we exclude from the 'Social Transparency' what is a tool for all Members, namely an independent opinion of an office, which we all respect and which draws up reports on the state of the economy? Paragraph 2 of the Article provides for the possibility of submitting the Office to an external evaluation at least once during the five-year term of office of the coordinator and may relate to the quality and adequacy of the reports. How will we assess the coordinator if we cannot know the reports or should we be obliged to ask for them every time? They are intended, exclusively, to strengthen the independence of the coordinator, the reasons why it can be removed from his post. Look at that. Four years ago I could believe in your good intentions. Today, however, at the end of this parliamentary term, after four years, when you put the sole reasons that can be removed - I would not like it for anyone - the coordinator, then I understand that you simply want to ensure a full five-year term for today's coordinator. Yes, but this is about the decision of the House, the Bureau and the relevant committees. You cannot institutionalize it, because you are simply tangled. That's what I'm telling you. You cannot ask for such a consensus. In Rule 9 there is a proposal to transfer posted officials to the House. I would like to say to you this: since 2010 such a provision no longer applies. And that is by decision of the then President of Parliament, Mr Petsalniku. I'll tell you one more thing about it, which gives us a special question. For the first time, lawyers with an unpaid order may be transferred to a post of permanent officials of the Parliament. What for? Article 19 regulates the transfer of special guards to permanent staff members and to branches according to their qualifications. We have been supporting this provision from the very first moment and have proposed that the President of the Parliament proceed so that the labour insecurity ends. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that where consensus needs to be formed, it can only be shaped if many wings want it. Today's amendments to the Rules of Procedure come at the expense of the political data of a government which wants to use any means of mobilising parliamentary institutions so that it remains a few weeks, a few months in power. So I'm just saying it's not incomplete, but it's dangerous. And it is dangerous, because citizens are turning their backs on these droughts, it is dangerous, because the only ones who benefit from this defiance of parliamentary institutions are the enemies of democracy, it is the Golden Dawn, and you should prevent it, instead of adopting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Pope from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Papatheodorou is a very good reader of the results of the last survey "METRON ANALYSIS" and what he's rather afraid of is the fourth place from the fourth place if you're in the fifth place. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the political turbulence, the political anomaly, I would say, now characterises political life. We are before a constitutional diversion. Last example is the designs of the government, the government minority, which attempted to introduce articles in the Rules of Procedure of the House, so that the President of the Potamio, with the non-existent parliamentary group, Mr Theodorakis, and the potential President of a non-existent parliamentary group, Mr Kammenos, can benefit, in other words, these political remains and enjoy all the privileges offered by the current regulation to a constituted parliamentary group, which has five, at least, MPs. Before this amendment comes to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and before Mr Tsipras retreats, we have said and stated - and we will say, because it can again be attempted by SYRIZA, in which we have no confidence - our total opposition. We denounced the shadow theater that has been playing in the last few days - I would say in the last few weeks - in the House. The government was well-deserved by this Step by the President of our Parliamentary Group, the Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn, Mr Michaeliakos, as "Government Frankenstein". The government, with unholy and unprecedented political games, which have a perfume of apostasy, leads the Greek Parliament to a situation which is very reminiscent of - I have said so from this Step - July 1965. We remind ourselves here of the turbulent period of apostasy. Then, of course, we had the interventions of the palace and the American factor. We now have interventions of a 'old', which refers to the same delightful and political life of the palaces, the interventions of the 'old' called the Maximos Megaron. The Government shall ensure a marginal majority. This has also been seen in the case of the vote of confidence, but also in the majority of the Members of Parliament, in the case of the ratification of the betrayal agreement of the Ambassadors. They support the Government of MPs elected under the cover of other parties, i.e. the New Democracy, the ANELs, the Potami and the Union of Centres. The MPs - and I shall mention by name - Kountoura, Papakostas, Papachristopoulos, Zouraris, Kokkalis and Danellis joined the Greek Parliament in a special and unprecedented way at SYRIZA. They called for their votes to be counted positively on the votes of the Opposition, culminating in the two characteristic cases of Papachristopoulos, a resignation, a resignation, and a Zurari, who said he would also be a member of the SYRIZA and the ANELs, that is, he would also be with the Co-population and with the Opposition. It's a vicious situation! Perimeter proof of the incomplete, from time to time, image of the incumbent parties of post-multiplier, of the parties calling themselves a 'constitutional arch'. In their letter, the six Member States do not only ensure a majority of the legislation which the government, SYRIZA, intends to bring to the vote until the elections. Not only do the six satisfy SYRIZA. The six satisfying New Democracy, which thus avoids the suffering of the roll-call votes. Another demonstration in the eyes of the Greek people that sees us, about how well the game between the two major parties is. On the 'first time on the left', therefore, we were also going to live in this prestige of 'conflicting opposition'. Unfortunately - I will be allowed to say something that has been said many times in this Chamber and to be precise, in the Chamber of the Old Parliament - is absolutely right to the great satirist poet of the last century, George Suris, who, for ever, had written the prophetic lyrics here: "Unfortunately, with the children you have given birth: O Greece, heroic country, what are you doing now?". In all this, we have had the inadmissible involvement of Mr Tsipras, the Prime Minister, in the parliamentary procedures of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The President of Parliament described the Prime Minister's letter as top political intervention in committee yesterday. And he was absolutely right. That's right. Intervention. Except it wasn't just politics. It was both cynical and out-institutional and insulting and contemptuous to Parliament, the intervention of the executive to the legislative power, one of the four - of the executive - if we count the fourth power, i.e. the media in this grid of overlapping powers, which is squeezing, which - I would say better - the Greek people and clearly shows us that we are living not in democracy, but in a regime of 'priorized parliamentary dictatorship'. In view of many other essential issues, I would like to mention the passage from Mr Tsipras's letter to Mr Voutsi. Mr Tsipras writes: 'I ask you not to take any initiative to change the current Rules of Procedure or to change them'. This position of the Prime Minister is not unfortunate, it is machivell and refers to the regimes of the former Eastern bloc. In essence, the Prime Minister intervened in the Competition Committee as if the Competition Committee were part of the Maximus. And there is a big issue here, and there is a question of the functioning of the culture. Even the way, even the style of the Prime Minister's letter to the President of Parliament, demonstrate further the accuracy of what I tell you. And I would like to mention that Parliament's operation in the course of Mr Voutsi - SYRIZA-SYRIZA's and the New Democracy's Liaison Officer's - has collapsed. Parliament has become a tool in the hands of the Prime Minister so that the Prime Minister can play it in his letter that he is not blackmailed, he does not, as the people say, retreat. He did so, after he had already secured the government's support from the six political convoys, the six foreign parliamentarians. Mr Papatheodorou described them as "the strays", I am more mild, I call them "the strangers". These six Members do not represent their voters at all, but they represent themselves and their own personal interests alone. And it is a heavy responsibility for the President of Parliament in the shaped situation, because I must say that the President owns, according to the constitution in force, the third post of state is an institution. My reproach to Mr. Voutsi's face is purely political, of course. He may be elected MP, but in reality he cannot represent the elected Members, the whole of the Greek MPs. It cannot be the president of the nation's representatives for an additional feature, because according to your idea - the idea of SYRIZA, the Left - there is no representative of the nation, there is no nation for you. The nation is a construction of the oligarchy, it is a construction of capital. But, in addition to that, the President is, unfortunately, working here as SYRIZA's party leader. It interprets the Rules of Procedure of the House and exploits it as appropriate, for its own political benefit by micro-party tactics. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I think, Mr President, that I should also have the tolerance of the rest of the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u18	Yes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. It's my view. I have the right to expose her, I think, Mr. Voutsi. You're working micro-groups. And you give me the right to say, to ask: does this stand involve you personally, political benefits? So, please satisfy your left audience, when you continue, when the Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn or other speakers speak - and to be fair, you are not only doing so with us, but, above all, with us - at the end of the speech you want to interpret the words of the Secretary-General or Members of Parliament? You don't have to worry about it. You don't have to worry And many times you tell MPs not to interpret words and we speak politically here. So there's gonna be censorship, or do you always want to have the last conversation? People see and understand. I would remind you of the sitting of 13 July last year. You sat here in the middle. I had intervened on a matter as a parliamentary representative, you had to answer and admit in public - and that is the tragic one - in Parliament's Chamber that you are not responding, because you are prejudiced against the Golden Dawn. So you have prejudice for a legitimate political party, elected by hundreds of thousands of Greeks, whom we Greeks represent here. Is that a political scarf? Are you following Polakis' tactics? But let's put the gold Dawn apart. To talk politically differently. To focus exclusively on these incredible events which have taken place in the House over the last few days, which poison the country's political life. Mr. Papachristopoulos went to your office. He invented his letter of resignation and you completely anti-ethnic, ex-institutional, in addition to the Rules of Procedure of the House, in addition to what is foreseen by your position, as a party seat you pleaded for and said to him "you know, because you must vote for the admission of Skopje to NATO, I am not accepting the resignation. Please wait and give an extension of four to five days." Mr Papachristopoulos himself told the reporters. And is it possible to accept you as President of all Members? You don't represent us. Does that please you? But it gives us much more pleasure. I said at the beginning - and I shall end, Mr President, and thank you - that we are living in the days of Julians in 1965. You are trying to divide the Greek people and you will bring the other Juliana, the Julians of the 1920 division. But the Greek people will not allow you to do so. He won't let you. The Greek people are united. The Greek people have shown this at the last rallys. He's shown it in squares, streets. It shows it every day. You poison political life. Mr President, you are now a weak party and the sooner you leave power, the more this sad minority of yours with the intrigues, with the dolphins, with the slender ones you have made with individual MPs and parties stop them and fall into elections the better it will be for the country. I now come to Parliament's Rules of Procedure. In all your options we are negative. We are proud that as a political movement we are out of your procedures and understanding. And I don't mean the river and the independents and the ANELs and the rest, I mean the New Democracy. And I told the committee yesterday. It seems to me or rather it does not surprise me, but I say it, so that the people who, when you enter the Conference of Presidents, always stop in front of the representatives, the representatives seated, the New Democracy and speak whisperingly. What are you interacting over there talking whispering with the neo-democrats? They unite you a lot. Piat unites you, Knesset unites you. You are now united too much, Mr President. The common acceptance of the name "North Macedonia", that is to say, geographical definition.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u20	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u21	So this cooperation, the great cooperation that Soros wants, will be proved in the future. We'll be against you. We will meet with you, expressing the true people's right, the people's right of Orthodoxy, family, homeland, ethos, progress, Grammos, Vitsi, the real Greece we want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u22	Mr Athanasios Pafilis has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u23	Now that the fascists of the Golden Dawn are pulling the crucifix out and putting the tie and presenting themselves as defenders of supposed constitutional legitimacy, praisers of the junta that has also destroyed this urban system, it is at least a challenge and it is both ridiculous and literally ridiculous. Talking about the intervention of the foreign factor, those whose political ancestors were the para-state, was the murderous one, and were mostly throughout the history of the younger Greece, the right hand of the conquerors, Germans, Italians, Bulgarians, the para-state of the murder of Lambraki of the post-election regime, the state and the para-state on the junta, is at least a challenge for the Greek. And we don't have to, we think, no answer. Just what Aleka Papariga said is true: "On a course they will take off the tie, take off the champagne crosses and present themselves as defenders of bourgeois legality." That's what they do today to fool the world. In our opinion, therefore, there is no need for any response. So let me get through to the point. Since the debate is of a general nature, despite the fact that we should be discussing the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, it is, however, normal to be influenced by the general political climate. With regard to the issue of transfers, movements, etc., which are happening in Parliament, we want to address the Greek people and say very simply that they must judge beyond the crisis of the civil system and everything that happens, because they so easily move Members from one party to another. Of course, there were such examples in the past, too, few exceptions. Why do they take a mass character? Because the move is inside the walls. Because there is such convergence, literally, in the strategies and on individual topics, among the urban parties in this House, which there is no problem leaving one of these parties, going to the other, leaving one system reserve and going to the other, leaving again and going elsewhere, to appear as independents, etc. This is the essence of all these transcripts. Because, in fact, what the Greek people need to know is that, in the entire parliamentary history of Greece, there were such phenomena and conflict was one: among those who defended this system, as it is today, and among those who wanted to overthrow it, which was the JRC. That is also expressed today in the House. And I do not want to go ahead and say a few tickles. Secondly, this convergence is also reflected in parliamentary practices. And really, I ask all parties: why are you yelling? What party outside the JRC does not accept to the Parliamentary Group Members elected with another party and join another parliamentary group? That is unacceptable! What party in here? Is there anyone? What? The New Democracy? Didn't he get MPs from the river? PASOK or KINAL didn't get any more MPs? SYRIZA didn't get any more MPs? Annells didn't get another MP? They're right next to you. So why are you all complaining?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u24	We didn't!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u25	From Golden Dawn, didn't they leave? They're gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u26	They're gone, we didn't!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u27	One came back with repentance - I don't want to go on - and the other is opening streets with Mr. Kammenos. And you blame us for nationalism. It opens up this forehead, the Northern Lega, all that's written down. So why are you complaining? What kind of hypocrisy is this, everybody? We were fifteen and we were fifteen. And we have a position of principle which says that any Member who disagrees with his party elected him in the parliamentary elections resigns, goes to the people and then, as far as we are concerned, we can discuss political cooperation, agree on programmes. Why don't you all do this and accept those who leave elsewhere? Or why are the others leaving and not resigning, going to the election and coming back here? So here's what we're talking about, the urban parliamentarian. Why can't that be? Because what is important is to support in general the anti-grassroots policy implemented by all governments until now with the European Union and NATO. That's where they start, when the others leave, it's an act of conscience, when others leave it is a transaction or backwards. And there is such a fight to disorientate the people from the main problem that is the political problem, namely which policy is being pursued, which parties are with the interests of the rural order and the people, and what parties are with the interests of capital, parts of capital and the interests of imperialism in general. The second issue. Mr Tsipras' speech has risen a great deal. We say that Mr Tsipras' speech was made under a climate that was created and which literally humiliates all of what is happening in the House to gather and, of course, because the hundred and fifty-one were guaranteed. However, do you dare and speak all of you - I mean the New Democracy and the PASOK and the others and SYRIZA - for interference in the separation of powers? But who are you kidding, really? Whoever has fifty-five Members in this House makes president or not? It's coming out. What's the president? Over the institutions? Is it not the President of a party that takes a majority, and is it not, in fact, a large majority in the people? Because no one has taken 51%, at least in recent years, except '74 - to be precise, under certain circumstances - and regardless of how the election result is shaped. Who are you kidding, really? What do you tell the people about distinguishing powers? What distinction? The majority party gets the president. The majority party gets majority in all committees. Yes or no? Yeah. So he's doing whatever he wants. There is, of course, also the institutional framework, the'sheet of figurative' which may be the Rules of Procedure - or I do not know - and the Constitution. But how are these interpreted, and the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, so that people understand what is going on here in Parliament? They are interpreted with the principle of majority voting. Objection to unconstitutional. Who rejects it? One hundred and fifty. Yes or no? So what safeguard? How is the Constitution interpreted? As the hundred fifty - one interprets it or may be more. So what safeguard? How does all the committees work, this majesty of democracy's mockery, in the urban context? You are not going to say what you want, raise your hands and reject the simplest and most sensible amendment that you can do. There are too many examples throughout history. Second theme: What independence? You say 'Justice is the third pillar and it is independent'. Well, are you kidding us? Who appoints the leadership of justice? Any government, yes or no? All this happened in the past few years, and now it's happening with SYRIZA, who reported it back then. It applies exactly the same practices. And you don't even accept the proposal we have made, that is, let it be appointed by a wider elitism, to discuss it, to have some objectivity. And you're talking about independence of justice? What independence of justice, when all of you vote for the people and the judge is called upon to apply them and hang them on top of him, the damocles will be broken if they take him and blame him for not applying them properly, with bright exceptions of heroic judges, who make some fameful decisions. What independence of justice and institutions, when 99% of strikes are declared illegal? Hypocrites, everybody! Why are 99% illegally proclaimed? Everyone's wrong? When it's on order! Can I give you examples? Pireas and others, before they could announce it, "unlawful", before farmers could be mobilised, they could be caught at the SYRIZA government now by the D.A.'s office. So, all this, for the Greek people to know, is a pretext and hypocrisy of so-called democracy. Thirdly, the question of the parliamentary groups has been raised and it is an opportunity to address ourselves. We have been placed in public and the Secretary-General of our Party and members of the Party. Repeat, the position of the JRC is simple proportional: with 1%, three Members, a parliamentary group. With 2%, six Members, Parliamentary Group. With 10%, fifteen Members, a parliamentary group. With 15%, 15 Members, Parliamentary Group. Not that the system will change. The system will change with popular mobilisation, will be overthrown by the people themselves. At least, the will of the people is recorded to a certain extent, as is apparent from the elections. The elections, of course, take place under blackmail - we know them all - but people think and others vote, too many times under this climate. So, in this particular case and in general, what do we say? Any parliamentary group formed by a vote of the Greek people should also operate in the House. We were willing to accept it if it hadn't been for this whole climate. Of course, it has been withdrawn and we say again that we do not agree with 3%. But as it is now, we say that those who set up a parliamentary group with elections and lose on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the House, because some change not camp, change party - because in the same camp they remain - can operate in the House. There is a lot of discussion about Parliament's courtesy. Indeed, people hate what they see, and as far as procedures are concerned, behaviours which are unacceptable. We always - and with our attitude now - accept the ideological controversy, hard ideological confrontation over programmes, in positions, not distortions or slanders which we almost accept from all the parties. I don't want to put everyone in the same bag. Such should be the controversy in Parliament and not be done in other terms, in terms of channels or even in terms of who will say the best line for writing on the Internet, because that is the system today, that is where it leads the whole world, apart from phenomena hanging on the handkerchiefs, people, etc. Don't ask most of you, because you're supporting this system. This all-powerfulness of anyone to be able to write whatever he wants, to be able to say whatever he wants. It is alleged that there is freedom, as long as it does not disagree and fight for the overthrow of the system. But the most important thing is that the defection, as they say, of Parliament comes from the anti-popular laws that it is voting on. What are you voting for - says - in there? That's how people ask. 'We do not vote', says 'We know you are not voting'. ‘What do you vote for?’. That's the basic thing. This barbaric policy experienced by the world and, of course, unspeakable behaviours, for which each party has the responsibility to apologise to the Greek people. That's why we're saying the difference is between us. Whether you like it or not the difference makes the JRC politically, first of all, because it is fighting for another system, not for this rotten system. These are rotten phenomena that exist everywhere, like in the media, such as corruption and all that happens every day. And so make the difference and strengthen us, join us, despite the big or smaller differences that he may have with us. Finally, I would like to say on the Rules of Procedure that we in general agree. We do not fall into the logic of 'because there is a political climate'. There are issues that are regulated, with which we have no objection, apart from Article 4 concerning the State's Budget Office in Parliament. Do you really know how this was imposed, you who are in favour of the country's independence? With a European directive. It is another lever of control within Parliament. In other words, Parliament's independence is above all. Legislative power is independent, but the European Union is kicking your ass. It tells you: 'Here you give me an account of what you're doing in the budget, not only the state but also the parliament.' Security key. And you agree on everything. So we do not agree with Article 4, which also refers to Articles 17 and 18, which are concerned with this, and we shall be saying'represents', as well as on the issue of the whole of'subjects', the financing of the parties, etc., which we have repeatedly put in place, and the infamous Greco, where all the indestructibles of the European Union and the Council of Europe have gathered, to carry out checks on corruption. Mercy! There to see corruption! We experienced them directly and personally and politically. Five years in the European Parliament, half of what I saw left. They're sworn underneath to be a mess in corruption. That is why we do not agree with that. Thank you, Mr President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. Mrs Collia-Charucha has the floor from the ANELs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to change my debate, but rather to place myself on the Rules of Procedure and the changes. But you will only allow me a small place for yesterday's sitting, in which I wrote on behalf of the President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos. It contained no questions. It was a letter which put thought on and expressed the opinion of the Independent Greeks on the establishment of a Parliamentary Group. You understand that our anxiety is that for too many reasons. It has been explained, and you know it, and you have mentioned it. I hope you don't find yourself in such situations. I hope that you will always be like this, that the big parties have had their MPs, but as much as the Constitution allows the Member after his election to have his vote, that is unfortunately not the case, at least since I have been in this Parliament - for nineteen years now - and I think it has never happened, particularly in the big parties of power. So any Member who does not vote as the President of the Party tells him is deleted. I'm also deleted, so I've got enough history on my back to have the right to speak and say what I told you. So yesterday's position with the letter was what I said to you, and any other approach from any other colleague, whether or not he heard it, is to gain political benefit, at least in his own judgement. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the changes to the Rules of Procedure of the House in order to upgrade Parliament's services and reorganise them. It is a living institution in Parliament. His services are working and operating perfectly. I must once again congratulate the officials who are serving this work of Members of Parliament and, more generally, of the functioning of the parliamentary culture, offering high-level services to all of us, while at the same time facilitating the difficult work carried out by Members of all the parties. I therefore believe that the staff of the House are well-trained, and indeed through the evaluation already carried out, there are ongoing seminars aimed at improving the performance of the officials and improving their use. The aim is also to improve the effectiveness and collective action of the services of the Parliament, and to ensure that they are continuously evaluated, as well as social control through investigations or electronic applications, through which citizens come into contact with the Parliament. As far as staff is concerned, so as not to mention and delay this House, I will be allowed to record what articles we do not agree with, which we will not vote on, Mr President. We are voting on Article 1. Articles 2 and 7, as corrected, are to be voted on. Article 3 clarifies the conditions for granting admission permits to media representatives, etc. and not to journalists, we vote 'yes'. In Articles 4 and 17, there is indeed a reflection and we shall vote 'no'. In Articles 5 and 18, we have the necessary amendments to the Rules of Procedure and to the Special Rules of the House, the Rules of Procedure of the Special Audit Office for Statements of Assets, so that it can be lifted in accordance with Law 4571/2018. We do not vote for that. In Article 6, we say 'yes'. In Rule 8, we do not think there is any reason to have a shipyard in the Greek Parliament and we do not vote for it. We are also not voting on Article 9. In Article 12 we say 'yes'. In Article 10, too, we say 'yes', with the labelling, however, that the social criteria, which I am sorry to say, but sometimes some of the employees, may be used to facilitate them at the expense of their service and of other employees, should be mentioned even more specifically. In Article 11, in which various issues are clarified, the integration of the staff of the Parliament into Law No.4354/2015, we say 'yes'. In Article 13, which allows for the possibility of exceptional cases, by decision of the President of the Parliament, at the request of the service, to extend the time limit for payment and reimbursement of cash orders, etc., we say 'yes'. Article 14, in which, by decision of the Secretary-General of Parliament, the payment method is laid down and the issue of credit cards, etc., we say 'yes'. In Rule 15, concerning Parliament's contracts which are applied in proportion to the provisions of the legislation on public procurement, we say 'yes'. In Rule 16, which restores the possibility of applying paragraph 2 of Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, we say 'yes'. In Article 19, too, we say 'yes'. In Article 20, which harmonizes terminology with the provisions of public accounting, we say 'yes'. In the parliamentary part where the first provision concerning the members of the Bureau, the Vice-Presidents and so on, we say 'yes'. In Article 22, which clarifies the arrangements for statutory auditing of the legal person and so on, we say 'yes'. Finally, Article 23, which supplements the provision of Rule 13, with the clarification of the 'elections of the Legal Support Department of the Parliament, should not be lifted automatically at the beginning of the new parliamentary term', we say 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good evening, too. I'll be pretty brief. I will start with a comment on the Prime Minister's letter. I was also present to the committee concerned, and I disagreed because I do not think the President of Parliament needs to accept any letter, how he will chair and what he will bring to the Rules of Procedure. This letter opened up the anti-population dance to negatively judge both the Prime Minister and his decision and the President of the Parliament. If the Prime Minister wanted to convey that he does not accept any threat, he could say that he does not accept any threats and that he does not induce the President of Parliament to bring anything to the committee concerned, and I am closing with that in terms of the letter from the Prime Minister. At the moment, six Members who, at the moment, I cannot understand why - unreasonablely, we - have given a white cheque to vote 'yes' to everything, without even seeing them, actually gives me a huge impression. But apparently they are ideally willing, and to take the roles of the compromising to this shadow theatre launched by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government for as long as this still lasts. Sadly, with these moves and the transcription, it gives our fellow citizens the right to be deceived even more of the Greek Parliament and of us MPs, to speak of relics of the "Carro government", to talk about gangs, to talk about absurdity, to have a party to Radio Arvyla, showing all the MPs and all that they have done. Instead of really dealing with the problems of Greek society, whether we will have a reduction in unemployment, whether our fellow citizens can keep their wages and pensions, whether we can get out on the market, whether their business is not going to close, Mr. President, we are dealing with each one, which for some reason remains in here and sits in his chair. I would agree with Mr Pafile - it is one of the few times that I agree with the views of the Communist Party of Greece - as regards the positions of Members. You come out and you're elected with a party. The vehicle well or badly is the party, how much more when you've been elected with a list and you're a nominated MP. Do you disagree with the party? You hand over your seat and, if you have the chow, you're taking a cross and you're interfering. Everything else is for the chair. The position of the Central Association is clear, and we are the only party we have not accepted in our ranks, even though we have been hit by the door. I'll go to the Vice-Presidents' piece, where I disagreed with the committee. The Vice-President in question is elected by the House. The people have given it the power for the parliamentary group. The people have voted to enter the Greek Parliament and to express themselves through their Presidents and representatives. To dismantle a parliamentary group because some want to move, for us it is too negative. The road to distances, betrayals, exchanges etc. However, that is the Rules of Procedure and we must follow them. I disagree that Mr Lykoudi will not remain Vice-President. Of course, I commend his position and we will also vote for this article, because that is the right thing to do. I will close with one reason for the officials in this House, which is the main reason why I went to Stepma. We really praise you and thank you for being here. You are offering the right parliamentary work for all of us with all your cooperation. And I say so from my position as Vice-President when I am in the Chair, as well as as as a Member of Parliament. Whether or not to vote on the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure has nothing to do with either personal will or with something against the staff of this House. It's purely political. In general terms, as I have said in committee, we are positive. In some cases we will find ourselves in a positive position, in some negative ones, and in others we will vote 'at present'. Nevertheless, once again, I would like to thank you for being close to us. It really wouldn't work without you. Without us MPs it would probably work. Without you not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u32	And now we're on the list of speakers. Mr. Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary system of governance is based on a long historical tradition that has formed institutions, principles and rules. Article 65 of the Constitution entrusts the House itself with its own Rules of Procedure to regulate its freedom and democratic functioning in the context of the institutional formation and traditions of the parliamentary system of governance. The House historically started as a Parliament of MPs, and gradually evolved into all Western political systems, representative and parliamentary, in a Parliament of the parties. In order to achieve this, fundamental principles, such as the parliamentary authority, the government's dependence on Parliament's confidence and the principle of declared, which binds the Head of State to the choice of Prime Minister, who appoints and constitutes the visibility of the parliamentary authority in the appointment phase, were introduced to the Constitutional Constitutions. But in order for the principle of declared and the presumption of the majority of the government to function, there must be mixed political parties. That is why the Rules of Procedure, applying the Constitution, stipulate that all committees of Parliament are formed in proportion to the political parties. The MEP, as a representative of the people and the nation, certainly has a free mandate, the right of conscious opinion and vote, but exercises this right as a member of a parliamentary group - a group - which cannot be a divided personality, cannot be a case of magical image, which changes its role and institutional function within the House or can play its part as an independent person, also counted as such, as independent in the formation of the House and the parliamentary groups. These simply guaranteed regimens that protect the validity of the parliamentary system of government, had not thought and dared to harm them at their core in recent years, during the long period of postmopulation since 1974. Besides, the 1975 Constitution incorporates very strong historical memories from the experience of 1965, but also from the experience of older periods such as the 1950s, so as not to go any older. The history of institutions and regulations is very deep. Unfortunately, in recent days under the pretext that the government must maintain power as something more than a minority government, as a majority government that has received the confidence of the House, but also has to have a parliamentary group of the absolute majority, while it does not have a systematic and fundamental institutional and historical effort to alter all the fundamental institutions and principles of the parliamentary system of governance, namely parliamentary democracy, democracy. For, of course, the government has taken a vote of confidence, from Members belonging to other parties or independent, but the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group does not have an absolute majority, does not have a presumption, it does not constitute a majority of Parliament's committees. To this end, a series of heavy offenses of the constitution appear. First of all, the Prime Minister intervenes in his infamous letter, and admittedly professes that he is politically guiding the revision of the Rules of Procedure, which is the sole responsibility of the President of Parliament and the Parliament without the government's participation. The Government shall not be represented in that procedure. It offends the President of Parliament, in order to proclaim Mr Tsipras that he is not blackmailed by his partner, Mr Kammenos, while it is obvious that the extortion and transmissions of messages have one and the other. And that's the least. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the letters of the six Members sent yesterday, we now have a crooked parliamentarian. We have MPs, who are typically part of the ANEL Parliamentary Group, for there to be as a parliamentary group, but who are counted on the vote as Members of the SYRIZA, so that the principle of a declarant and the presumption of a majority is respected. We have three ministers, who appear as Independent, as non-members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, in the lobby to enter the ends of the SYRIZA Curtain, who now say: "We are parliamentary independents pending, but of course you will count on us as SYRIZA". It's SYRIZA now Ms. Papakosta, Mr. Kokalis and Mrs. Koudoura. And we also have Mr Dannelly, of course, who has this peculiar hybrid regime, from which I imagine you can deliver it quickly, making him a SYRIZA member. I think he'll be very satisfied with that. You know that, you must confirm this, by means of today's Rule 21 of the proposal by the President of this House, but without you being aware of the great contradiction that arises between this provision and what is happening at the same time. What is this parliamentaryism that is being created? It is a new type of parliamentaryism, invertebrate parliamentaryism, the parliamentarianism of the elastic consciences, which are going to become the cause of the elasticity of the institutions, namely the circumvention of the Constitution and, of course, the alteration of the fundamental elements of the civil society, which are protected from the rule of law. The ANELs have interfered with the situation of the folding party. They have four Members, sometimes six, sometimes three, calculated in accordance with Rule 15 of the Rules of Procedure. So, they don't know how many people they are and who they are and what they are. These are the consequences of these extortion. But that is not our concern. We are concerned about the purity of the operation of the political system. Take these Members and make the members of the SYRIZA, have a clear solution, but do not benefit from the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. Because what you are doing, it may give a prolongation of weeks or months to the government to resent power, but it deeply hurts the political system, political culture and democracy itself. I have said several times that the last six months of this government's mandate will be more damaging and harmful to the country than in the first half of 2015. And in the economy we will see this gradually, despite the impressions that some people are trying to create, but of course also in the institutions and in the Republic. There is an obligation for every democratic citizen to warn you and oppose what you are doing. You may be pleased that you are inventive, that you have a Prime Minister who is engaged in parliamentary tactics. What you are doing, however, is not a trick, it is an insult to democracy and to parliamentaryism!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Aristides Baltas from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, I would like, as a parliamentary representative, to take the floor on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u36	I too, Mr President, have asked to speak after Mr Baltas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Paraskevi, you will take the floor after Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u39	Here, Mr Balta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA is trying, throughout this parliamentary term, not to be part of a debate of aggressive designations, arrogances, counting large dissidents of the kind 'prosecutors' and so on, to try to be permanently on the basis of arguments, both in order to say his own positions and in order to counter the views of others. I must admit that it is not easy and we do not always succeed in it. Because what comes spontaneously - so as to say briefly, I will not go into such accusations, of course - is the phrase 'Look who's talking' permanently. And if you look at who's talking, you're forced sometimes, if you don't, to take it out. I shall try to stay at that level, even though it may be a little tempting and respond systematically to what has been said here today and what is being said these days. First of all, Mr Tragakis wondered why we are many. Indeed, we are many of SYRIZA today from what I see, and they are few of the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u41	You have come to have the number seventy-five so that the quorum can be found.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u42	We are many because we have come here to defend the Constitution, the reasonable amount of policy and to raise issues which, as usual, are slandered from the standpoint of anti-population. I'm starting with the issue at issue. At some point the Prime Minister, without having a constitutional obligation - or else - asked for a vote of confidence. I repeat, without having to. That is precisely because he himself understood - like all of us, and you and us - that the issue of the Prespecies was raised in a major problem, for reasons relating to the reversal made by the Opposition in relation to its traditional positions. This crisis therefore had to be addressed at its root, by means of a vote of confidence. Indeed, it has been done so, without any obligation at all - I repeat - and the Prime Minister won the majority. The government, in other words, acquired a hundred and fifty votes, which according to the Constitution are needed to have a majority in Parliament. The vote of confidence - you know - when it comes to such dramatic terms and by its nature, it is not an instant crime, as for some was the dictatorship. It is a permanent post until it has been reversed by the Member's decision. It is a permanent post, until a term of office is completed or until the Member himself says, for his own reasons, that he no longer wants to give such a type of vote of confidence to the government. The vote of confidence, therefore, is linked to something that you also forget and now, recently, Mr Venizelos, with constitutional formalism tends to forget completely. This House came up - you know it much better than we might - after a deep crisis of Greek society, which had to do with the memorials, lending and the rest. On the basis of this crisis, the two parties of bipartism collapsed in the first phase. The PASOK, in whatever form, continues the curse and if the New Democracy continues the same policy - Mr Denktia said so very well the other day - will have the same fate. This is a crisis. This crisis means people are moving, changing positions, changing opinions. We have seen in previous compositions how dramatic changes have taken place within Parliament since such changes. But what does it mean? This crisis indirectly invokes a very basic principle of the Constitution, which Mr Venizelos mentioned momentarily, but withdrew immediately after his formalism. On the basis of the MEP's position within Parliament, the Member's conscience is. The honourable Member's conscience comes to all these debates, because it is linked by many in a sense of transaction under the table, namely, "How much did you get?", "What exchange did you gain? This deduces the notion of consciousness, not only at MP level, but also at court level. Because there too, the final - let us say this - is an argument that the judge has to judge, after all, is his conscience. So don’t make conscience that way. And don't make the conscience of the Members who came to you that way. And if you want to get a little into the 'look who's talking', you have rushed as a new Republic to the Members who came to you, to give them - let's say - the price of their accession, their allocation to the ballots so that they don't fight what is going to happen to the elections. ‘Whenever they do, obviously in October. From there on - and I shall end - there has been a lot of talk about the letter Tsipras to Voutsi. Mr. Pallis expressed it in the way of glaucoma. Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Voutsis are members of the same party. They're both involved in Politics. SYRIZA Secretariat. In this sense, it would be extremely simple, what was done publicly, that Mr Voutsis, after a debate with the Prime Minister and President of the party, should have come and said here what he thought or agreed. Why did the Prime Minister write the letter? He wrote the letter to show the hypocrisy of the arguments against the moves of the last few days. The Prime Minister, as leader of a party now and not as Prime Minister, tells Mr Voutsi, "The party, whose party I have the honour of leading, does not think that, in the way that has been discussed, we can move to a change of Rules of Procedure". So, in this sense, it sets before the Greek people and Parliament precisely the political view of their party, about how they can proceed from there and beyond. The whole 'drug' that has happened is the 'drug' because it happened: some Members thought that in this sense I said before, namely that there is a permanent provision of confidence, some groups are losing their Members, while these groups have all the other privileges, which give them, the Constitution and the laws, for their creation: money from the public fund in relation to the maintenance of their party and so on. And, because it is unprecedented - unprecedented as a result of the crisis - that there should be parliamentary groups, which exist in accordance with elections and are non-existent under the Rules of Procedure, the proposal was there, and we can consensually resolve this problem, so that Members, who happen to be in charge of such groups, do not lose their right to speak. And move forward. It became such a heinous, not only from the Skillful Opposition, that its role is to climb rampant in such cases, but also from the parliamentary groups themselves that would benefit in this way. In this sense, does the Prime Minister say? "Since there is no kind of consensus, it is not our responsibility to impose our own will on the other parliamentary groups, so, Mr President of Parliament, please leave it." This open procedure, before the Greek people, of imprinting the crisis and the conclusions of the House's Rules of Procedure - because the Rules of Procedure of Parliament again against the Venizelos formalisation did not provide for this type of crisis - was not understood and we arrived here. So I come back and say: Mr Tragakis, we are many, because we want to say these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u43	You don't have a quorum.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too. Mr Igoumenides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to place myself on the basis of what I have heard from the parties' rapporteurs, who have been ahead of us. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we are at a time when important events affect, shaken, the political system, they affect political developments. The economic failure of the previous policies and the economic bankruptcy of the country, the imposition of memoranda policies led to the collapse of bipartism, as we had known in post-political terms, as a paper tower. The struggles themselves against the Memorandums have shown at the forefront of the slogans the demands for dignity, solidarity and justice. These struggles - and not some enlightened leaders, who came from outside to create new parties - have highlighted the Left in positions of government responsibility. I therefore believe, Mr President, that we are living up to shocking events which lead to traditional divisions being eradicated, to a collapse in traditional political weightings. New weightings, new division lines slowly shaped and distinguished conservative neoliberal policy from the left perspective for the place. So on these unprecedented roads, which open up, we can detect, grind the deepest social cause of the political liquidity we are living in, the mobility policy that we are experiencing. I would like to mention two - three 'but' here. Firstly, this liquidity rests on the whole of the parties, whether it refers to the mobility and liquidity of the parliamentary groups or refers to the disarmament of the parliamentary groups, with the world that has so far been identified and followed by these parties. Secondly, our people, from their historical experience, from the country's political history, despises and rejects political mobility, which is the result of a transaction. In my opinion, our people, ladies and gentlemen, hates the alteration of the correlation of powers, as they have chosen it in their vote, when it comes to trade. Thirdly, when the movements relate to movements to PASOK and New Democracy, they are accepted as a result of a mature thinking. I refer to the headlines of all the newspapers, when they announced various movements to PASOK and New Democracy, which we have lived through. When any political move to SYRIZA moves, it is treated with total deception. 'Court government', we heard it. 'Trade effect', we heard. "Is the Prime Minister inferior to or above the President of the Parliament?". Everyone has an opinion. The Prime Minister isn't entitled to have? But when he talks, he is "droping the soup" and we hear he is a prisoner of every Kammenos. We have even heard the dangerous views of institutional diversions, of ballasts, of nickels, of willfulness. Mr Venizelos spoke of a parliamentary laughter before. Some of the curtains of SYRIZA are found in the prechamber. In this attack - and I would like you to point out, ladies and gentlemen - they synchronise their pace with the conservative faction, the PASOK Parliamentary Group, in my view, unlike the world, which, until yesterday, was following them. All the forces that seek SYRIZA's strategic defeat - Mr. Venizelos, for example, wants to work with the 2% defeated SYRIZA - want to get it over with, not just with SYRIZA, but with the ideas of the Left. Ladies and gentlemen, why do they behave with such hatred with such disgrace? Because, in my opinion, they are 'loosing the soup' to appear in the current circumstances - yes - to the present circumstances! - The Left may win. It "losers the soup" to appear, even in peak moves, that there are people who think and look and follow the course to the left. I think that this black forehead, our people are aware of it. He has dealt with it many times and recently with his vote, and I believe he will now deal with it. Greece and the objectives of Greece, the development of work, the deepening of the social state, the prose, democracy, the objective of such a Greek that is needed by the poor and the weak, Greece that gives youth, workers, people of culture and letters, can and will inspire all those who benefit from this course form the basis for wider blocs. Those of the political forces - particularly from the centre-left area - undermine this course, in my opinion, are putting the best mortgage on their political destruction and dismantling. The target for this Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u46	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u47	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...shows to a catalyst for meeting wider powers and is a one-way path for the political forces, who want to express this course of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and two educational sessions since the 32nd General High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Kefaloyannis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard a colleague from SYRIZA be very apologetic to the actions of the last few days. Of course, he didn't come to the point to apologize. I myself will also apologise for my resignation from the Greek people for what it has seen in the last few days for the benefit of Parliament. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In particular, I am referring to the procedures we have seen in the previous period, such as, for example, Mr Kammenos, that an entire legislative process, using the example of the lawnmower, should benefit. Let me also remind Mr Papachristopoulos, who went to give his resignation to Mr Voutsi and Mr Voutsis, the President of Parliament asked him to remain for a few days in order to vote on the Protocol of Integration of Skopje in NATO. We saw the letter from Mr. Prime Minister yesterday to Mr. Voutsi, President of the Parliament, where, in an imperative style, he said to him "do not go through the changes", announced by the Government representative Mr.Janakopoulos - do not forget this - a few days ago. And, of course, we have now reached the point yesterday that we have six fellow Members - a card of Members - who, on the one hand, support the government and, on the other hand, remain in their parliamentary groups. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, creates a picture of the imperfection of Parliament. It is a danger to democracy that other colleagues have pointed out and it is, I think, a responsibility for all of us to be able to convey the right messages through this Chamber. Beyond the party controversy, in addition to the political controversy, which we may have, what we must emit and indeed very loud to society, it is that at least we can preserve some basic principles, some basic institutions and, above all, democracy itself. Because, if we do not succeed, the only ones who, in fact, are favoured by such a process, are the extremes, are the enemies of parliamentism, and you know very well who they are. That is why we must all get rid of the circumstances. And I say, unfortunately, we have reached this point in the last few days and we have been talking - let me say the term - of a parliamentary shame. We have seen a statement by six Members, who have no precedent for any parliamentarians in any of the world. I am not, of course, talking about Greece, because we have never had - at least as far as I monitor the political events in our country - such a procedure, such a statement, that is, an unconditional concession to their vote in order to support a government. And, of course, there are also two Members - hybrids - let me have the term - in which they remain in the groups, but they nevertheless give their vote in advance, unconditionally, in white to the Government. But the parliamentary representative or the rapporteur will therefore vote - as the case may be - and in fact the votes of those Members will be counted. Of course, you know very well that yesterday's proxy is also constitutionally irresponsible. Why, instead of having the courage to say at least that we are joining a parliamentary group, for example in SYRIZA, eventually some have chosen at the moment to have a two-dimensional one. To remain in their parliamentary group at the same time, but also to give their vote to the majority vote. We are talking about the irresponsible constitutionality of this proxy, because in fact the free will of the MPs stemming from the Constitution is being enjoyed. And, of course, we are not talking about a case of party discipline. It is not in any democratic country that a Member of Parliament in white should give his vote here - I would also say his conscience, as I said before - and it is something that all of us should be concerned about. Even within the parliamentary groups there are disagreements. We have often seen Members in this Chamber vote against what their party says. But this thing being given in white vote is something that is unprecedented. Unfortunately, this is all for one single reason. Unfortunately, it seems that the Prime Minister is indeed being politically blackmailed by Mr Kammenos, because this is how the Group of Independent Greeks is to remain as well, on the basis of the current Rules of Procedure of the House which we are debating today, and of course there is also a parliamentary majority in order to pass the bills. I would remind you of what I said at the beginning of my speech that a few days ago Mr Janakopoulos, the Government Representative, was the same one who announced that the Rules of Procedure would change. He also publicly urged that the procedures should be carried out so that the parliamentary groups could not be dissolved. Mr. Tsipras, the Prime Minister of the country, changed his mind, just to pass a picture to the Greek people that he is not blackmailed by Mr. Kammenos. It is obvious, however, that this theater of irrationality, which we are all watching within this Chamber, is very well monitored by the Greek people and I think it will judge us all. We are, of course, ending up with an institutional monstrous system. The monstrosity is what I described previously in the letters of the six Members of Parliament. They preferred, in other words, to relax the parliamentary procedure, rather than have the political courage to say that they were joining a parliamentary group and at the same time to satisfy the former government partner, Mr Kammenos, so as not to lose his privileges as Head of Parliament's Party. Unfortunately, Mr Tsipras, in yesterday's letter, unreasonably states the President of Parliament, a serious man, who, instead of reacting under his institutional role, was, in fact, forced to tolerate such a procedure, I mean such a letter, instead of having one, in his reply, which I think would best preserve Parliament's authority. In fact, as I said before, the Government representative had also announced the launching of a dialogue between the political parties in order to change the Rules of Procedure. And all this, of course, ignoring one thing, that it is the House that controls the government rather than the backwards. Any letter of state to the House to urge specific procedures is parliamentaryly unacceptable. It could, of course, be, as the party leader to propose some things, as he has every right and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. But as a member of the executive, it is something that we all need to be concerned about. We are living in a parliamentary representative city in which the House, I repeat, controls the government and not the backwards. We have, however, seen that this has been reversed in the past few days and it is something that hurts civilisation, democracy itself. In conclusion, with these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, I really would ask you once again to consider that such actions, apart from party and political conflicts, are actually the ones that breed the monster of all those forces that reverse parliamentarianism and democracy. So we must in these attitudes, in these practices, in these acts and omissions, at least the House must be united. Instead, we unfortunately see that such procedures are being tolerated, which in the end are injuring democracy and parliamentaryism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u50	Thank you Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Mr. Andreas Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, it is curiosity for the person who does not know, but for the person who has lived in this House this four-year term, to discuss changes in the Rules of Procedure in order to show our parliamentary culture for the article, for the article on the subject, while at the same time the absolute humiliation of this House is being carried out. A parliamentary party, Potami, was dissolved weeks ago as a result of political processes. The consequences of its dissolution, parliamentary, were instant. I have been informed that the Bureau of Parliament has correctly applied the Rules of Procedure in all respects and that the Group of the European People's Party has been dismantled within the meaning of Rule 15. The problem then appeared in the Independent Greeks, Mr. Kammenos, and appeared in a completely transparent and visible way through the naked eye, because it had already existed in the covert form of comedy. Members of Parliament give him confidence in the government, they remain in a party which removes its confidence from the government. This has led to concerns about how the numbers in the parliamentary committees will be adjusted. How can the Rules of Procedure provide for these? These pragmatisms, how can a Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, which are aimed at parliamentary bodies operating with classical coordinates, provide for them? What majority in this House would have anticipated this institutional mess and this political decline and decline? None. Thus, there were no forecasts, interpretations were given. But while there is a dissolution of the ANEL Parliamentary Group and there is one reflection, the President of the Parliament will apply the Rules of Procedure and to the ANELs, after colleagues have resigned, political and personal blackmail is suddenly beginning. There all of a sudden, the government spokesman also finds then that his party, SYRIZA, is against the dissolution of parliamentary groups formed because their parties were voted on by the people and came to the House with more than ten MPs. The government finds this out and announces it after the River Parliamentary Group has been dissolved. There extortion is now taking place and picking up place in a strange way for us not operating in the field of extortion, but very familiar with the blackmailers, that while the government is retreating, the man who is pressing, is hitting on emissions again. And that is where the other way out is discovered, to interpret the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, which would have happened if the President of Parliament, the Bureau, the majority of them, had approached the Rules of Procedure from the outset with parliamentary virtue. Let's see what 15 says, how has it been applied for so many years? Are there any possibilities of interpretation? That is not the case. The dialogue was between conflicters, so it was not dialogue, it was a battle. And as this continues, the interpretation is transferred as an obligation to the Scientific Council of Parliament and we will see what will happen. That was the evolution until yesterday, when things became even worse when the "exodus" of political splitting personalities is discovered. Some colleagues, six of them, in a statement to the Bureau of Parliament - I heard Mr Kourakis read it - are Members who have to count to the hundreds of forty-five of the SYRIZA so that they have a hundred and fifty-one. At the same time, two of those belonging to ANELs retain the status of member of the ANLL Parliamentary Group. Article 15(3). Parliament's Rules of Procedure prohibit these smuggling, its indirect violations, and define the logic - which, if not defined, would be that every Member of Parliament belongs to a parliamentary group. Expression verbis. It's a series! I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Article 15 is a series and is not being circumvented by the method of 'I remain in a group which does not give a vote of confidence, but also by the majority of Parliament', which provides confidence. This is practically powerless, impotent. And parliamentary and political is completely decayed, completely decaying! As the Greek society discusses this, it became a key issue in political dialogue, and I do not remember it again. Because the vote on the 1980s was another debate. It was a debate that had to do with the Constitution, and it had nothing to do with the Revision of the Constitution. I do not remember the Rules of Procedure dealing with Greek society in such a way that it is concerned with why you are acting in the most anti-institutional way of the majority, in the most parliamentary way degressive. And Mr Papatheodorou rightly said, the fact that you have come to this debate today, states your political concern. You may have come to support your President, but what goes outside the Chamber is not yours, internal topic, it is your political concern. You came to show that you have everything well with yourself and Mr Balta's speech was very characteristic. My colleague has acted as if he did not understand, but he understands. And the experience also has age. I say, then, that in this environment, the misfortune, that we now discuss the same article of the Rules of Procedure that needs to be changed, part II, etc., I think it is inconsistent with the course of political things. It is a parliamentary work to be done, I have no objection, but it is not a parliamentary work that is currently on the Greek people and it cannot provide an alibi that in this Chamber something serious is happening these days. In this Chamber, what is happening is unprecedented, tragic, it is parliamentary signs of decline. In conclusion, I would like to make two references to these other articles, two of which - Article 16 and 19 - will be bought by Mr Kegeroglu, the Secretary of our parliamentary group in a moment. However, in one, I will be in a position to make a similar position with today's position in a recent Conference of Presidents. Listen. Under Article 21 of the amendments, the member of the Bureau is dependent on the parliamentary group from which he comes is absolute. This is a mistake and it is a very serious mistake because, although the Rules of Procedure stipulate - and rightly so - that the Members of the Bureau of Parliament should be provided for in their powers, but the automatic appointment of the Bureau is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure and is not done. The group proposed by the alpha or beta Parliamentary Group, which appears in the office of the Vice-President and the President, is obviously elected by vote. Therefore, the dissolution of a parliamentary group does not automatically lead to a resignation of the Vice-President - not the President, because the majority is always a majority - but the House, if it so appreciates, must make a motion of censure against him to leave unless he does not want to remain for reasons of equilibrium and resigns. What does Article 21 of this is wrong. It is the full partyisation of the function of the European Parliament. Because, in other words, you have been proposed by a party and you are elected, the vote in this House is left to confirm the need to leave the post of Vice-President of the House. It's a barbaric article 21. We don't agree. I do not believe that other colleagues have exceeded it or even agreed, as I have heard before. Article 21 must be withdrawn. Each one or every one elected by a decision of this House ceases to hold the office for which it was elected by vote, if necessary, and this House wishes to do so, not because the Rules of Procedure align the parliamentary groups with those of Parliament for which a vote has been taken. You should see this at least at the last minute and withdraw it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA Mr. Nicos Paradropoulos has the floor. Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. I won't waste my time. I would like to begin by referring to a phenomenon which we all know and we call it self-esteemed prophecy. The phenomenon is well known, the term is well known. In both English and English the same term is used. What does the phenomenon mean? We are starting at a time which may be smooth, where there is some quiet parliamentary or within another institution suddenly speaking about division, about a great division and not only that, but we are showing a number of phenomena of parliamentary function and we are saying 'hard intervention'. This leads us to other regimes. Shame on you. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the President of the New Democracy, said it three times: "Great, shame, shame". 'Fulfilment'. How many times have we heard? ‘Derogation’, ‘derogation’. I wrote it down. He said a few, too, Mr. Igoumenides. I have noted today what has been said: 'perjad', 'policy','retails', 'quarry', 'roots', 'invertebrates', 'loss', 'loss in a few words'. This terminology really is capable of bringing the House to fruition, because if anyone listens to the work of the House in fragmentation and has not seen what the whole climate of dialogue is, which is here, and is staying in what he hears about gloriousness, he begins and believes that Parliament's space is an area of bliss. And when he believes it, he is being driven - you understand where - politically right - to the deniers of democracy. This is the self - astonishing prophecy. Constantly saying that Parliament has been degraded, we are trying to do so - and we are driving outside the limits of democracy. Of course, apart from the institutional issue, I should like to say that there must also be an individual, if we consider the faces of our fellow Members, in which the stigma of evangelism falls constantly and every day. Since I have had this on another occasion, on another occasion and on other occasions this point and this bowling, I am thinking very much of the current Members who are subject to it because of a policy which, in the context of parliamentarianism, is quite legitimate and not just within the six Members of Parliament we are talking about today, but also of the previous ones, since they have moved to SYRIZA, such as Mrs Megalo-Economist. How can they handle it? Truly, it's not easy - you know - all day listening to sins all over the world and imperfections directed to your face. And you're going to tell me: is that what happened? Oh, no, of course not! One spoke of courtesy when Mr. Fotillas, Mrs. Marcos, Mr. Barriots, Mr. Karras - an excellent lawmaker! - Mr. Theocharis? Did anyone talk about charming, craving, invertebrates? Nobody! Silence, absolute silence! Just don't let anyone move to SYRIZA! Then we will be taking up all the adjectives we know, which have nothing to do with either the institutions or the logic. I would say that by attempting to round things up, things are mostly in the area of passions and emotions rather than in the area of logic the surnames used. And what are the reasons for reaching this terminology? That terminology before these latest developments sounded in our country in other places? Can I remind you? In the "yellow" sports press. There every defeat, humiliation. Every defeat, humiliation, and humiliation. This terminology has been introduced, not, of course, by all the opposing Members, because there are colleagues who maintain their decency, whatever the subject, whatever the austerity of the disagreement. And I speak in front of Mr Tragakis, whom I fully respect - he knows that - and he has never applied to such expressions in his arguments. But why have all this been said at this particular juncture? For two main reasons: One is that we are talking about raw intervention in Parliament's independence and therefore about a breach of the principle of separation of powers because of the Prime Minister's letter, and the second is the letter from the six Members, who said that in votes which are not nominal they want to be expressed by means of the vote of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Let's see both of them: Discrimination of powers. When is the distinction of powers introduced into institutional history? In the 19th century it was introduced, when powers previously were compact, to express the monarchy. And slowly some functions, like the court, began to get out of the compact block and to be distinguished. And in these cases the distinction of certain functions by the monarch's authority meant independence and a guarantee that in some cases the popular sovereignty can find a support and not just the exercise of a monarchal authority. Is that what's happening today? Apparently not. The distinction of powers has been established, it does not correspond to different classes of each function, it has no social background. This is a technical distinction of powers, which facilitates the functionality of democracy, facilitates the functioning of justice as well. But our democracy does not provide for a vertical distinction of powers so that, whenever there is intervention, the hair rises. Because, of course, our Constitution provides for cases of cross-border powers. Institutional cases of cross-checking of powers have even with judicial function, not only with the other two, how much more with the implementation and with the legislative function, where, as we know, the most classic example is the fact of the legislative initiative that the executive has in view of discussing the adoption of the new laws. So when the Constitution itself provides for the cross-checking of powers - and it well provides for them, because all the functions come from the people and the fact that they have a uniform social base just requires their coordination, harmonisation, contact and mutual control of powers - allows us to intervene, is the Prime Minister's letter, which has not even intervened? Because, of course, the letter refers to a communication that has led to reflection and has enough for the Prime Minister to ask the President of Parliament and ask him for a procedure which will lead to a detachment of the political climate and this stigmatisation of extortion, etc., all of this is not an intervention. In the judgement of the President of Parliament, the Prime Minister is also calling for the judgement of the President of the Parliament. It is not even an intervention at a time when interventions in certain cases are provided for. In any case, we are dealing here with an issue where the parliamentary procedure and developments in the Rules of Procedure have a direct or indirect reflection on the government. Shouldn't the Prime Minister have an opinion? Do not express his opinion to the President of Parliament, who handles the relevant procedure? Where's the abnormality in all this? All this, of course, is normal, as is normal six Members who so far may have voted on another party or who belonged to another party, such as ANELs, but who voted the same with SYRIZA, so today they say they want to vote the same thing as SYRIZA, if we are not dealing with a major issue which will lead to a roll-call vote, so everyone has their own vote individually. On other issues, in order not to have the difficulty of having a roll-call vote - which is technically difficult, in any case, and it is a delay in Parliament's work - and if they have now decided to support, in addition to exceptions, the functioning of the government party in this House, they agree to be expressed through the vote of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. After all, this vote is entirely consistent with the fact that the Members concerned have given their confidence. Since they have given this government their confidence and trust it, they of course also trust Parliament's vote if there is no specific issue on which they should be safeguarded or for which they wish to separate their position. All this is entirely consistent with the parliamentary history of the Members concerned, who have also in the past voted in the same direction as SYRIZA's vote and, of course, with their vote on confidence, expressed the same view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u54	Thank you for the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr. Paradise. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 32nd General High School of Thessaloniki (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To tell the students and students that they are attending a sitting of Parliament which discusses the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the House, on the basis of which the committees and other items of the House are held. We are now in the process of discussion. There are four other speakers left, and then we will proceed to the vote on the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, as I said before. The speaker of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u55	Mr. President, have we again ruined the show?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u56	You're next, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u57	I was before, and then I went after, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u58	Here, Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, and in particular Mr Paradoxopoulos, who have just arrived at the Step, I wonder how you can easily accept that, in advance, the Member's vote on the future constitutes normal parliamentary behaviour. I wonder how you accept this with such ease! I wonder what similarities you find in this parliamentary ataxia, the absolute deviation from any parliamentary ethics, at least the one that the Greek Parliament has experienced since post-Civilisation. So what similarity do you find in cases, for example, Mr Foyla or Mr Barriots or Mr Theochras, who were first independent of the parliamentary groups to which they belonged and after a sufficient period of time they said that they were joining another parliamentary group? A responsible statement, however, did not sign up for the future, for what they will be invited to vote on in the future, by saying now that they will vote on it! What is the similarity between these two cases? [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Two weeks ago, ladies and gentlemen, you still do not understand, although you understand very well, but you are protesting - I am sure you understand very well - we began to see all these strange things and do not respond, because, you know, the basic manifestation of pragmatic behaviour is when you rejoice, but you swallow the camel, when you come to improve Parliament's Rules of Procedure on minor issues, at the same time reviewing the Constitution, but you accept the responsible statements made by Members for the future statement of intent to vote. That's to refine the deaf on the one hand and swallow the camel on the other. What Rules of Parliament now! Two weeks ago, then, the system of alternating government majorities was born, one for the vote of confidence and another for the vote in favour of the Ambassadors' Agreement. Another composition in one majority, another in the other. You don't call it "normality"! Last week we had the famous case of carbonate. We're still laughing at each other here. Look out, it wasn't an accident. It was a time to move from one voting system to the normal procedure, the right procedure for years to another, when it was found that the government majority did not exist because it has become a government minority and some way had to be invented to go to a roll-call so that the bill could go through with this trick. Then we had the case of the imminent resignation of a Member who was announced, announced, extended, reinstated, re-issued, extended again, extended again due to mechanical damage and finally withdrawn from the table. What does that have to do with parliamentary regularity? What does that have to do with anything? Do you think that only this Member of Parliament enjoys? He's probably humiliated! Anyone who has nothing to do with society outside I imagine that it can assume that the dignity, the standing and reputation of this Member is intact. But whoever knows what people are saying outside, I'm sure he understands something else. However, it is not just the Member concerned who enjoys it. We all thrive as a whole and as a system. And that's the big damage. This is the great wound of parliamentaryism. That's the spreading. And this, if you want, is the justification for many out there to feel that this system is so degraded that it is not so bad to go to extreme political behaviour and to legitimise with this courtesy of Parliament the real extremes and right-wing, if you like, political behaviour and the Golden Dawn that is against parliamentaryism, even though it is currently using its opinions to express the privileges that this Parliamentary system gives. And now, in order not to get too far and to close it, we have the new situation of the six Members with the statement of intent to vote in advance. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the absolute collapse of every constitutional order. We knew football policy. We met her a while ago. We had transcriptions, we had borrowings, we had promises. We are now experiencing politics in parliamentary customs on casino terms. We have the Member of Parliament who comes out, resurrects as an ace in the sleeve, whenever necessary, by supporting - I suppose - the government majority in this Parliament - I imagine - or rather in the vote on bills - I imagine not by a certain amount of opposition from the Step, but only at the time of the vote - and once in support of opposition. At the same time, a government majority and a opposition minority in here! And all of you think that's normal and normal. And we are now discussing the revision of the 'h', 'h', 'h' article of the Rules of Procedure of the House, so that we can get out of here happy that we have done our job so that Mr Papachristopoulos can come to us tomorrow - since most of them have heard about him - I imagine - at the time of the vote on the bill to take up the responsible statement and read it to us here and everything is normal, to leave and go to our jobs. Well, listen. It is clear that this is not only an abnormal situation, but it is also within the limits of the parliamentary anomaly, not to say that it has exceeded those limits. We believe that there is one way to heal, and that is the way to appeal to the elections. This absolute paranoia, parliamentary surrealism, is cured only by recourse to the people's mandate, so that a new cleared parliamentary majority, respectively a new cleared parliamentary minority, the government can govern and rely on the majority in Parliament and the opposition to oppose and control the government in the House, as our parliamentary ethics and constitutional order have been demanding for decades. All the others are completely inappropriate, unacceptable and degrade each and every one of us and the institution of Parliament as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u60	Following Mr Panagiotopoulos, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, Member of the Democratic Association, has the floor for five minutes. From your position, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Today would be an opportunity indeed to have a serious debate on all issues. I don't see how serious positions have been heard. However, we have also seen the anguish of some or their expression being disturbed by the description of misery, degrading acts, diversions, but are not disturbed by their own misery and mischiefs. And that's hypocrisy. It's self-determination, but it's not respectful. And if we hadn't spoken at all today and said any of these expressions Mr. Paradoxopoulos said, the people outside don't say them? Therefore, we had to be politically and with full respect for the existing positions and say our views on all matters and on the Rules of Procedure. Mr Baltas said, to justify the Prime Minister's letter, for which I think we have spent a lot of time - if Mr Baltas had spoken more ahead, he would have solved the issues - that it is an internal document that came out in public. That's what Mr Baltas told us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u62	He didn't say that. Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u63	That's exactly what he said. Obviously, this is not the first time you have heard, but you understand, colleagues of SYRIZA, and that explains what you are voting on. I was not so disturbed by the Prime Minister's letter - in that sense. But I was disturbed that a few weeks ago Mr Kammenos made a scourge in the face of the President of the Parliament, and indeed a member of his family, and no minister or Prime Minister said a word! Because then you needed the votes of Kammenos! That's why, gentlemen! That bothered me more than what she did yesterday. Because what he did yesterday or rather today confirms previous interventions. It was just public. I'm closing this part. Look, on the subject of the Rules of Procedure, rather than parliamentary procedures, what has a greater problem, in my opinion, are the procedures for parliamentary control. The ministers have ceased to come to a significant percentage, to a very large extent, for Parliamentary Control and to answer questions. I will tell you that for 2018 the number was one thousand, three hundred and fifty, in four hundred, and even four hundred if you see it, there are specific ministers who have a very large number. If they did not respect ethics, then the 29% rate would be much lower. And I did not see any provision coming for the strengthening of parliamentary control in the amendment to the Rules of Procedure. I have suggested many times, I have protested, and I think that at some point we must take it seriously, because if it is not a majority, today's or at any time, this issue, then as a opposition, it is a matter of course. And this is where you have a great responsibility, gentlemen of today's majority. With all these diversions taking place, open the bucket, give the passport, give permission to the next majority, if it does not work with principles, if there are no barriers, if there is no one to put a hamper on them, to pass on more diversions and nothing can be said. That's the biggest damage. Watch it. Every majority must leave a reserve, which is institutional and strengthen the institutions for the progress of this country and not for the people to talk to us negatively. That's the point. We can, if some are rid of attitudes and practices that they have in mind, I think we can do so regardless of the ideological position of each other. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Listen, there has been a lot of talk about Members, about movements, etc. This is what's happening now. It's not a fight! Because it has been mentioned too many times by colleagues on the Democratic Association and the Change Movement, we have made a call, the Fofi Gennamas as President of PASOK, for the regeneration of the democratic party, and parties and persons belonging to the wider area of the democratic party. And that is an effort that can help to improve the functioning of both parties and Parliament and democracy. We didn't make any calls to the right-wing, the steep ones! We did not make any call to the old-fashioned house of the past, which you would have abolished and which you have unfortunately incorporated into SYRIZA. All the old-fashioned thing you've got. And our gigantic and excruciating right! And now you're talking about government majorities? With what ID? And what face do you invite to the progressive party, to us, when you have this front, the extreme right-wing ones? I mean, you call me to sit in the same chair as Papacosta! Are you serious? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] It's over there! All right, let's move on. To conclude, Mr President, I will be placed in two or three articles, and before I finish I will tell you this: Friday - and I informed the President by letter - here the Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Kouvelis, did not come to answer me, for the most part, because he has answered, says, the question, etc. and the matter has been answered. I read today in a newspaper that he is holding a meeting here in Parliament with the Members, he says, who have signed a joint question - see SYRIZA and Danelis - on the subject of transport equivalent in order to give answers. In other words, it does not come to the institutional process of parliamentary control, it "writes" me properly, but also to know that the Greek people and the Cretans will give it to him in any way they can. It does not deal in Crete, but other politically will pay the "bride". Well, others will pay her, I don't know who they will be. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] But I'm interested in this: Is he having a meeting with the MPs on the subject? Okay. And why don't you call all the MPs in Crete, only call the symbiotes and Daniels? Why, Mr. Kuvell? So this is an anti-institutional function and it does it in the House too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u64	Go ahead, please, and the articles you want to place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. Let's make Koumoundourou, let her do it to the Ministry, I wouldn't say anything. But, to God, in the House and to announce that they are only calling systolics? There's an explanation, of course. I'll make it public. I now come to the Rules of Procedure, because I have already spoken too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u66	It's about time. Finish soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. For Articles 12 and 19 I wanted to say. It was at the Conference of Presidents that I proposed a regulation concerning the special guards and there was a consultation, there was a consensus and the committee did, and prepared it. It is the typical closure of a development that we have to move forward. We were also put to the committee yesterday in a positive position, and we voted and had reservations about some other articles. Why did we look into the articles and why did Theodore Papatheodorou say there was no consensus at all? Because that's a problem. In other words, there has to be a corresponding preparation and progress. In any case, because we consider Article 19 to be a fair development, which must be completed, we did not intend to vote against it, despite the criticism of the lack of consensus, nor will we vote against it. We're positive, because this all has to be done in the best way...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u68	Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u69	I'm done, Mr. President. So we'll be positive in these two articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Ms Theodora Megalonikou from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Excuse me the laryngitis. Now to defend myself, my neck is closed. I thank Mr. Paradise for referring to my name. I'm trying to get through the monsters. They're throwing me in the snake pit, and I'm trying to cut heads. I, as a new Member, thought of it very much. Perhaps I will never talk again, because we are talking about the courtesy of the Greek Parliament. Previously, when the Vice-President of Parliament - I thank at least the officials of this House - do well to do their job - says that Parliament can work without MPs, that we do not need in here and that the seats can work for us, I feel disappointed. I'll catch one - one from the beginning. I would like to address the New Democracy. Well, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you didn't just vote in proportion. You have within your party MPs who are completely sexists, Mr. Yakumato, Mr. Economou and others. Don't move your hand, Mr. Chiara.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u72	As I hear you, I have the right to move my hand. I didn't tell you anything! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u73	All right, do what you want. There's too much, and I'm forgetting it. The revision of the shameful Article 86 which will become 'unresponsible to Ministers', I think, is the only good thing, as should the immunity of Members of Parliament for criminal and civil offences. Only for the right of speech we had this right, like the university asylum, is to have freedom of speech, not to hide, like a Member of your Parliament, of the New Democracy, who had killed a girl on Alimos Avenue years ago and was never tried! Why? Was it above the law? As for the PASOK, gentlemen, which was the mere analogue, your President, Mrs. Gennimata, did not vote for it, she had the courage to call Tsipras a "neo-communist". I wonder how the communists accepted it. You fertile the KKE, who were rebels and fought in the National Resistance, in Gorgopotamos, while all the right-wings were with the hoods, donors. Dollars, yes! You're the same as Golden Dawn. As for Mr. Leventis, yesterday he had a speech in Pallas, do you know what he said? Let's get the Wude ready. If that's possible! Let's get the gondie ready! So, they're splitting us so far, making a civil war? What Golden Dawn said, namely, we need to get ready for the Macronese, make up the rest that they want to become a museum. I'm ashamed! I am ashamed of the Greek Parliament right now. I tell you sincerely, because I was the only Member to have been independent for six months. I saw things so clearly and despite all the suggestions I had, I chose to go to SYRIZA, because I said I prefer to go with the losers and clean, rather than the winners and dirty ones and suffer so much bullying from all parties! The only thing I blame for the SYRIZA is that, for a year, no one came out to defend me. They let Mr Leventis say'my seat' and'my seat' and'my seat'! When I became independent, I told him to take the seat, but they said 'no', because behind me was Mr. Callianos and his indifference was to say that I wanted to become a vice president, to make my daughter a transctor! That is the Parliament we have! Mr. Leventis said "no family rule" and made his son and Vice-President of the Parliament MP. I said to him, "Don't make your son Vice President of the Parliament, because you're caring for society when you said "no family rule" you should've meant it." That's why I left the party. Because when he made his son Vice President, I told him "do anyone else", but he was there. In two years he made him Vice President of the House. If it was ten years, what would he do? Emperor? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't need any chair or I asked for any chair. I'm sorry about you. You said about the Macronese. My father fought in Albania and then in El Alamaine. I'm baptized by Vebo, and I'm proud of it. And when he died, do you know what they asked my mother for? To return the kiosk he had never taken! And he didn't agree to put us in public. I've got his medals and he hasn't agreed to put us in public. I was studying and working at a shipping company, and if he had put me in public at 36 years of age, with three children, I would have been retired and paid by the time my mother arrived. I am sorry about the Greek Parliament and the old parties. You say to me, the old Members, that 'I have twenty-five, thirty-year-old MP'. And what are you telling me? To cheer you up? He says to you "profession: MP and head office: Greek Parliament". And that's not all. You want to hand over your business and your children! Keroyannis, Varvitsiotis and Karamanlis! You give it after hereditary, as if your parliamentary seat is your business. Aren't you embarrassed? I'm ashamed of you! I'm ashamed I became a congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u74	If you're kind enough, finish your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u75	I can't go on anymore. I'm really sorry about the two big parties that have been fighting for so many years. I'm really sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u77	Here you go, Mr. Georgiadis, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u78	As you can see, Mr President, we have once again experienced absurdity within the Greek Parliament. Mrs Pinheiro called all the political leaders all the knuckles in public.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u79	Yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u80	When your time comes, speak. Please. Nobody interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u81	Just quiet down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u82	In your sense of insanity, no one has interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u83	Speak, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u84	He called all the political leaders "curabies", except for Mr Tsipras. I would also like to ask the rest of the others who are here, if they want, to take the floor, to defend the political leaders. As far as the words he has said and whether we can take into account whether it is honest, he has made a public undertaking that if we ask for the seat, he will deliver it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u85	Admit what you asked me to do at office 51, and I will deliver the seat!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u86	Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u87	Mrs. Big Housekeeper, please sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u88	This is Parliament. It's not a panel, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. You can do this at the panels. Because you are saying that you are doing this on your own right now. You should do that at the panels you're invited to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u89	Carry on, Mr. Georgiadis, and finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u90	In conclusion, Mr President, he has just said so much about personal things. To judge whether she is honest with her reasons, she has come out publicly and said that if we ask for the seat, she will come out and deliver it. We've asked for the seat and we're waiting to hand it over. But obviously the chair's convenient and doesn't want the lady to leave her. We never said he wouldn't give it after he left for any Mr. Calliano. This has happened before he left the party. We told her that if you leave, and if you don't hand over your seat, she'll go to New Democracy. From there on, after she left, she is free and accountable to her actions. From now on, "151" is at the moment of the Greek Parliament, and that is why it does not give the seat, so that it does not throw the government away! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u93	No, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. There's no personal matter. He didn't say anything about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u94	There must be respect for Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Papadopoulos, calm down. The last speaker, Mr Antonios Syrigos, SYRIZA MP, has spoken for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will make a special reference to an article we are discussing today and then I will say a few words, since a lot has been heard. From one point on, many thoughts have been put forward, many proposals. It's a fruitful dialogue. I'll say mine, and all of this is judged. I am looking to find - this is the special reference - because it has been set out previously, by what provision is there that reports of the State's Budget Office are being dropped. I didn't find any. On the other hand, there is a subparagraph which has not been repealed, in Article 30a(3), which remains, i.e. that these reports are posted on the website of the Greek Parliament and is presented before the Standing Committee, etc. I therefore think there is no question of this and it has been badly raised. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin with a question raised by the Opposition. Minority government or not? At least three times it has been finalized - one in the budget, one in the rejection of the proposal for distrust of the New Democracy and one in the vote of confidence given to the government - that this government has the confidence of Parliament. Furthermore, Rule 84 of the Constitution speaks of Parliament's confidence and leaves no room for other interpretations. It is therefore the claim for a minority, unfounded and irresistible government. I wonder, and if a government enjoys Parliament's confidence, what is the presumption of what is being declared when it proves that there is the confidence of the House? It's a question. The President of Parliament - I come to a second - must, as his main concern, indeed - have the uninterrupted functioning of the legislative, legislative and audit work. This is the main obligation and it is the President of Parliament who is faithfully respected and cannot be blamed for this concern and care. In this sense, it does not mean a President of the House who would not want to protect the House from deliberate or unintentional arrhythmias. That is what the current President of Parliament is doing and that has been done so far. A third element: the debate, consultation, society, the exchange of views between the state's top players, such as - for example - the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister (the President of the Government) and the President of the Parliament, is in no way an intervention of one another. It is an obligation to consult each other. That is why I believe that the Prime Minister's letter must be read again, and from there it is a given that what I claim to be absolutely understandable. Consensus is not an intervention and is necessary among the leading state actors. The House must continue its work properly for the benefit of society, a task which cannot be perpetuated by the provocation of certain formalism crises. After all, no government that firmly salves in Parliament's confidence falls in such a way. It's an inappropriate attempt. Ladies and gentlemen, the House is doing its job until the due constitutional deadline, and so is the government that enjoys its trust. Anybody who disagrees with this shall have adequate constitutional facilities and may exercise them. Otherwise, the blockade of Parliament's work in all ways, whether procedural or not - but not political - will allow me to say - that is what has been heard - in my own humble opinion is indeed institutional inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr Syrigo. We will now close the debate with the President of Parliament, Mr. Nikos Voutsi. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with what I will end with, namely that I, as President of Parliament and my colleagues in the Bureau, have been doing our duties with an absolute institutional commitment. I say it like that, and I'll say it in the end. For that very reason, whoever or any political force reasonably according to the Constitution objects to this effort we make in the way we do it, it has every way of acting subversively, deterringly, for the sake of Parliament, by putting forward a motion of censure. It is not right that what has been done four - five times over the last two years through leaks and through various open pavemental expressions. I remember an officer's press office that wrote "not to scratch the President in his glaze" and other things that I really raise my hands high, because no matter how much controversy we have in here, our phrases honor us and in any case we take care of it. So it is not possible - I repeat - for two years to be targeted by a particular party, in this case by the Qualified Opposition, with reasoned or inappropriate things - that I respect all the objections or suggestions made and the arguments put forward - and that creates a flaw that can lead to a dead end. So I think - and I say this for the third time - that I and all my fellow Vice-Presidents, that is to say, the Bureau, with an excellent institutional commitment for these three and a half years - and I believe that from now on, we are doing our job. I'm saying this right. We need a number of things that have been put today because of the climate - that is what has been said - to clarify them from this Step. Because you know very well that although I write very much, I speak, I go to broadcasts and to radios, never in matters relating to Parliament - such as policing to anything else - I am placed only on this step or on the parliamentary authors. Some things, then, need to be clear. First of all, with regard to the mobility of Members who have been at this last part-session in particular, but also at the previous part-sessions of the House. I will not go into previous examples of what happened in the first and second Memorandums, which parties became, how many MPs came, left and so on. I don't care about the comparative element. I'm interested in getting out of conspiracy. I am interested in all of us being aware that we are in an eighth-party parliament, that is to say, at the fourth summit, something that we have not lived before in the last fifteen years, we are dealing with top issues, such as the constitutional review that begins, Mr President, next week, and we are faced with, that is to say, as a political expression of society, in great loose ends, for example, national ones, such as the question of the Ambassadors who divides, divides, creates conscious problems. The MPs are outside this climate? Where are the MPs? I will defend all the honourable Members who have made any new view of their political position and attitude to any party or the area of Independents. I'm leaving six. I'll come back later. I am in favour of you because exactly what is being done, in the sense of political importance and the period that we are going through in Greece and Europe, is so important that they are probably remodeling - it does not apply to me or the JRC, as Mr Pafilis said earlier - consciences, political choices, etc. So we're gonna have to get out of conspiracy, how much he got, what he said, how many will Mitsotakis put in the ballots tomorrow of those who already came or who will come. This isn't about it. We need to understand what we are going through, how we are going through it and how we can jointly deal with it. Secondly, in relation to the letters that have been made. I'm really sorry. I cannot obviously interfere on radios and on channels by correcting, but I hear from yesterday. No one has said - beforehand, it has only been heard by Mr Paradise and by one, two more colleagues - that these Members in their individual letters clearly state in addition to the bills which have a roll-call vote. In other words, all the bills on which there are serious objections, objections and which every Member of Parliament is invited to present personally with. This need, how did it come about? Weren't we all here? Then just take it easy. A week ago, then, it was the bill for the ASP. We remember that. So there is the traditional method by which Parliament is expressed. He's not anywhere in the Rules of Procedure. Nor is the concept of declared after the second day of the elections. I say this if they hear from parliament and from elsewhere. Easy and easy to find out. I repeat, therefore, that, in parliamentary practice, the representatives of the parties are saying and substantiating the Bureau, what Mr Venizelos said earlier, the presumption of the majority on the basis of the statements made by the representatives of the parties. And so there is neither continuous roll-call votes nor there is a need for all Members to be here or even the seventy-fifths of the Rules of Procedure. Because he says something. Be seventy-five, not five. It's okay. We've got it like this. And that's right. So what happened in this bill? There was a majority. For during the submission of opinions, the SYRIZA spokesman represented the forty - five MPs, and the others all other parties together were thirty - three. But everyone knew, knew and understood that as there are sixteen colleagues now at the Independent dance, something had to be corrected in a way, something had to be emphasised. We went on the other day and there was a process, which once again had a rhetoric within the unprecedented - swelling of things, disagreements, I leave them - and we voted for a roll-call vote. Because, as has been said before against acorn and has not been called into question by the Qualified Opposition, this government has at least taken place in the last seven months - it has taken three times the Parliament's confidence. We said then - remember, we were up because there was a dialogue within Parliament - going everywhere in nominal terms. That was a solution. Then at the Conference of Presidents, we have work to do outside. We have therefore said that the issue should be approached with a broader consensus, since there will be the right of other Members to say that they are voting, as the six Members have finally said, having voted many times and having given a vote of confidence and recently, on bills which do not have a roll-call vote and which do not result in a roll-call vote. Obviously, in any of them - I do not rule out this - they may also come bills that have sensitive issues, for example, human rights, is no longer the memorandum or the memorandum, there are things that are not just the Prespes - any one of them, like any of us, may say that I am not voting for it. That's what happened. This is so that together there can be the presumption that when each party is voting, they can know that of the sixteen - or the day after tomorrow they may be six, they may be fewer or twenty - I am not going to the numerical - there are at least six Members who, with an initial statement, consider that they are voting on the bill brought by the government so that there is no dispute and no roll-call votes, etc. That's what this is about. Instead, there is a rhetoric of decay, a rhetoric, which confronts the six colleagues, with questions and other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u99	The groups...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u100	Excuse me, Mr. Chiara. I am not just saying what has happened on your part. I am also talking about public blackmails, about dedications and about packages that want to pillage or often want to target colleagues and to which we must all be on the one side and not allow this situation. So I say that's seven clear. That's what this is about. Any political force considers that the present government obviously does not have the confidence of the House is making the relevant constitutional procedure. It's been six months, etc. What's the whole other nigger for? Has democratic sensitivity been raised in relation to what? Just as there was this care to heal what all of us jointly saw and faced. And I come to the point of the Prime Minister's letter. Here, I really am telling you, I cannot follow what has been said since yesterday. The Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, with his dense presence for three and a half years in the Greek Parliament - unlike at least the recent past of other Prime Ministers, because in the past there were other Prime Ministers who had a dense presence and participation in the events - has an excellent presence, in terms of consistency, within Parliament, on all levels. As too, he has a right to make references. You know it better than me because you're older. It could, in other words, also make references or letters to the plenary. And to say that on this issue which has arisen publicly, it is my view and I would be beg that. Because he is also the President of Parliament's largest parliamentary group. I say to you, I cannot understand how, for example, the Chief of Officerial Response today, for once, with a 'official' phrase - from a written text - said to me that I did not perform my institutional role because I had to return to the six colleagues their letters and to the Prime Minister. I am right to say to you: I in the challenge and in the invitation to act in anti-institutional terms and to work against the majority of this House and against the Prime Minister, not only am I going to consent, but I would regard it as the last institutional handicap and I would resign. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's what this is! Whether we are institutionally committed and in a way we are dealing with things or with 'partnership - this' - what I have heard from top executives in the last few days is not said - and we are beinghave differently. What do you mean? Turn against the majority! That's the invitation. And this invitation obviously does not contain a trace of institutional decency and historical importance does not contain a trace of institutional commitment. So there is a fourth issue which I would like to clarify and which concerns the functioning of the House. I mean the famous provisions that would come to the Rules of Procedure, etc. On this issue, I really expected there to be a wider consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, there was no proposal on our part to have shared or made public before the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We were all trying to understand, to understand what could be cured for the sake of the parliamentary procedure. It is clear and I do not want to refer to historical examples by calling at least four leading politicians in the past four years. And they were left without a parliamentary group. They were top politicians in the country, who were several, and there was a great respect to them from Parliament. You're looking at me. You want me to name names? It was Ziggis, Eliou, Marquezine and others. You know that. Since the Group of the European People's Party was amended because of political developments, the Group of the European People's Party, which was led by it on the night of the election, remained as units, as two, as three people, and no one was understood to get them out of order and the minimum privileges - name them - to be able to operate as leaders of a party. That's what this is about. That's what we wanted to heal. I'll speak with names to be clear. It's Mr. Theodorakis and his role. He's got a party, he's been down two, three times in the election. It's a state grant. His party is on the PSE list for how much time he is entitled to media. It's a question of being able to act as party leader. Because the House has no right to abolish the party. It's a matter of popular sovereignty from elections to elections. It is a different matter for the Group of the European People's Party. We have said, and I have said, the only time I have spoken before the Committee on the Rules of Procedure - that we are not prepared to intervene on the groups. If anything needs to be done, we will wait for an opinion, which we will discuss. I, too, have an opinion on exactly what the Rules of Procedure says, but it doesn't matter. So we dismantled these two. It was an attempt so that although in the near future there are other political leaders and other parties that will be deprived of the possibility of the parliamentary group in the way we know - because there cannot be a parliamentary group less than five, it must have a Vice-President, a parliamentary representative, a rapporteur, a leader, the alphabet we are now saying to each other? - to provide a provision, an addition to the Rules of Procedure, that in any event, by analogy, etc. They too, those who are among these leaders, can be treated with discrimination when they are given the floor. That's what it was all about. The whole institutional diversion, all of Pompey, was described by the dear Vaggelis Venizelos earlier with his glazing, as well as by several of you, from a step in the House, because you obviously want to make a scarecrow so that you can legalise the existence of a democratic - Divine, Lord, prisoner my mouth - forehead to SYRIZA in the face of the electoral process - all realize it - with pretentious things for which we could all come to an understanding or are reasonable as far as possible. These are the truths, which of course are not discussed in the panels, radios, the glamorous statements by the leaders, etc. I mean, in relation to what happened. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a design, a narrative to present a government that is not strong, even though it has passed these targets which were, in August, the budget, then the exit into the market, after the individual measures and bills that came. So there is all this planning to show a powerless and democratic institutional retreat. Watch the danger! And you're talking about Golden Dawn, I'm so sorry! I beg your pardon very much, but this logic, this rhetoric, this planning, this narrative, that 'is there a government that we should do? There will be a few more months left - others say four, others say eight or nine etc. - but you should know that this government is not a government, it is a minority and they are doing retaliatory tricks and with various peripherals to govern the country's, what a beautiful sign it is internationally in the political life of the country, in society, which has the thousands of sufferings and which we know now that it is ready to consider the political life of the country as a whole and the political forces have arrested democracy and Parliament are useless! What a beautiful rhetoric! Could anyone say, say, what am I supposed to say now? - that the gar of sorrow gives birth to insanity or embarrassment? It's dangerous, though. Do we understand that? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You have every obligation and we all have to locate mistakes, weaknesses, slips, phrases, extremities - alas! - and coexist through it and through our controversy. But not such a rhetoric, which leads to situations which are at the expense of democracy. I mean something else. The Prime Minister felt the need to say something that I feel and to say it from this Step. We are not blackmailing and nobody can blackmail us. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You realise very well that any attempt in this direction will not only fall into the void, but will also lead its inspirations literally and to the margin of political life, but also to the margin of our democracy in general. Let's keep this. I should like to conclude by saying this because I believe that the Rules of Procedure should also be voted on. I have noted Mr Kegeroglu's point of order on Rule 12 and 19 concerning the staff of the House. I am amazed to note the position of the New Democracy, because I do not want to table in the Minutes of July this sitting that Mr Tragakis had played a leading role - I say it positively - in raising both questions concerning staff, either the special guards or the secondmentees. I'm surprised, really. The justification, 'you know, in this climate, we cannot discuss these,' is unprecedented, it is unbelievable, because this country and this Parliament, if anything else in the last ten years, has lived a climate for which, in the next forty years, we have been able to go and you and others have lived. Is that possible now? Is that what this is? Allow me - and I am not interpreting intentions - today was an option to enter a stone yet in a puzzle to create acidification, peaking, splitting ahead of both the next political medals in both the country and the House. Hold that. I do not suggest that, although they want a broad consensus, and although we always wanted to make broad consensus, I have told you beforehand about the provision for the leaders. Finally, we withdrew it, since no one publicly came out to lose, nor should those who should understand what we mean for the good of all of us, nor those who were concerned with them. No one's come out to lose. We were told 'yes, do it, it's fine, but you know, you understand now'. We dropped it. I won't withdraw it. I do not take responsibility for Article 12 and Article 19 to withdraw them because we are talking about people, we are talking about employees, we are talking about lives, about families, we are talking about obligations, we are talking about commitments that we have taken in here, and I am not putting this story in regularity. Articles 12 and 19 will be left. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by saying this: if we have a general debate on what we are doing and how we conduct ourselves in this House and our institutional commitment, this will be an opportunity - I do not want it, I do not want it, to be clear - to say too much. I will simply say today that it is a whole chapter that would be worth it once or when we have to have to, if we go to a motion of censure on the President's face, say what Parliament has received and what steps have been taken here. We have not said anything about it, and you know it very well. We have not even given a hint about how and who had served, worthy executives all come here saying "What all you who helped us, etc." It's worthy of executives. But how did the recruitments, the crises, the missions become? In every presidency how many hundreds - they are a little creepy the numbers - of friends and colleagues and partners with whom I went these three and a half years and took my hat off, we went hand in hand, they are working. But how they came, how they got in and in what process this was done. We have not talked about the Rules of Procedure, let me tell you. Are you talking about the Rules of Procedure? How nice! Where did they come from? From parties that are - because you're talking about Postpopulation and it happens because I'm very old, old to know the Postpopulation day, right? - these decades. Are you talking about the two parties, where you were a majority here, about the Rules of Procedure of the House? Yeah? How many Special Regulations were there? Because I say that a project has been carried out. Work was carried out both in Part I and Part II, in the Central Regulation. How many Special Regulations were there, in how many departments of Parliament outside the knowledge and vote of the House? Lots of people. And you know very well that, together with the absolute cooperation of both Mr Tragakis and Mr Tsiara and Mr Kaklamanis, we have all gone three and a half years to unify the Rules of Procedure, to be all in DIAFANIA and in DIAGIA and to have voted for every article of his here. This is because we are talking about the fact that some monsters and some points have been made in the Rules of Procedure. If that's possible! For the crises, we are not the only place on the Greek territory that has made and completed it fully, I stress it - the evaluation process and for all levels of personnel selection, from the department and the staff to the Director-General? I repeat: it was done with help and consent, and together we went, but quietly. We won't have three faces and three speeches and three different rhetoric! But to say the Press Office, but the party's Secretary-General, but the MEP, but the Chief, and others, do in here, do well and do it together, I say! What's gonna happen? Where's this situation going? It is your issue, but it is also a matter of the functioning of Parliament and of democracy, let me say. It cannot continue in this way. We could say many other issues and aspects of Parliament's operation. Some figures and opinions have been heard. Mercy! It was a mistake by Mr Papatheodorou, who said about the clarity, transparency and the Bureau of the Parliament, because it is not this verse, but it is the verse above. It has nothing to do with it. It's wrong. It's okay, but I have to say it. We can't be afraid of what? Since Parliament's Budget Office puts its reports up, it brings them up like all the other independent authorities, they go to all the committees, there is dialogue, there is discussion, there are international discussions. The role of the Parliamentary Budget Office has been substantially upgraded. Do you want to say no because of the climate? Hey, let's say no because of the climate! We will not, however, say that we say no about the Parliament's Budget Office, because suddenly some curious people want to hide, who have one of their own, and will not post his reports. What are these things? In other words, out of place and over time this type of argument, like other arguments which do not stand, is out of place, because, obviously, we have a good conscience to see them together. So I'm closing up with what I started. I believe that, with the help of all or most of them, and political forces and persons and certainly the staff and officials - they are not simple staff - we are working here at all levels, which is absolutely solid, founded and which is in favour of the institutions, in favour of the Parliament, in favour of the Republic, in favour of the history of the political life of the country. The irreversible cries and rhetoric, which is systematically publicized, unlike what is happening in here, will fall into the void, because all lies have short feet. As far as the challenge is concerned - because I am also a personal continuous targeting - and the invitation to how each institutional and state factor will function, let us see himself first, let him see in his mirror, let us see how we all have to function. I'm trying too hard. I may make mistakes, I may draw back, locate them to me, but to shake the finger a state player into the other state factor because he has put an intensity in his design, an acidification and perhaps even a divisional logic, is unauthorized, and it cannot be done with the sword of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, following the position of the President, Mr Nikos Voutsi, the debate on the proposal of the President of the Parliament of the Greeks is adjourned: "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (Government Gazette 51 A/104-1997) and Part Parliamentary (Government Gazette 106 A 224-86), as applicable". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of the President's proposal and they will be voted on separately. I would ask the parties' rapporteurs to remain until the end of the vote. We would point out that the vote includes the beginning of the proposal, twenty-three articles, the hotel article and the whole of the proposal. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. After making sure that you have voted for all the articles, the hotel article and the whole and after you register your vote, you have the opportunity to check it or to revise it by the end of the vote. For any question you may address to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u102	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u103	The parties' positions, as reflected in the electronic system vote, are as follows: In principle, by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: No PASS: No People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Yes ALE: Yes Centro Association: Present Article 1 as acting by a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: Yes PISS: Yes People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Yes ALE: Yes Centro Association: Yes Article 2 as acting by a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: Present PISS: Yes People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Yes ALE: Yes Centro Association: No Article 3 as a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: Yes PISS: Yes People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Yes ALE: Yes Centro Association: No Article 4 as acting by a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: No PASS: No People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: No ANEL: No Centro Association: No Article 5 as acting by a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: Yes PISS: Yes People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Yes ALE: Yes Centro Association: No Article 6 as acting by a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: Present PASS: No People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Yes ALE: Yes Centro Association: Present Article 7 as acting by a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: Present PISS: Yes People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Yes ALE: Yes Centro Association: Present Article 8 as acting by a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: Yes PISS: Yes People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Yes ALE: Yes Centro Association: Present Article 9 as amended by a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: Present PISSY: Present People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Yes ANEL: No Centro Association: Present Article 10 as acting by a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: Yes PISS: Yes People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Yes ALE: Yes Centro Association: Present Article 11 as acting by a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: Yes PISS: Yes People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Yes ALE: Yes Centro Association: Present Article 12 as amended by a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: No PISS: Yes People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Yes ALE: Yes Centro Association: No Article 13 as acting by a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: Yes PISS: Yes People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Yes ALE: Yes Centro Association: No Article 14 as acting by a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: Yes PISS: Yes People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Yes ALE: Yes Centro Association: No Article 15 as acting by a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: Yes PISS: Yes People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Yes ALE: Yes Centro Association: Present Article 16 as acting by a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: Yes PISSY: Present People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Yes ALE: Yes Centro Association: Present Article 17 as acting by a majority SYRIZA: Yes New Republic: No PASS: No People's Association - Golden Dawn: No JRC: Present ANEL: No Centro Association: No Article 18, acting by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. ANEL: No. Centro Association: Yes. Article 19 shall act by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: No. Article 20 shall be by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 21, as amended, by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 22 shall be adopted by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 23 shall be by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. ANEL: No. Centro Association: No. Imperial article by majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Present. The total majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. ALE: Yes. Centro Association: Present. Ladies and gentlemen, the positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u104	Consequently, the proposal by the President of Parliament: 'To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (Government Gazette 51 A/104-1997) and Part Parliamentary (Government Gazette 106 A-24-6-1987), as they apply', was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to give its approval to the Bureau for the ratification of the minutes in respect of the vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u106	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-05-S1-commons.u107	With the consent of the House at 21.57' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, February 6, 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, only debate and vote at the outset, articles and all of the draft law: "Definition of the Act of Legislative Content of 31 December 2018, "Extension of the possibility of exempting primary residence from liquidation under Legislative Decree 3869/2010 (A 130), extension of reduced VAT rates on the islands of Leros, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios and extension of the measure of "Transport Equivalent" of Law 4551/2018".
