ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to this House the following: The Ministers of Health, Finance and the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Health submitted a draft law on 4-6-2019: "Following the individual contracts for Projects V and VI of the 6-9-2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation “Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation” and the Greek State to strengthen and upgrade infrastructure in the field of health." It was referred to the competent Standing Committee, which has already met. Also, the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its reports to the draft laws of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Strengthening the Criminal Code" and "Strengthening the Code of Criminal Procedure". And secondly, the Standing Committee on Social Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Following the individual contracts for Projects V and VI of the 6-9-2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation "Common Benefit Foundation Stavros S. Niarchos" and the Greek State in order to strengthen and upgrade infrastructure in the field of health". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Decision of the Conference of Presidents of 4 June 2019 on the unanimous proposal of the Conference of Presidents. The proposal of the President of Parliament was accepted by the members of the Conference of Presidents, acting unanimously. Therefore, the vote can be taken in accordance with Rule 108(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, say the same thing because the world will not understand the number.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u3	It is the late Kyriakos Papadopoulos, who, on 21-12-2018 in his memory, was described as "The Hero of the Aegean" for his active participation in the search and rescue of thousands of people in the Aegean Sea, giving his wife Ignatia Tikelis and his two minor children the four silver medals "The Heroes of the Revolution". Having regard to the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 4 June 2019 on credit for the account of 2250989001 of the Parliament's budget, the Conference of Presidents unanimously decided on financial support from the Parliament's budget annually in view of the adoption of the children of Captain Kyriakos Papadopoulou of Stavros. I told you it had to be passed through the House as well. If anyone wants the floor, he could have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u5	Yes, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel obliged to refer to the extremely important and honourable decision taken by the Conference of Presidents by Mr Papadopoulos. I would remind you that master Kyriakos Papadopoulos was the one who recorded in the most important way what he would say solidarity. He is the man who saved too many lives in the difficult waters of the Aegean, in difficult times. The decision of the Conference of Presidents - and I am sure that with the same unanimity and the Greek Parliament will accept the so-called 'appointment' of the children of the Papadopoulos family - it is an honorable recognition of what Mr Papadopoulos has done, a attitude of bravery, duty, solidarity, and solidarity, which I would like to assure you on the grounds that it reflects very clearly and daily in the behaviour of all the men and women of the Port Authority and the Greek Coast Guard. Ladies and gentlemen, in the name of always honored Mr. Papadopoulos, I must tell you that the Port House is doing a great deal of heroic work and that is recorded. It is recorded in the international community, which recognises what our country, Greece, does, which is doing the Port Corps, the Greek Coast Guard. I am sure that the Greek Parliament, you, ladies and gentlemen, will unanimously accept the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents. It is an act on the part of the House, which, not only honours, but at the same time recognises all those who self-sufficiently offer what we say duty and in this particular case this duty and as expressed within the Aegean Sea is a very difficult matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u9	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u10	Obviously, Mr President, we accept this decision of the Conference of Presidents. It's the minimum tribute to a hero.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u11	Does another colleague want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u13	Here you go, Mr. Palley.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kyriakos Papadopoulos, my fellow commander, one of the many who in recent years have been saving every day and today when we are talking about human lives, an example and a model of family and human rights, has left early. He left a huge deposit. I am very happy that the Conference of Presidents - and I imagine that this House today too - is giving its orphans children and their wife the minimum amount so that, with all our love and affection, they too can move on in their lives and become renowned as their father was. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you again - I am speaking as Lesvius - for the great honour that this House is doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Palley.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u17	Here you go, Mrs. Canelle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, there was no way of saying anything different today, no matter what it has changed, no matter what it has changed. Of course we will say 'yes'. I would only ask, and let there be no time in the future, for this: we are talking about honorary protection for children from this House. The word 'approved' by Parliament is less than intentional. They'll always be a hero's children. Therefore, we can work out a better definition in our language in the future. Let it also be under the protection of Parliament and of the country. It is better to obey the children than to observe the conditions. That's nothing else. Of course, 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Canelley. Does the House agree with the unanimous proposal of the Conference of Presidents from 4 June 2019?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u20	The House unanimously agreed. The unanimous proposal of the President of the Parliament and of the Conference of Presidents was therefore accepted in principle and in its entirety unanimously. I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as regards the vote on the above proposal by the President of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: First, ‘Clarification of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Azerbaijan on environmental protection’. Secondly, ‘Preparation of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Distribution of the Benefits resulting from their use in the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity’. The bills were voted on in the standing committee by a majority and were put to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these agreements. I propose that there should be a single debate on these agreements and that those who object, for five minutes, be given the floor. Also, since amendments have been tabled in the bills, Members of Parliament may take the floor on the amendments for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u22	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u23	Right away. I would remind you that the parties' positions in committee on the first agreement with the Government of Azerbaijan are as follows: SYRIZA and the Democratic Alliance had agreed, the New Democracy had expressed reservations, the Golden Dawn and the JRC were against and the River had expressed reservations. In the second about the Nagoya Protocol, SYRIZA and the Potami were in favour, the New Democracy and Democratic Reconciliation had expressed reservations and the Golden Dawn and the JRC were against. I hear you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, there is a more general point of order, which must also concern us and the Greek people, both today and tomorrow and Friday. No one or any Member believes that the government, moved by these conventions, has decided that they should now be put to the vote, because if they did not bring them forward now and come in a month, something bad would happen, and the one and the other have some years that have not come to Parliament. You have been conducting this process, while the Prime Minister has spoken for ten days about the need for the country to go to the elections, because he and his party have been defeated. You are keeping this House open, and you are supposed to be moved by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which, on the other hand, is not present - and on the other hand, you also have amendments. Tomorrow, you bring codes with a thousand or more articles to vote through unacceptable procedures. As much as there can be good regulations in some amendments and I have no objections, the way in which you have chosen is unequivocal. It is unacceptable that the deficit and the sensitivity of democratic legitimacy, which the government has, and also the President of Parliament, allows it to do what it does. To close, it looks like you think that through last minute rosés, services or even proper arrangements, but now coming to nothing but one or one, in five, will fall. We denounce that. Because yesterday I heard the Prime Minister refer to Churchill, I'm going to tell him his key consultant told him that you don't give a body life. What is happening is openness, afflicting the country's parliamentary morality, has never been done, despite the fact that governments in the last years of their term of office do something, some regulations are doing. This one's a bombing. Mr Voutsis himself described it as specific, and we do not accept that particularity and we directly call it a violation of parliamentary morality, a violation of the Constitution from top to bottom. To close, Mr President, this is not just what happens here, but something else is happening in our foreign policy and in Greek-Turkish relations. He resigned a few days ago - one or two - the head of the Greek delegation, discussing confidence-building measures with Turkey. Why did he quit? In spite of the fact that the Turks, in discussing confidence-building measures, raised airspace issues, as they put them outside the framework of confidence-building measures, Greece has heard them and will now go to Ankara to talk about them in a second round. You can't do this. The country goes to elections. You have no democratic legitimacy. You are insulting popular sovereignty and putting issues at risk that are related to our Greek and foreign policy. We, Mr President, all three days we will be coming here, denounce you - we will not denounce you, the government and the President of this House's choice to allow this procedure - and we shall depart from the meetings. You'll be on your own, not us. We don't collide in such methods!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, we are obliged not to participate in this theater of irrationality. Indeed, a few days ago, the Prime Minister announced early elections. Indeed, this House still has the right to legislate. The point is, however, that what is legitimate is also moral? Of course not. In fact, we have also had a statement by the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, who said: 'I hope that there will not be many amendments, and not photographic.' They're not just photographic, Mr. President, but they're horned. I see, as a surprise, nine amendments from a SYRIZA Member. This means that, for the last few days, there's probably been an overproductiveness of some of your executives and an orgasm, I'd say. If that is the case, in all Members, which you have with the Ministers, Deputys and Secretarys, if they are all tabling ten amendments, we should discuss a thousand six hundred amendments. Everyone wants to make the ruffles of the last minute from the place they come from. Golden Dawn, as I said, will not participate in it. The majority, which you have, you know very well that it is not true. We're the only ones standing against the anti-constitutional arch. And the wish for you, which you temporarily managed, was and is not to be Golden Dawn in the third place. Because in the partnerships that you are looking forward to, the Golden Dawn has stood in the way. Because no one came out to disprove Mrs Bakoyannis's words recently at a radio station, that there was a SYRIZA coexistence agreement with New Democracy, and the only reason why she was prevented was the presence of Golden Dawn, because we had to make a Dedicated Opposition. The only obstacle is us. For decades, your government as a party has been below percentages, which have been recorded and, indeed, you have usually been out-of-parliamentary. The patriotic space, whose absolute expression is Golden Dawn alone, unfortunately for you the anti-constitutional bow, will come more strengthened than ever in the forthcoming elections. We won't consent. We will leave all the plenary sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u27	We move on with Mrs Canelle and then Mr Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I am sorry, but, if it were not the unanimous decision for the hero's children, I could say this sooner and more emphatically, that we are, as it has turned out, in a spring gathering of caregivers and caregivers. Not even spring, summer anymore. I fell and slept yesterday with seven amendments. When I came here, about a half and a half hours ago, it was eleven and until I entered the Chamber and the procedure started it was fifteen. That's all numerically. I'm not going to have any conversation. The two, for which I must say that the Nagoya Convention and the Azerbaijan Convention are to be placed. We've already put it negatively. Our seats are tabled. For reasons of order, I could once again present our positions in the Minutes. I don't think it's necessary, the way the process came. It is 'no' unequivocally. The first, while it seems to protect biodiversity, basically protects biodiversity in favour of multinational and international interests and we will be in front of incredible things in the coming years and especially farmers - not only in our country, but throughout the world - and the second and Azerbaijan, as well as baptism, is an energy toy in which the country is forced to take a stand. So we won't talk about it at all. We will not enter into the debate of anyone who is positive, negative, good, well-functioning, because the process is disgraceful. One cannot watch her and be honest with oneself. It's not the Communist Party that's used to using the House to get videotapes in the election game, so we're leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u29	Mr Famelos, Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I do not know, Mrs Canelles, if you want to hear about this matter only, that is to say, the parliamentary procedure. I'm not going to get the point of sanctions. I'm just letting you know why I won't be placed...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u31	If you choose to respond to a man leaving the Step, this is called "parliamentary blackmail" and I counteract it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u32	Mrs. Kanelle, I'm just telling you, respecting the parliamentary procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u33	In these "climbs"!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u34	I would like to say a few thoughts to Mr Loverdos, who is here and to the speaker of the Golden Dawn, but also to the honourable Members and to the ladies and gentlemen who are here today. I was impressed by the positions which were put forward on the constitutionality and democraticity of the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u35	Minister, I need to interrupt you. I did not give the floor to Mr Carras to answer a whole question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u36	I beg your pardon, but I thought that the parliamentary representatives of the parties were present and that is why I am responding. Are you two of your party, where are you going to be, Mr. Carras?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u37	He's a special speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u38	Whatever you want, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u39	If you're kind enough, put an upper end here, so that Mr. Karras can speak, and then I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u40	I'll wait for Mr. Carras, and then I'll talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u41	I'm sorry, it's my fault. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, with the delay of thirty-five minutes of the opening of the sitting I felt that the government will have understood the manoeuvre it is doing. The President of the Government would have gone to the President of the Republic and announced the dissolution of the House and the announcement of elections. Unfortunately, it seems that this has not been done. You have not understood the size of the attaché - so that I do not use another word - and you continue to legislate on no more topics, because the two conventions which come have no real topicality, but the government is convinced that it seeks, by means of amendments, either ministerial or even 'hidden-minister' - I have named a category of amendments to this concept - to resolve matters of the last minute in order not to be discussed in detail in order to serve feasibility. I must say that the Bureau of Parliament in general - not yourself, Mr President - must protect its authority, because when Mr Butsis says the day before yesterday in statements that this House is a peculiar function these days, what does he mean by 'a peculiar function'? The House either operates or closes. After the result of the European elections, we had to stop working and lead to elections because there was a strong disapproval of the government. It cannot be said today that Parliament is even called upon to legislate on contracts because, Mr President, the validity of this House is not protected. Do you know what that means? You know that, but you want to ignore it. The prestige of the House is to be high the democratic morale, to be high the performance of both parties and MPs. What do we have in front of us today? We have a number of amendments. Let's look at them, Mr. President. They are interventions, if you like, in existing legislation, because they refer to matters of blood, to matters of public property, to the recognition of private rights in public areas. Is that what the House is calling on today to decide? I feel we've exceeded any measure. I feel that we have now exceeded not only the country's well-founded interest, but we are also violating this. I would add something else, Mr President, because there are announcements and publications that there are even recruitments in this House at this time, and they speak of a number of eight officials who are curiously settled, because - as they say - they have relations with political persons or are relatives. I don't know any details. That is what is happening and, as long as it is not disputed by anyone, nor is it disproved, Mr President, I have to accept them and denounce them from the Step forward of this House for the reason that it has now ceased any legitimacy of the government to be able to legislate under the present circumstances. Furthermore, I would like to say this: it calls on the government of the parties to become collaborators and partners in what it is now committing. Well, no, it can't at least be that the Democratic Incorporation, the Change Movement to co-operate or cooperate in such methods, which are unacceptable - so that I don't use another term! I agree with what Mr Loverdos said. We're leaving. But I will complement the fact that we are going to leave, Mr President, with a high head, because we feel that we are contributing to the proper functioning of the society and not helping to violate either the parliamentary or the Rules of Procedure of the House. I therefore think that the government should assume its responsibilities, stop, propose that the debate be suspended in the House today and that the Prime Minister should call for elections. The Greek people, as I said, have expressed, Mr President, negatively for the government and you understand that there is no legitimacy. I won't get into constitutional matters or I won't. It's moral now. It is the parliamentary morale, which requires this decision to be taken today. Because tomorrow - if you want to supplement this - you will, Mr President, introduce a Criminal Code and a Code of Criminal Procedure for a debate in this House. How will it be discussed? By a meeting, a piece of legislation that has been preparing for years? And I should like to remind you that the codes, since they do not have the right to intervene and amend them simply, whether they ratify or cancel, should have been discussed before or be transferred to the next House for what reason? The Criminal Code is critical, the Criminal Procedure is crucial.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u43	But don't go there, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u44	I have my time, Mr President, if you'll excuse me. I have my time. Well, it's critical, it's about freedom, it's about rights. Well, there's a lot of sounds, we read a lot, what's behind it. That's what the government wants to avoid answering. Uh, we leave after that, we have no reason. We leave, Mr President, with a high head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u45	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u46	Mr Minister, just a minute, because Mrs Lyberaki has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u47	Yes, but you won't listen to me, Mr. Carras. You leave without hearing the answer. Is that a democratic moral?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u48	Let's hear the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u49	You can stay and hear the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u51	That's what I told Mrs. Canelley. At least listen to us. Mrs. Libertyraki, I'm not going to take the floor. Just let me just hear...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u52	Why do you prefer to answer those who leave your face and not the others we are here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u53	Mrs. Libertyraki, you have the floor, speak to the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u54	Mrs. Libertyraki, I didn't take the floor. I just informed that I would like those colleagues who want to leave. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u55	Thank you for listening to me, too, and my turn has come. Well, I wasn't going to talk, but in this terrible malicious discourse where we suddenly talk about anti-constitutional, anti-ethics, to go beyond any political legitimisation of practices and steps, I would like to remind you that at the Conference of Presidents it has been explained that the legislation that we are discussing these days, we are talking about because it is mature, because it is not against great objections. It has specifically intervened in the Criminal Codes - I will say this tomorrow - a long debate and plans and comments have been incorporated. These environmental things are really not urgent, but there is no need to wait. So the idea that every time an election takes place, which is not a national election, we must all take the pencils down and keep their breath, say 'apologies that exist as parties and as correlations' until there is elections again, I think it gives the wrong message to society, gives the wrong message to the political system, and in particular gives the wrong message about what the House understands as having to be its role. Therefore, and for reasons of liberalism, I believe that the House should, as long as it is open to doing its job, otherwise the Members and the Members of Parliament are slow to pay. I can't believe this thing that we want to be like this, or that we're ashamed of having our opinions and having our stadium. We'll use it, we'll honor it as long as we have it. That is what the institutional provision says. But let me remind you of something else from the Conference of Presidents. We are prepared to take part in the debate and to vote in favour, as the situation stands, of sanctions and of one and the other, and in any case of the Urban Codes, but we have asked - and I think that this was understood - that the opportunity has not been used in recent days, especially in the maliciousness of the entire blatant excesses of unconstitutionalism, non-legislation, etc., to resolve and settle smaller issues. This is what I know at every election stage. I wouldn't want it to happen this time. I ask the Minister here, if he is kind, to inform us of the amendments. I am simply saying that each Member and every Member of Parliament has the right to put as many amendments as he wants. He has the population to which he refers, and he does his job well. But the government needs to see it a little tighter. I would therefore like the Minister to inform us which of these proposed amendments he accepts, because it is really from one point and then the ball can be lost completely, and I do not want our institutional goodness and meticulousness to be pushing the wrong cart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u56	Mr Famelos, Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have indeed spoken as rapporteur for the bill and for the expedited, but also because of the issues that have been raised by members of the opposition parties about the constitutional, parliamentary and democratic features of the debate. Let us make it clear: there is no constitutional issue for the continuation of Parliament's work, there is no problem of democratic legitimacy, there has been no fact of parliamentary elections, and it is quite legitimate for the House to discuss with its democratic composition and any other procedure would be a violation of parliamentary codes and democratic practices. All the codes of parliamentary ethics are being respected, because - let me say on this subject today - if this sitting were not the case, it would have been a violation of the parliamentary procedure, because the two conventions have already entered and completed the circle of committees before the European elections, and if the debate were not completed in plenary, it would indeed be an interruption of a parliamentary procedure which, since the House has not dissolved, has no basis and would be legitimisation of anyone, if you wish, political and democratic morality. I would also like to say that the debate on codes - I have heard Mr Carras - is not based, obviously because the Committee on Codification has met for too long and it is foreseen that the codes should be ratified by a Parliament meeting. All this is therefore entirely upheld in the parliamentary procedure. I'd like to tell you one more thing. What we are following is completely ethical for two reasons that I shall describe and have to do with Mrs Lyberakis' proposals and opinions. First, what isn't moral? It is not morally inconsistent with the European elections procedure with the government's political function. When did this happen? When after the 2014 European elections, in disparity with the citizens' statement, the then government and the Prime Minister designated the Commissioner to the European Commission and the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Greece. There was a question of political intolerance and political morality. What's moral? The Prime Minister's announcement on the night of the elections of 25 May, when he reads the result and does not fully relate to the democratic rules, but to the political rules that we all have within us, announced that he will appeal to the President of the Republic and will ask for early elections. This is a democratic morality, that is to observe the rules of the parliamentary procedure, as we all feel in our soul. With regard to the issues that have been raised concerning photographic and personal regulations, I would like to say that the decision of the Ministerial Council is just to shield the function of this House at this particular time, as the President of this House said. He didn't say it was peculiar. He said that the period, which we are currently going through, is peculiar, as it is about the preamble to the dissolution of the House and to the use of the polls, so we must be very careful about the ethics of the debate. Something about the framework of an agreement that we are going to make: we thought the issue of codes should be formulated in a framework of agreement, because we had heard from the parties that left out of the codes and thought there might be a common place. Secondly, with regard to the possible 'photographic' and personal amendments, the Ministerial Council and the Government have decided, even though many Members' amendments may have to deal with issues that need to be resolved, that the parliamentary amendments should not be accepted. I have to make that clear from the outset, despite the fact that my colleagues have to put themselves on the table. In reply to the false objections and theatrical to some extent, however, that there are always rospheric windows in this process, with personalized features, I must say that this is the original decision of the Ministerial Council and the line we have between us. I think this has to do with your placement, Mrs. Lymmerakis, to clarify the rules. We must therefore find the composition on various issues, because I do not think what Mr Carras said is based on. Is the Biodiversity Convention a pointless matter? The genetic resources? I have quite the opposite view, and there is a very serious despicability to discuss some things. In the view of the Government, the issue of duty-free is of a fundamental and universal nature. But you will also see our view of the ministerial amendments and we will formulate them here in front of you. In this respect, then, we are very clearly acting with a high democratic spirit and in line with the rules of parliamentary function, and there is nothing to do with what has been heard about the creation of political impressions, in my view, as is usual with the opposition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Minister. To give the floor to the Minister, Mr. Haritsis, to develop the reasoning of a ministerial amendment signed by Mr. Haritsis, Mr. Tsakalotos, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou and Mr. Juliarakis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Although my colleague, Mr Famelos, has completely covered me, let me make a comment before presenting this amendment, because a lot has been heard in the Chamber in the past few days. I was under the impression that the play-news and conspiracy were part of the election strategy of counter-population. It seems that for some - and from those who spoke earlier, who unfortunately left and did not stay to listen to the opponent - this conspiracy process is now a second step. Things are very simple. The Prime Minister demonstrated on the evening of the European elections on 26 May the political bravery - which, in truth, I am passing away, very doubtless, would be demonstrated by those who are now accusing us of the parliamentary procedure under way - to announce that the country, in a orderly manner, will be brought to elections so that the Greek people will decide who will govern this country in the next four years. So that's gonna be a coordinate. There was the prediction that there would be no electoral procedure, which would create an obstacle to the completion of the pan-Hellenic examinations, and that is why the date of the elections - which has already been announced by the Government representative and the Prime Minister - will be the 7th of July. The Constitution stipulates that the election process must take place no more than thirty days after the dissolution of the parliament. So there is no conspiracy. Put the dates down. You will see that the Prime Minister, who, as announced, will go on Monday to the President of the Republic and announce the statement of the elections, moves within the constitutional order and legitimacy. Of course, that means - and it has been said quite rightly before, I think, by Mrs Lyberakis - that, in the meantime, Parliament must - and this is the task of the national Parliament - operates. The state must function and settle, conclude cases - because there is certainly no specific time when matters are frozen and reopened after the elections - which are about to be about protecting the public interest. I am saying this because - we have heard in all the previous debate various verbal excesses from Vice-Presidents who have already left - we must be aware that the cases that we are coming to deal with today have exactly something to do with the protection of the public interest. And I say this on the basis of knowledge, and I refer to the amendment, which I will present to you immediately, with a general number of 2213 and a specialist of 227. So what does this amendment say? First of all, I would like to say that it relates to a procedure which did not start now, but already in the summer of 2017, almost two years, that is, when, after the relevant opinion of the Court of Auditors, it was considered that the municipal cleanliness services cannot be covered by fixed-term workers, by IPO. The Ministry of Interior has since undertaken the very great task of preparing a major tender for the recruitment of permanent staff to return services for the whole of the country. This job was completed by the Ministry of Interior. These positions were subsequently declared by the Supreme Staff Selection Council by the AACC. You know very well, we have discussed this on several occasions in this Chamber, that this is the largest proclamation of permanent staff, which has ever been done. It is about eight and a half thousand new full-time workers. In the meantime, though, because of course the problem of cleanliness was there, many municipalities using pre-existing legislation proceeded to fixed-term contracts with workers, which had emerged as temporary successors in the ADP tables. So what do we got here? We have one case at the moment where they are at work, working in the municipalities of the whole country, temporary workers. The ASAPA, as it has informed us these days - and this is a very important development, because a long-term effort is being completed - it is able to issue the final tables, so the permanent workers, eight and a half thousand, which will take place in the three hundred two municipalities of the country over the next period. But, here, there is a risk that there will be an empty space between the withdrawal, as the law stipulates today, of temporary workers, of private fixed-term law, and the taking-up of the duties of permanent workers. So we come with this regulation to fill this gap, to ensure that there is not a single day on which municipalities across the country will be left without the necessary staff so that they can do their basic role anyway where cleanliness is. It is therefore further extended to the work of contractors until exactly the day for each individual post to be served by young workers. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That is what we do with this regulation. So it is not an arrangement, it is not a ruse, it is not a charismatic arrangement. This is a provision, which is a provision in order to protect the public interest, not to raise any questions of hygiene and cleanliness to the municipalities throughout the country and even during the summer season. It is also a provision which follows from the debate we have had and with all the local authorities. I therefore believe that this is a provision which I hope will be supported by the whole of the Greek Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u62	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u63	In order for the parliamentary procedure to be correct, I am tabling a legislative amendment which has already been heard and which is likely to exist by other ministerial bodies, so that at the end of the title of the draft law after the word 'biodiversity' the words 'and other provisions' can be added. In any case, we will be following the parliamentary procedure and I will be voting on the amendment, even though I have already pre-empted our position. I'm making the legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u64	Minister, is this to be done under the title of the other bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u65	If amendments are added and accepted, yes. I don't want to predict the procedure. I said we would be absolutely consistent with these steps.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being followed by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber of the "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, twenty-three refugees from the social centre of CARITAS HELLAS. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Balaura, what are you saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u69	I want to say about the procedure, Mr President. Because the Deputy Minister for the Environment, Mr Famelos, obviously said from the voices of some of the parties' representatives, that he would not accept any parliamentary amendment. Unfortunately, Mr. Karras earlier said that recruitment and so on. These are amendments, Mr Famele, which solve many social issues. I've testified two. One is the possibility of these people who have been recruited - they are not new recruits, Mr Karras has left - in the ERCF so that they can do more work on the subject of special education schools. So, why should we be terrified? It is an excessive word, but I think Mr Famellos can make a choice and see the Members' amendments. Many of them solve major social problems. And we're here the instrument that can decide. So this is my call to Mr Famello and the government that we are legislating here. We don't have a Priori line that says there's nothing going on under voices. Nor were you present, Mr President, as I was, in the Conference of Presidents. The President of Parliament said about the reasoned use of the amendments. I mean, I don't get it. Aren't we going to solve serious social problems here, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u70	Good. The Minister has the floor, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, to support her amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u72	You'll all talk to everyone you want. First, the Minister must support her amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, following on from the amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Haritsis, and in the same spirit, I would like to present the amendment with a general number of 2227 and a special number of 241, which is exactly the same logic as the previous one, namely the continuation of the public administration and the safeguarding of the public interest, because it is precisely certain procedures which have either expired within the time that the country is going to take part in a pre-election period or on similar occasions. I'll be more specific. First of all, there were the secondments to various public bodies that had taken place until the beginning of the Central Single Mobility System. These secondments to public bodies expire on 28 June, i.e. they will be in the pre-election period, since there is the Prime Minister's statement that elections are to be called for, and at the same time, at the same time as the start of the pre-election period for municipal elections, the Central Mobility Committee has ceased to operate. So in order that there will not be a gap at the moment in a number of public services and for the continuity of the administration, with the first article in the paragraph, we propose to extend these secondments until 31 December of this year, namely 31 December 2019. The second provision relates to decisions taken by the Central Commission for Mobility for Posting and Transfers before the election period begins strictly and only in cases of public health and co-responsibility. And because these cases are of particular social sensitivity, and these people are in danger of staying for several months now, because these decisions have been taken before the municipal elections and the European elections, we would like these procedures to be completed strictly and only for the decisions taken by the Central Mobility Committee - I would remind you that it is chaired by Vice-President of the AACC, Mr Lascarato - for reasons of social sensitivity for co-service and health issues. The third case concerns cases where, as a parliament for the fire-fighting regions, we had made certain provisions on transfers - secondments by civil servants, who support the services of reconstruction and reconstruction in these areas, and in accordance with Parliament's approval to recruit firefighting workers. You know that these are some specific cases that are under way. Therefore, it concerns strictly the appointments and service changes, secondments and transfers provided for in the provisions on exceptional aid measures to support affected persons and to restore the damage caused by the fires, which affected the areas of Attica 23 and 24 July 2013. The next provision concerns municipal police officers. This is a story that - I think - all the wings of the House had agreed that it had to be completed. Here together with Mr. Minister for the Interior, Alexis Haritsis, we have tried very hard. You know that an amendment had been tabled last October, so that all these municipal policemen - who wanted and applied for - would return to the municipalities of the whole country. This was frozen until the end of March, until March 28, 2019, in order to have the provisional tables of a corresponding notice of 6K of the AACC, which concerned the penitentiary officials. This parallelism was made with the local policemen - who had already approved to return to the municipalities - not to leave a gap behind in the country's penitentiary, which you understand is a matter of public interest and security. Indeed, we were consistent. The AACC, in other words, took the provisional tables for the 6K penitentiary officials in March and before the deadline set by the amendment passed by Parliament in October. The provisional tables have been posted and the process has gradually begun by the Ministry of Justice - because there has to be a process of training the temporary penitentiary guards in order to take up their duties, and this has taken a two-month period - so that local policemen can gradually be released from various prisons and return to the municipalities. However, there was an exception to the municipal elections for municipal policemen because they wanted a process of signature by the municipal authorities to return. We could not have anticipated the call for elections, so that these people are in danger of being on the air now. In other words, the temporary penitentiaries now normally take over in prisons, the Ministry of Justice is liberating local police officers, the mayors who leave mayors can sign up until the end of August, but they cannot take over and remain part - we fear - in this election period. That is why - I have presented it with great care - I think it is a matter of social sensitivity to those - who had already frozen this return to the municipalities for eight months - but also, of course, to the public interest, because all these local policemen returning to the municipalities will naturally also contribute to the smooth functioning of the municipalities and of course to the proper functioning of the security. The next provision that this amendment has - because everyone is in this spirit of continuity of public administration and public interest - is that we have a series of all the public bodies of eighteen-month contracts, ending in July by the end of August, which relate mainly to cleanliness - in some areas too - to public services and ministries and at risk those people who contribute, work in ministries and public bodies. There we also had a commitment to bring in a provision - which we had already launched, since we had no elections, and we would also have a bill in June - so that there could also be a notice that can now be held permanent. This cannot, of course, be done in the run-up to the election. So in order not to find these people in the air and without prejudice to the mandate that the Greek people will give in the elections and any government will have the confidence to continue the operation of the public administration and to follow up on the issues of cleanliness and guarding in the ministries, what we are proposing within the framework of the law is that there should be an extension of six months so that there should not be a gap in the cleaning services offered by these contractual civil servants in the public sector and it is within the twenty-four months that the law provides anyway. So it's a pure act of continuity of administration. Finally, the last proposal concerns the evaluation system. Here, as you know, it is a system in progress. We have now restored confidence within the public sector. The phase of this evaluation on 30 June is under way and is completed. We have a broad involvement. This time the system will be completely electronized. In the assessment completed last October, we had a percentage of the people responsible for 24.5%, of whom 82% were electronic. Now, at this stage it'll be completely electronized. In this sense, we are making a regulation that no longer needs, in fact, unobjection, some initial arrangements of the evaluation system two years ago, which were to start the process and allow for the incentive and the possibility of involving. This has now been ensured both by trust and by the involvement of civil servants and above all by the electronic system. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u76	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u77	In order to fully cover the process, we also add to the settlement of the Agreement with Azerbaijan the words 'and other provisions', because the proposal that the two Ministers, interior and administrative reconstruction have just mentioned, will be added to the Azerbaijan Convention. So we're just changing the title. This is a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The Minister for the Environment has the floor, Mr. Dimitras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to fool anyone, nor to go through something for election, which you know very well. We know each other now. We had prepared a bill that had been passed on to the GSP for a long time. Inside there were a number of provisions, regulations, and regulations. We want the register to move forward and go very quickly because we have obligations both with the study offices and with the institutions, to end in 2021. That is what we wanted, and we have had a number of amendments to improve the operation of the register. Just because we feared this suspicion that exists between us when we clearly wanted to do positive things, because we thought we would have time to pass on all the amendments in the way they had to, within the body of the draft law, we have now said that we should go through those amendments that are absolutely necessary. So in relation to the amendment we have tabled under general number 2225 and special number 239, we are putting an amendment on the register and that is what I want to say. This amendment has, in other words, been limited by all the other issues that we want to regulate on three issues. One issue concerns changes in the annual budget that change the funds and go from one code to another. So what we are doing is that these changes can be made by the register itself and reduce bureaucracy. This is a purely functional issue of the Land register and one cannot tell us that some evil is being done because we are giving the Land register the opportunity to reduce bureaucracy, which is a request from all Greeks. The second point is that unforeseen payment may be made to persons moving within the region. We've got a lot of loose ends. Or they can't go at all or they can't be paid. The register must go ahead, we must make an autopsy in the region. It is no longer possible that we do not have the way in time to operate and until a new government is created, etc. To solve this problem. The third is the transfer of responsibilities and the register. These powers were also provided for and had by the OPCW, the Greek Stock Exchange Agency, and with them it solved individual technical issues. These responsibilities are given by the Minister to the Stock Exchange. How did that happen? They came to the Ministry, to me, and asked me for ministerial decisions, to correct errors between lands, because there was a difference in square meters. But is it possible that every case will come to the Ministry? How does the Minister know square meters or check topographic charts? These are tasks that need to be solved within the register. These three minor issues are resolved by this amendment, and I think it should be understood and voted on by everyone. I do not understand this problem of suspicion, that we are going to do something wicked. Let's go to the Greek people's problems. Mrs Kozobol has also brought an amendment. Mrs. Kozobol, I understand your problem. I don't know now what Mr. Famellos is going to decide on the draft bill. There are loose ends in the past, and if we do not make an extension of one year, these properties go to the Greek public. I consider it very important as a parliamentary amendment. In fact, of all the things I have read, I consider it the most necessary to ensure that property is not lost and that it comes to the Greek State. The Greek public doesn't need the fields in the villages. We need to figure out how to give the extension. I would therefore say, exceptionally, Mr Deputy Minister, Mr Minister, in this amendment brought by Mrs Kozobol, which is a very important issue and concerns Greek citizens, farmers, to make an exception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, because a report has been made, may I add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u82	Mrs Kozobol has the floor and Mrs Theopevettus follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I would like to explain on this amendment that it is not only that property will be lost because the presumption of the Greek State is valid when the deadline for correcting the first entries in the register is passed, but it is also the Greek State that has not claimed its property so far, that is to say, a request from the landlords throughout Greece. Therefore, the extension for a year, which in other cities in our country expires in July and in other cities in August, I think it is also necessary for the private property and for the property of the Greek public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u84	Mrs Theophevette, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, will those who have an amendment speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u86	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as amendments have been tabled, Members may also speak on the amendments for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u87	With a card in their speech, don't they do that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u88	When are we going to ask the ministers, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u89	Questions will be asked now. In fact, the ones who want to ask first are the ones who want to ask. Whoever you want, you can ask questions and get answers. Mrs Lyberakis, you will be given the floor later, as will you, Mrs Vayonakis. Here, Mrs Theophevettus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u90	I would like to make a brief comment on the view that the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection should not be accepted. I would like to say that as long as the parliamentary work is working and the House is open - because I do not understand why this House should not be open this week - I think they have the right, if not an obligation, to submit their proposals to the government. We cannot say that the Members' amendments will not be accepted and that they will only be accepted by the ministers. Please see those that are processed, because they are in the right direction and are not rousphetological, nor photographic. Please see them right! I shall then turn to my speech in detail and to the essence of what I have tabled. However, because there has been a great debate in the media too, I think that as long as parliamentary work is under way it is a democratic right and an obligation for Members to table their proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u91	Priority should be given to those who have questions and then to place them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u92	We then place ourselves in total, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u93	Mrs. Liberaki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u94	First, listening to the type of amendments - I understand both topical and urgent - I am truly crucifixing and saying that we did not go bankrupt earlier in that country, because where the civil servant is to be, the House has to decide, because no one can make a decision in the whole hierarchy. This is something I just wanted to share with you. I would, however, like the Ministers and the Ministers that bring us amendments - because, as I said, as far as Parliament is concerned, they have the right to do so, but I would like us not to go into this procedure - to answer a question. The question concerns which of the amendments, ladies and gentlemen, are related to gaps that have been created because of elections - and I understand that absolutely - and what the usual gaps are. Let's say now, at this time, we were going to make a decision on the cleaners in August. What are the reasons - let me ask you - the particular circumstances of the election period? I want us to know, to see what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Liberaki. Mrs Vagonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u96	I too wanted to agree, but I was covered by Mrs Theopontou that, since the House is open - and this House must be open - they have the right, as in all other cases, to table proposals and to have amendments. And I think that should be acceptable on the part of the government. This is a democratic task, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Vagonakis. Let us see a little, ladies and gentlemen, how we move on. I propose that those who have tabled parliamentary amendments and want to support them should now do so. In the end, the Ministers and the Ministers will be given the floor to answer what they are accepting or not, as they are entitled to, and to conclude. So everyone you want, you can take the floor. Mr. Simorellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I fully agree with what has been said a moment ago, but many of us have known since yesterday that the parliamentary amendments will not be accepted. Now a matter is being born here. I do not have any question with the Members who are ready to put the amendments, but another point is being raised, that we knew yesterday that the parliamentary amendments would not be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Simorellis. Mr. Cameroon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, we have tabled two amendments. Let the main ministers be judged, they are not photographic, they serve society as a whole. One concerns small watercourses, for which, when they are in archaeological site - as provided by the Law adopted in 2014 - a presidential decree is required to determine their limits. In other words, for a ditch of twenty points, if there is any near the floor, a presidential decree should come out for its delimitation. We therefore have one proposal for these small watercourses to be excluded from the adoption of a Presidential Decree. Furthermore, the whole procedure provided for in the legislation must be followed. The second is for the entire Dodecanese. In the Dodecanese, there is a register in force, something we have discussed here before. It was accepted by the ministers and they said we had to process it to bring it into a bill. It's processed and solved the following problem. From what you know, in the Dodecanese, in the islands of Rhodes, Kos and in part of Leros, it operates a Land register. However, with a real estate regulation taken by the Italians, it sets a 12-mile lane to determine the line of the hayalus and the beach and it does well, because it protects the environment even more from the other regions of the country. We are happy to have this restriction, but after the last bill has been passed, which strictens the conditions on the beach - and it does well - legal property is lost, which is registered in the Register, which is before 1948, i.e. before liberation. Finally, I will give you an example. There are stone houses, which are in this 12-meter strip, which now not only go out illegally, but lose their ownership. We have such monastic things, but we also have property. This regulation we are proposing excludes these legal old buildings from this requirement from adding 12 measures to determine the line of hayaloo and beach. If these colleagues, who are yelling here, consider them photographically, then what can I say? These have been processed for months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u101	Thank you. Mrs Vayonakis will now speak on the amendment, and then Mr Balaourras and Mrs Inglezi will take the floor. Mrs Vagonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment, which we are proposing, is neither a clientele nor a pre-election, but refers to a request that has all the local government bodies in Chania. It refers to the Transnational Company DATA, which operates under a programme contract and, in fact, we want a clarification on Law 4555/2018, which concerns the FODs. On the basis of this law, as this operation is interactive, the Court itself accepted that there would be no VAT in transactions between TENs and municipalities. That's why in the past, when a municipality went to pay, the Court of Auditors told him to get the money back. So now the DU, in its name that the company in question is a public limited company, is asking for VAT, which will lead to the economic strangulation of the company in question. That is why we are asking for a proposal to be added to Law 4555/2018 to clarify this regime and say that the programming contracts concluded by the FODs with a municipality - a member or the region in which they belong are not subject to VAT. In fact, we call for the provision of this subparagraph to be applied to programming contracts concluded from 19-7-2018, because the DU from that time onwards calls for this money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Vagonakis. Before we move on, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Minister of Culture and Sport, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Finance, the Deputy Minister, as well as the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development today tabled a draft law: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on certain permitted uses of certain protected works and other objects of protection under intellectual property rights and related rights for the benefit of the blind, ampoules and individuals with other problems of reading literature and amending Directive 2001/29/EC on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Balaurras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, as you know very well, the SYRIZA Members have a procedure where the amendments we have in mind are being tabled to our institutions. In addition to the relevant Minister, we have the parliamentary procedure. So today everyone was surprised - and you heard that, Mr Famele - because you have a position which overturns our own parliamentary procedure. Many colleagues have spoken of this. It is not considered wise what has happened before. Even the Undersecretary for the Environment pointed out a few necessities. I would like to say, therefore, that there are requirements that we have identified. This is the work of the MPs, Mr Famele. You've been a congressman. Members identify the problems in society. However, although the elections will take place exceptionally, the problems exist. They don't erase, but they're magnifying. You've been told about that by a number of people. I will tell you two examples: One is entitled 'Coverishment of Functional Needs'. The Centre for Educational Support, the ERCY says quite simply - I say it very briefly - that these people will help, at the same time, carry out duties for disabled people. So we go to a school and operate the school with the potential of each teacher and teacher, etc. At the same time, however, a child has problems. This kid, we take it and we help it in his life. So why is it absurd and not to accept it? It is completely absurd that you have taken the position. A second amendment concerns the following: There are workers who were in the country's half-wages and who provided services as mortgage guards. But when the fat cows ended, they gave up the mortgages at mercy. We had too many problems in Elias. But there were too many problems in other cities and towns in the country. They left the safe houses. So these people who stayed and for about three years were not paid at all, took all the work in society. In fact, the Legal Council of the State said that these people must be compensated at the same time, to cover their insurance rights. Thus, the state paid insurance rights. He had not paid up so far, but he had not paid any compensation for these people. Where is the absurd, Mr Famele, and ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition? They are, then, things that had to be done. I agree with you that it should have happened earlier. But the sudden process of appealing to the elections has come. These issues must therefore be resolved. It's very simple, Mr. Famele. I really don't know how those who gave the order thought that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. I'm taking the floor for very little. I have not tabled any amendments. But with what I've heard, we'll forget what we know. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament's amendments also have certain procedures. There is a Rules of Procedure which says that it does not accept delayed and unreasonable amendments. You'll tell me we've never implemented it. But do not spoil so much and in the last few days that the House is open, we bring fifteen amendments to the House and demand that the Ministerial Council accept them. That's what I wanted to say. I think that's the point of what Mrs Liberaki said. All right, one - two ministerial amendments to accept them for the continuation of the state etc. We cannot, however, remember all the amendments we had in mind to bring them in and bring them forward now and the Minister also wants them to be accepted. Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u107	Thank you. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u108	Is the process over?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u109	No, it's not over, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u110	I mean from the amendments to answer that and the amendments that have been made...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u111	No, it's not over yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u112	It's not over! We've got issues. We are parliamentarians and you have to answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u113	Allow me, Mr President, even though this is your responsibility. I have asked the President if Members have finished with the amendments. This placement procedure is over or not, so I can answer it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u114	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u115	I said it because I didn't see a hand coming up. Good, I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u116	Mrs. Iglezi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. I have tabled an amendment concerning the placement of activities on agricultural land. It really seeks to supplement an omission that has been a long time, because, when it became the general town and town planning of the municipalities or the general spatial planning, there was not the activity of brewery in Greece on a small scale, that is, only the major brewery industries. We know very well and we all see that small breweries are being developed throughout Greece lately, but they cannot be separated in most areas of the country, because breweries are not foreseen, not forbidden, but forbidden. So the amendment I am proposing is where wines are intended - an activity which is due to almost all regions, because of the fact that this country is a wine producer - we also have an interest in brewing. I think it is an amendment that solves the problem for many people who are waiting to get the permits to set up a small enterprise in the agricultural sector and gives income to the farmers themselves, but also to the region, so that this problem can be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Iglezi. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, ten students and students and an educational attendant from the Elementary School of Kastelios Pedados. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Karakosta has the floor and Mr Papadopoulos then.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u119	I have tabled an amendment to the effect that, because it is often intended to say that we are making a breakthrough, I have to say that this is an area that is not even in its constituency. Since, as an architect and a peasant, I deal with these issues, it fell to my understanding that in Zone I of Aegean the delimitation that exists today is really on a case-by-case basis, does not have any sense of spatial planning. So, we had our own industrialist? We were taking the limit line there. Didn't we? We were taking her somewhere else. This has been the case so far. If we really want to study these zones, first of all, we need time in front of us to conduct a substantial study, but that is where they are legally established before the designations and demarcations. It is possible today, in the context of the crisis, to burden the industries that exist, by relocation in a very short time and, furthermore, not to allow them to develop, that is, correcting, developing machinery, etc.Huh? So without wanting to change anything, I think that time is necessary both for these industries and for us, as a state, to be consistent with investors and to design not on a case-by-case basis, but as a whole. So this amendment gives time to us, not only to craftsmen or industries, to prevent the state - whether with us or with someone else - and to actually be able to plan effectively and not on a case-by-case basis. It is precisely the opposite of what we are accused of today in relation to the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Karakosta. Mr. Papadopoulos from Trikala has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing an unprecedented process. The government has announced that the end of the government's work would be at the end of its constitutional term. However, the result of the elections has created another situation. The Prime Minister had already announced the government's intentions, but on the New Democracy side and, unfortunately, the Change Movement is saying the following strange argument: the government's work is over, the parliamentary process is over. That is why we need to have a debate on what issues, as long as the parliamentary procedure lasts, are mature to talk about them in substance. I make a request to the ministers. Let us see the issues on the ground. It is not possible to think that mature is everything that the ministers are thinking of and that is not mature is all that is being proposed by Members. I make a request to the representatives of the river. Ladies and gentlemen, if you respect - and you do so - the parliamentary procedure, please put it on the substance. What do you think are the amendments, which are in line with the resolution of the House on mature issues, which must be resolved until the elections are opened? I call on this and think that I am actually going to the issues that we have before us today, tomorrow and Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. Mr. Papaphippipou has the floor and Mrs. Theopevettus has the floor later. Mr. Papaphippippi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u123	I am referring to the amendment with a general number of 2222 and a specialist of 236. It concerns urban regulations, namely the amendment and addition of two provisions of the General Building Regulation. It is with this amendment that urgent issues, which, if resolved in the way they are proposed, will give development prospects to our country. In particular, one of them refers to buildings which, according to the general plan, are to be opened up but have not been opened up to date under the current legal regime. As an exception to these buildings, some work is planned, as well as a change of use. This amendment clarifies the work which can be carried out and which is absolutely necessary in order to serve the use to be chosen and compatible with the general tariff plan. The other is also very important because it concerns buildings that have been declared new monuments and are permitted by decision of the Minister of Culture to use them as a hotel, as buildings, that is to say, temporary accommodation. There are too many of these buildings and they are at risk of being dismantled, with collapse, at the expense of our cultural heritage. Here also provides for the addition of a subparagraph, according to which there will be no calculation of the building coefficient of certain spaces necessary to serve the use, which I mentioned above, and when they are located in the basement. On these issues is the amendment and it is imperative - I insist that neither small interests nor rhysphetological are served - in view of the summer period as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u124	Thank you. Mrs Theopevette has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. The first amendment is the non-proliferation of ownership rights by the public as a whole on the Ionian Islands. There is a specific regime, and at the moment the meaning of this amendment goes unequivocally. Four judgments have been delivered by the Supreme Court of the Ice Bay, and that is why it is obvious. And, of course, the result is to trouble the citizens of five, seven and ten years to prove that the forest is private. The other one is self-evident. There is a change, a correction of error, in my view, in the conditions for building traditional settlements. In other words, a height of one and a half and a 30% of the roof gradient has been imposed, which is technically impossible to build. It's functionally wrong. It's called mastists and engineers. It's a mistake, and it needs to be changed. It's completely self-evident. The other is the abolition of a paragraph which was an obstacle to lifting the rymotomic expropriation or freezing of property after 15 years, which no municipality has taken over so many years of responsibility for not having committed the property. The other two are arrangements for earthquakes, both in Kefalonia and also in Fokida and Phthiotida. I think that their meaning is, on the one hand, self-evident and, on the other, to note, Mr Mavroy, that yesterday the programme of the Conference of Presidents was notified this week. These amendments were to be tabled to the next bill of the Ministry of the Environment on residential densities, which, unfortunately, was simply tabled and will not go to the committees and to the plenary. There's no other reason. That's why I've testified them since yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u127	Here, Mr. Papaphippipou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u128	I would like to remind Mr Famello that this amendment was embedded in the bill on residential density, which was to be tabled, which, unfortunately, was not tabled because of the speeding up of the elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u129	As far as I can see, there are no other speakers. Mr Stathakis, Minister for Development, was asked to follow Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and Mr Famelos will be closed. Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u130	First of all, I would like to make it clear that most of the provisions discussed exist in the bill submitted by the Ministry of Environment and Energy concerning three areas: planning, environment and energy. Most of them, I repeat, exist in the body of the bill. There was a process, which had the time element, which is important. In the light of this, some options have been made. You have the two urban regulations in your hands, which are tabled as ministerial amendments. One concerns the urgent theme of the relocation of the Greek Maritime Research Centre by the Greek in the area of ELKETHA in Agios Kosmas, on a plot of ownership in Anavyssos, Attica. So this relocation regulation that is urgent to liberate the Greek, I keep it. I withdraw the other provision, which is also mature with approval and after a long period of time from the CEEC. It is the first article of the amendment, which can return, despite its maturity and its wider consensus, because it solves serious problems. I think, however, that the urgency of the PPE Group should be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u131	Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reply to the questions that have been put for the two amendments we have tabled together with the Minister for the Interior, Mr Haritsis. I should also like to thank Mrs Lyberakis for her very constructive and parliamentary position. I must, of course, give further clarification to the issues that have been raised. The first amendment to which the Minister for the Interior has referred in detail - which had an important obligation, and which is not at this moment - relates to 'famous', as he said, a 3K communication, namely the cleanliness to the municipalities by means of compensation fees. This week we have the final tables of the AACC. I would like to clarify, so that there is no uncertainty in this House, that it has been exempt from the parliamentary elections, that is to say, it is actually going on. Just what does the amendment do? From the time the final lists are posted, they spend a few days until these people take over - they can of course do so with the exception of the relevant legislation and in the course of an election call - service. So there is a risk that there will be a gap in the cleanliness of the municipalities, as temporary workers in cleanliness automatically stop. What does the layout say? That the temporary, which has been operating for over a year, is a matter of days, that is to say, until, according to the final tables, posted this week, the permanent officials of the municipalities are on duty. He's got an exception to the election call. It covers this gap of a few days, which happens to exist, the legal substance, so that there is no problem for the municipalities throughout the country. It's purely a matter of public interest and public health. Now, as far as the second amendment is concerned, I will briefly mention the specific individual arrangements that are for the continuation of public administration. The first is, as I said before, for the secondments that already exist since the pre-mobility period to the various public bodies, which expire on 28 June. In view of the fact that there will be an election call, and given that the Mobility Committee, in terms of secondments and transfers, has been working for a month and will no longer be working throughout the election period, and possibly even some time, depending on the results, and that there is no gap in the services that these people offer to public services, since the services themselves want to renew their secondment, we are giving the possibility of extending until the end of the year until 31 December. On the second topic of the second amendment, on cases where the Central Commission on Mobility under the chairmanship of the Vice-President of the AACC, before all this process of municipal elections goes ahead, and now the forthcoming parliamentary elections, it has approved certain cases which are social - humanitarian - that is to say, cases of health transfers, according to the law - and these results have already been obtained - and also the service of civil servants, who are 'frozen' because there is no such provision, for social reasons, and so that it can be completed after the decision has been made, this second provision comes to the amendment. The third provision, which I mentioned once again to avoid any doubt, relates to service-related changes - secondments, transfers - to the fire-fighting municipalities. You know very well that they've been declared in a state of emergency. I'm talking about the municipalities in the Attica region that since last summer have been in a state of emergency. In order to avoid any ambiguity about secondments that are under way, of service, and that is also at the request of these municipalities, because it is on a process of reconstruction and reconstruction - for reasons of clarity - we say: as well as the recruitment of the firefighters who, according to the law ratified by the House, can be recruited and already carried out, just so that these people can go to their services and operate. As far as the municipal police are concerned, I think that I referred in detail before my report, which in any case had an exception to the pre-election period of the municipal elections, but were not provided for in the final phase of the election campaign, as we could not know. There I repeat that the Ministry of Justice has already taken over from March, now ending the training period the penitentiary officials of the provisional lists posted by the AACC, and they are already gradually taking over in detention stores, in prisons in the country, and now gradually released by the Ministry of Justice, local police officers to return to the municipalities, and there is this fear, until the mayors are making the formal procedure until the end of August, in order for these people to be put back in municipal police officers - something they of course want - to stay 'in the air', that is to say, to have been released from prisons, but that they cannot be presented to the municipalities in the country. This is also a matter of continuity in terms of public administration, of course both the public interest and security. Finally, the provisions for the evaluation that I told you that they existed at the beginning of the procedure, which is now fully electronic, and this phase will be completed on 30 June, are also, following a government commitment and an equivalent request from the AEDC. These are regulations which are now inactive and do not need to be assessed as the involvement, confidence of public officials has now been fully restored, and much more, the electronic evaluation system, and for that reason, for the complete completion of this process, in line with the request of the AEDEN, we are also proposing this arrangement. I hope I have been explanatory to your remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Minister. Mr Famelos has the floor, who waited patiently in his turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u134	Alas, Mr President. I'll be here for the whole conversation, and whatever I need I can take the floor again. Ladies and gentlemen, an issue has indeed been created and it is important to clarify it. I believe that we will make this absolutely clear within the limits that allow us to discuss this in the House. It is the duty and the right of Members to carry out the parliamentary work, both on parliamentary control and on the parliamentary procedure for making amendments and voting on bills. None of us would ever think of questioning both the right and the duty of Members. This process will obviously be implemented until the last day when the President of the Republic announces the special election procedure. The Prime Minister has already announced his intention on Monday to visit the President of the Republic and we will all obviously expect the formal constitutional and democratic processes. I mentioned in my first speech - and not as a person, but let me also tell you as a representative or by proposing the sanctions on the part of the government - that the government's attitude this week and until Parliament's dissolution will support the continuation of parliamentary work, it will support the completion of regulations that benefit society and we have been working on for a long time. Indeed, in the light of the fact that we had plans for elections in September - early October, perhaps some bills have not been prepared or had no time to discuss and of course the government's attitude in this House next week is to protect both the government and Parliament. I mentioned this in my introductory position, because, as you would have seen here today, there is unfortunately a misappropriation on the part of political spaces and parties in the opposition with the sole aim of affecting the electorate. However, only the electorate will judge the continuation or not of the work of the government, because the polling of the European elections did not consider any question relating to the continuation of the government's operation. It was a political choice for the Prime Minister and the Government to announce the appeal to the President of the Republic. The priority of all of us - and allow me, but now I am not talking about all the representatives of the citizens, but about the SYRIZA and the government - is to support the government and SYRIZA in order to continue the work carried out in recent years, a project for which the Greek society has bleeded, we are all pressed and pressed for Greece to come out of the crisis and to carry out a work that is for the benefit of the citizens and for the benefit of the entire Greek society. Obviously it is our duty to protect our country so that we do not go backwards, not to lose sacrifices, not to exert policies against the citizens. From this point of view, therefore, it has been chosen not to accept the introduction to the vote, not to the parliamentary procedure, of parliamentary amendments to the debate on the two sanctions, because it is a procedure for the protection of the Government and Parliament, so that, if you like, we can call for the maximum safeguarding of the benefits and judgments of the citizens in the elections that are coming. We must therefore protect her from misappropriation of criticism. That's what I said in the first place I had in here. We must protect it as far as possible against the badly critical ones. Take a look at some specific evidence. In ratification of conventions on biodiversity and environmental cooperation with Azerbaijan, can the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy place and accept parliamentary amendments on education, on a matter of public revenue, VAT, on property issues? You understand that the very least I could ask - and personally let me say this - is the presence of the competent colleagues and their position on these amendments. However, because a higher degree of protection is needed, precisely in order to maximise the benefit of the Government and Parliament and the parliamentary procedure, I would suggest that we follow another procedure. The Members' proposals may obviously be tabled by the parliamentary procedure, Mr President, and I do not underestimate this, but the parliamentary amendments to the current sanctions procedure will not be accepted, and that is precisely why we must not go into the hypothesis so that it does not open up a debate which is of no benefit to anyone. But there are parliamentary procedures in the next two days. With the agreement of the Ministers proposing these matters, they will be able to be introduced, if the Ministers and the Government so decide, as ministerial amendments or in any other procedure. However, you will allow me to maintain the government's initial position in order to protect the government and the House in order not to open any windows, respecting the position that I have made at the beginning of this choice. There can be one or two amendments on the main issues of our Ministry, which could be positive. That would, however, open up a debate on the amendments by the other ministries which would not be positive and which we could not support here. So you understand that this will not improve the parliamentary procedure and work, but obviously it does not underestimate or minimize the right and duty of Members to exercise parliamentary procedure and to submit amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u135	How do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u136	How?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u137	So I repeat: to the relevant ministers, with the agreement of the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u138	But they've been approved by the relevant ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u139	... and with the characteristics of the immediate, because there is some time-consuming evidence to submit each amendment at this time, please continue the process for the next few days. As far as the ministerial amendments which have been tabled in total are concerned, there are so far - as far as I can say by creating a summary - two amendments to the agreement with Azerbaijan and they are the two to which Mr Haritis and Mrs Xenogiannakopoulou referred and signed by Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Juliarakis. There is one amendment, which Mr Dimitras presented, which concerns me and Mr Stathakis and a second amendment, which Mr Stathakis presented. This is why the titles of the two sanctions have been legally amended. With regard to the amendment I have with Mr Dimitras and Mr Stathakis, this also concerns an issue that has not been mentioned, because it is my responsibility to report on the substance now. It has to do with extending timelines for forest maps. This extension expires on 27 and 28 June and you understand that it is compulsory to extend as a result of the election process. It can only be done by a decision of the House, and this has indeed been legislated so that no extensions are given at will. It is about specific areas that I have to say so that the citizens are also aware of. These are the eastern and western Attica, the Cyclades, Drama, Magnesia, Karditsa and few very small municipalities from the areas of Thessaloniki and Kozani. It's about 4% of Greece. Because we have often discussed extensions, in order to avoid misunderstanding, the extension of the suspension of forest maps is not the original forest maps posted in 2017. The process for 50% of the country has already been completed and the maps have been validated to 45%, but for each part posted an extension is given once or twice and close. Many people have asked me electronically whether they are constantly open to the suspension process. No, we already have a sanction. Central Macedonia has already ratified, for example, the highest percentage of forest maps that exceed 95%. That's the one adjustment. The second regulation concerns more specificity, Mr Mavrota. It's about who's licensed the waste plants. Since too many recycling and utilization projects have been accumulated in the Decentralised Administrations services, it is clear that both the Environmental and Spatial Planning Directorates of the Region concerned and the relevant Environmental Service of the Regional Unity have the opportunity to approve them. It's completely functional. It does not amend anything in the institutional framework or the study obligations or anything else, if you wish. In addition, a regulation which is particularly important - and I close with that, Mr President - concerning the debate today is a matter for the forests. There was a debate and some colleagues have already been put on the draft bill and tabled to the House on housing and other environmental management arrangements. It was actually tabled on Friday in fact having a great process of suspension and consultation. I would remind you that this bill has completed the public consultation in January. There was a decision of the Council of State then. We have chosen to post it by formally tabling it in the House now, as if it were ready to enter the parliamentary procedure, and because it is a mature and complete work of three years on the forest maps, which we want it to be a state reserve now and we want it to be judged by the citizens in the forthcoming elections, we are saying so clearly. We have completed arrangements to solve problems that have been created for forty years either by a posterior policy or by a lack of political will by many in our country. But we understand that such an important regulation cannot enter the House. So the issues of housing density, terrestrial and other arrangements are not going to be discussed. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] The only regulation that has been chosen to enter the debate is an article, which we consider to create and restore citizens' exchange rates throughout Greece, which concerns the forested fields, from Laconia to Ioannina and from Patmos to Rhodope. What's the feature? Areas that were agricultural in 1945 and abandoned because of police, immigration or other conditions were forested, proprietary, clearly proprietary, without any question of involvement with the presumption of public ownership or with the interests of the public. These fields that were forested if they had been forested for forest purposes could be cultivated again. And, indeed, they could be based on the titles and any other activity chosen by the owner. However, if they had been forested, nothing could be done because of this legislation's rate-rate deficit. Finally, we see now that the forest maps are far more than possible evacuations. And I must tell you that the forest balance already gives the whole country that we have reached 62% of Greece's area to be a forest area. Therefore, having sufficient data on forest balance, without underestimating the forest balance and because these areas are at least twice as high as the extremists - it is something else that has been proven: those who have been unawares of agricultural activity are less than those which have been forested - we are therefore proposing, without undermining the forest balance and without questioning any element of public ownership, since they are documented and it must be demonstrated that these areas are proprietary, are land of the past which must be shown to have been owned and cultivated, so if it is either forest area or it is created at a rate, we have the same regulation and can only be used for agricultural cultivation up to thirty acres, with the necessary technological study. Why is that so? I will give you an example which has given us too much concern. One of the areas of privileges, which has been degraded and cannot be used, is the area of the vineyards of Zitsa. There, then, areas with this traditional characteristic, if it were forest land, could become a vineyard and have a competitive product, while it was a forest that could not be done. This is only resolved on limited areas, with a technological study approved by the Forestry, so that there are no windows and equal procedures. However, this was in any case in the bill which was passed by the Central Committee of Legislative Control, by CENE, it has been posted, it is not something which is a partial regulation and a "photographer". And she is the only one from the bill, which, along with the extensions, is introduced into the discussion process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u140	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is adjourned: 'Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Azerbaijan on the protection of the environment and other provisions', and their vote will be taken separately. We would point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, two articles, two amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest must roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for the principle of the bill, all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u141	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u142	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u143	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Azerbaijan on environmental protection and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: 'Following the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable distribution of the benefits arising from their use, the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity and other provisions', and their vote will be taken separately. We would point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, three articles, two amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u145	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u146	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u147	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Following the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and the right and equal sharing of the benefits arising from their use, the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity and Other Provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u149	The House therefore granted the authorization requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-05-S1-commons.u150	With the consent of the House at 16.46' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 6 June 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, legislative work: (a) the only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: (b) the only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Structuring the Code of Criminal Procedure", according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
